""Our Journey  Forward 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report   Forward Looking Statement This report, made by AEP and each of its Registrant Subsidiaries (the “Registrants”), contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934. Many forward-looking statements appear in “Energy Transition,” but there are others throughout this document which may be identified by words such  as “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will,”""
""generation capacity and the performance of generation plants. •  The ability to recover fuel and other energy costs through regulated or competitive electric rates. •   The ability to transition from fossil generation and the ability to build or acquire renewable generation, transmission lines and facilities (including the ability to obtain any  necessary regulatory approvals and permits) when needed at acceptable prices and terms, including favorable tax treatment, and to recover those costs. •""
""New legislation, litigation or government regulation, including changes to tax laws and regulations, oversight of nuclear generation, energy commodity trading and new  or heightened requirements for reduced emissions of sulfur, nitrogen, mercury, carbon, soot or PM and other substances that could impact the continued operation, cost  recovery and/or profitability of generation plants and related assets. •        The impact of federal tax legislation on results of operations, financial condition,""
""cash flows or credit ratings. •    Timing and resolution of pending and future rate cases, negotiations and other regulatory decisions, including rate or other recovery of new investments in generation,  distribution and transmission service and environmental compliance. •  Changes in technology, particularly with respect to energy storage and new, developing, alternative or distributed sources of generation. •     The ability to recover through rates any remaining unrecovered investment in""
""generation units that may be retired before the end of their previously projected useful lives. •  The impact of changing expectations and demands of customers, regulators, investors and stakeholders, including heightened emphasis on environmental, social and  governance concerns. The forward-looking statements of the Registrants speak only as of the date of this report or as of the date they are made. The Registrants expressly disclaim any obligation to  update any forward-looking information,""
""except as required by law.  We are pleased to share the latest progress on  American Electric Power’s sustainable business  practices, strategy, performance and impact.  The 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report, Our  Journey Forward, provides an overview of AEP’s  sustainable growth strategy, which is focused on  an affordable, reliable and just energy transition;  environmental compliance and stewardship;  employee well-being and engagement; social  justice and equity; and strong and effective""
""corporate governance. This report marks our 18th  year of providing a comprehensive view of AEP’s  progress as a business and community partner,  reflecting our longstanding commitment to  stakeholder engagement, transparency and long- term value creation. This report covers calendar  year 2023 unless otherwise noted. Internal Assurance AEP Audit Services performed a limited review of selected performance  statements and disclosures within the 2024 AEP Corporate Sustainability  Report. Financial""
""purpose, to deliver safe, reliable and affordable electricity to meet customers’ needs, is supported by its strategy for sustainable  growth.  The Board regularly engages with management to oversee the company’s sustainability efforts and disclosure. The Board requests and receives frequent  reports from management about the company’s sustainability initiatives and regularly discusses these issues including safety and health, human capital  management, climate-related risk, culture and""
""inclusion, and cyber and physical security at Board meetings and Board committee meetings.  The AEP Board of Directors has assigned responsibility for overseeing the company’s sustainability initiatives and disclosures to the Board’s Committee on  Directors and Corporate Governance (the Committee). The 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report integrates financial with sustainability reporting to provide  a comprehensive view of AEP’s forward-looking strategic commitment to our customers, employees,""
""investors and communities that we serve, as well as a  transparent review of our performance in these commonly recognized sustainability measures. Stakeholders have expressed support and appreciation for  AEP’s leadership with this integrated approach to corporate reporting, as well as the company’s commitment to transparency and engagement. The Committee  fully supports this approach.  The 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report provides cohesive, proactive disclosure for our stakeholders. AEP’s""
""internal Audit Services team performs a  limited review of selected company performance statements within the Report. This year’s Report includes the company’s ESG Data Center, which houses  approximately 250 of the most relevant metrics AEP is commonly asked to disclose; and AEP’s strategic vision for long-term sustainable growth which is  focused on a reliable and affordable transition to a low-carbon economy for our customers and communities. The Committee believes the 2024 Corporate""
""Sustainability Report  provides a clear presentation of AEP’s strategy and performance.  The Board has emphasized that management will continue to be  evaluated by its success in executing the company’s strategic plan,  including its ability to respond to changing sustainability-related  risks and opportunities. Sara Martinez Tucker Chair of the Board Sandra Beach Lin Chair of the Committee on  Directors & Corporate Governance 04 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report  About AEP Energy""
""Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP  07       Message from AEP’s President & CEO 10  Chief Sustainability Officer’s Message 13      AEP’s Business Strategy 14     Responsible Business Practices 15       Monitoring Sustainability-Related  Risks & Opportunities 16    Stakeholder Engagement Governance 79   Sustainability Governance 83   Ethics & Compliance 85         Risk Management 87     Political Engagement 89        Enterprise Security Data &""
""Reports 96   ESG Data Center 119   ESG Reports & Policies Energy Transition  21    AEP’s Shifting Generating Portfolio 26         Modernizing the Grid 30        Climate Governance 30  Certifying GHG Targets 31       Just Transition 32      Electrification 33      Reducing Our Own Energy         Consumption Environment  35     Environmental Compliance 36    Biodiversity 40        Water Use & Management 41      Waste Management Social 45     Customer Care & Support 51     Environmental""
""& Social Justice 53      Economic Impact 57     Community Support 59   Supply Chain Management Our People 63  Workforce Planning & Development 63     Career Development 66  Focus on Future Talent 68       Caring for Our Workforce 69     Safety & Health 74      Culture & Inclusion Table of Contents 62 06 78 20 96 34 44 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 05  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP About AEP At AEP, we are in the business of""
""providing our customers with comfort and  convenience – all through the flip of a switch. Whether it’s keeping homes warm  during cold winter nights or electric vehicles charged and ready for the morning  commute, we are committed to delivering this essential service in a safe, reliable,  affordable and environmentally compliant manner. 07    Message from AEP’s President & CEO 10  Chief Sustainability Officer’s Message 13      AEP’s Business Strategy 14     Responsible Business Practices 15""
""Monitoring Sustainability-Related Risks & Opportunities 16     Stakeholder Engagement  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports Message from AEP’s President & CEO Dear Stakeholders, It’s no secret that the electric utility industry is undergoing transformational change. What is not changing,  however, is our purpose to provide customers with safe, reliable and affordable electricity. Caring for our  customers requires working with regulators,""
""policymakers, investors and other stakeholders at a time of a  broader transition to a low-carbon economy. Our challenge is to balance the increasing demand for cleaner  energy with the need to maintain a diverse portfolio of resources to respond to unprecedented growth. We  believe we can deliver on our purpose and reduce our own environmental impact in the long term, as long as our  customer focus remains constant. I am stepping back into the familiar role of CEO as AEP is undergoing our own""
""also  enables economic diversification that positions our  communities to be more competitive in a global  economy.  Additionally, we made progress on our ongoing  efforts to simplify and de-risk our business profile  through portfolio management. We completed  the sale of our 1,365 MW unregulated renewable  portfolio and will use the sale proceeds to  2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 07  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP strengthen our""
""regulated businesses and our  balance sheet. We also advanced our regulated  renewables investment plan and have received  regulatory approval for $6.6 billion of new  renewable projects throughout AEP’s service  territory, representing a 70% achievement of our  current five-year, $9.4 billion regulated renewables  capital plan.  While we made important progress, 2023 was a  challenging year for the industry. From unfavorable  weather, inflation, high interest rates, fuel price  volatility, and""
""supply chain constraints, AEP and  other utilities faced significant headwinds. We  operate in a capital-intensive industry, which is  necessary to support the growing needs of our  customers and communities. Modernizing the power  system requires significant investment to enable  new resources, implement the latest technologies,  improve reliability and resiliency, and facilitate the  two-way flow of information and electricity required  by a modern grid.  Although these headwinds were""
""with our regulators  to do so. The affordability of our rates has never  been more important – to our customers, regulators  and to AEP. That means we’ll continue to find ways  to work together more efficiently and keep costs  down. We also remain committed to achieving our  greenhouse gas reduction goals, including our 2045  net-zero target. It won’t be a straight line to get  there as many external factors could, and likely will,  affect the path forward. Like our industry peers,  we will face""
""some hard decisions ahead but that  does not diminish our commitment to the energy  transition. In fact, it strengthens our commitment  to a low-carbon future. We are confident we can  balance the growing demand for cleaner energy  with ensuring reliability and affordability, while also  responding to the diverse needs of our customers  and communities. The future is promising for AEP  as we have a strong foundation from which to build.  I am committed to my role as Interim President and  CEO,""
""and I am confident that I can make a positive  Grounded in our values  and our commitment to  continuous improvement,  our employees will  continue to lead  AEP with agility and  perseverance. Their  inclusive and safety-first  mindset enables them to  support our customers  and each other while  continuing to meet our  commitment of delivering  long-term value to our  shareholders.” 08 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance""
""other  while continuing to meet our commitment of  delivering long-term value to our shareholders.  My personal priority is to ensure AEP’s employees,  customers, regulators and shareholders experience  a smooth transition to the next CEO as we continue  Our Journey Forward. Regards,    Ben Fowke, III  Interim President & CEO  American Electric Power 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 09  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP 10 • 2024 Corporate""
""Sustainability Report Chief Sustainability Officer’s Message   Change. Growth. Impact. At AEP, 2023 was a year of major change for our business, including managing economic headwinds, achieving  record economic development in our 11-state service territory, and seeding lasting social impact in our  communities. I am pleased to share with you this latest chapter in AEP’s journey – our accomplishments and our  vision for equitably delivering safe, reliable and affordable electricity in a low-""
""carbon world. In so many ways, 2023 gave us an unprecedented view into the future. From the devastation caused by extreme  weather events and the growing demand for electricity, to bringing global supply chains closer to local business,  we are deepening our understanding of our impacts and our responsibility to a sustainable future. The foundation  is strong and our commitment to our customers, communities and investors is unwavering. And, proudly, our  employees are leading the way forward.""
""economy. Among them include data centers, a solar  panel plant, an egg carton producer, an EV battery  production facility and a massive liquefied natural  gas facility that will be first to use carbon capture  technology to reduce its carbon emissions by more  than 90%.  We are seeing the fruits of our labor to build strong,  healthy communities that are enabled by economic  diversification and growth and helped by efforts to  address basic needs. Our philanthropic giving is  another way we""
""help lift our communities. In 2023,  AEP’s total giving reached $31.7 million to support  local needs that include education, housing and food  security.  Our responsibility to customers requires balancing  the growing demand for electricity with a  mandate to protect reliability and affordability.  AEP’s five-year capital spending plan includes  major investments to modernize the grid and   About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports   with intentional""
""care for our employees, customers  and investors, as we make the grid more resilient  and our communities stronger. I invite you to read  AEP’s 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report to learn  more about our journey.     Sandy Nessing  Vice President & Chief Sustainability Officer  American Electric Power With every decision we  make, our commitment  is to consider how our  actions impact others. This  means listening, engaging  and being responsive –  traits that are core to our  culture and""
""reflect our  value of doing the right  thing every time.” expand our regulated renewable portfolio. These  new generation resources help to reduce our  environmental impacts while complementing our  existing generation portfolio. These resources,  together with technologies such as energy storage,  help us deliver on our promise to maintain reliable,  affordable service for all customers, enhancing the  grid’s resilience to climate-related risks. We have been on this energy transition path for""
""well over a decade; change has been measured  and steady over time, and the impact has been  significant. As we continue to work toward our  2045 net-zero greenhouse gas emissions goal,  we are moving at a pace that meets the diverse  resource needs of our customers and communities.  We appreciate our many stakeholders who hold  us accountable to being transparent and honest  about our challenges as much as we are about our  successes.  The growing demand for cleaner electricity will  continue""
""to pressure the entire system. The urgency  of reliability, resilience and affordability will set  the pace of transition. Success requires working  together to meet today’s energy needs in our states  while preparing for the future and recognizing it  may necessitate hard choices along the way.  Our purpose is to deliver safe, reliable and  affordable electricity to our customers. Our  responsibility is to do it sustainably and equitably,   2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 11  Energy""
""Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP AEP Overview OUR MISSION: Together, with our customers, we are redefining the future of energy and developing  innovative solutions that power communities and improve lives. OUR VISION: Powering a new and brighter future for our customers and communities. As of 12/31/23 12 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports AEP’s Business Strategy""
""At AEP, we are in the business of providing our customers with comfort and convenience – all through the flip of  a switch. Whether it’s keeping homes warm during cold winter nights or electric vehicles charged and ready for  the morning commute, we are committed to delivering this essential service in a safe, reliable, affordable and  environmentally compliant manner. This is reflected in our business strategy to deliver consistent and strong  performance; invest in our generation, transmission""
""and distribution operations; and advance the growth and  development of our employees to meet our customers’ needs and lead our energy transition.  Our commitment to our customers is deeply rooted in AEP’s culture. In 2023, we refreshed our company values  and cultural norms – guiding how our employees work with our customers and each other to enable a safe and  sustainable future. This also guides our corporate purpose and reinforces our commitment to creating long-term  value for all of our""
""diverse regulated resources to support the growing energy needs  of our customers. We’ve received approval to add more fuel-free renewable resources to serve our customers,  representing $6.6 billion of our planned $9.4 billion  regulated renewables capital plan. We also continue  to make progress on our strategy to de-risk our  business as we work through the final phases of  the sales process for the AEP Energy retail and AEP  OnSite Partners distributed resources businesses,  which is""
""expected to conclude by the end of the  second quarter.  Our strategy is focused on balancing our  energy transition efforts with customer capacity  needs, system reliability, resiliency, security  and affordability. The success of our strategy is  influenced by several factors, including market  conditions and demands such as inflation and  interest rates; fuel price volatility; weather; customer  preferences and usage patterns; economic growth;  new tax incentives to support clean energy; and,""
""state and federal energy policy positions. The  success is also highly dependent on our state  public utility commissions that are responsible for  regulating AEP’s operations to ensure our customers  have safe, reliable and affordable energy. We believe  it is more important than ever to continue to engage  with our regulators and policymakers to listen and  respond to their needs to ensure that our capital  investment strategy best serves our customers,  communities and investors.  2024""
""Corporate Sustainability Report • 13 Our Customers    •        We consider the customer   in all that we do •  We are reliable and easy  to work with •        We support the communities  we serve Each Other    •    Safety is core - our own  and others’ •         We say what needs to be  said and move forward as  one AEP •    We believe everyone  matters and celebrate our  differences Our Future    •     We are life-long learners,  we adapt, continuously  improve and innovate •      We align our""
""actions with  our words •  We create sustainable and  secure energy resources  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP 14 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report This will be key to our ability to execute our  strategy, especially as the demand for electricity,  including cleaner energy options, continues to  grow. In 2023, we saw growth in commercial  and industrial load, primarily driven by data  center development in Ohio and Texas and our""
""Fowke III, a member of AEP’s  Board of Directors and the former chairman and  CEO of Xcel Energy, Inc., was appointed interim chief  executive officer and president. His deep knowledge  of all aspects of the electric utility industry,  including operations, finance, regulatory policy and  sustainability, has been instrumental in helping  shape AEP’s strategy. He is well-positioned to lead  AEP forward while the Board conducts an external  search for a permanent successor. In addition, the  Board""
""appointed Sara Martinez Tucker as non- executive chair of the Board. Responsible Business Practices AEP is in the business of delivering safe, reliable and affordable electricity to our customers; that is  our purpose. Our ability to do this is dependent upon our financial success, as well as non-financial, or  sustainability, factors that can impact our operations, finances and reputation. Sustainability-related factors  such as safety, workforce development, economic growth, affordability of""
""Just Energy Transition – Keeping our customers, communities and  employees top of mind, we are committed to a safe, affordable and just transition as we continue to  deliver reliable energy. In partnership with our regulators, we will invest in modernizing our grid  while balancing fuel cost volatility and capacity needs with managing customer costs and impacts  to our communities as we make the transition to a cleaner energy economy.  Environmental Compliance & Stewardship – We are committed to""
""always complying with  applicable environmental requirements and being good stewards of natural resources.   Social Justice & Inclusion – We are committed to considering the social impacts of our operations  and decisions and putting mechanisms in place that provide access to cleaner and modern energy  options. This includes meaningful engagement with customers and communities to ensure fair  treatment and inclusive decision-making.  Governance & Oversight – We are committed to strong governance""
""practices that protect the long- term interests of our stakeholders. Leadership and governance are foundational to building and  strengthening sustained business value and ensuring transparency, fairness and accountability  while providing structure to ethically manage business operations.  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 15 For almost two decades, AEP has been monitoring  and managing sustainability-""
""related risks and  opportunities. We leverage insights from key  stakeholders, including investors, customers and  regulators, to identify non-financial risks and  emerging trends that could potentially have a  significant impact on our operations, finances and  reputation. We also assess the priorities of our  stakeholders through a materiality assessment of  sustainability-related issues.  In 2023, we conducted our first double materiality  assessment to identify not only material""
""sustainability issues that may impact our company,  but also issues where we have the potential to  impact the environment and society. We again  leveraged data-driven insights to scan the  sustainability landscape, including mandatory  regulations and voluntary sustainability standards;  industry priorities; general public opinion; and  direct stakeholder feedback from internal leaders  and external stakeholders. We continuously  monitor the shift in priorities through dynamic  materiality""
""analysis to track externalities that may  influence each issue along with shifting stakeholder  expectations and other societal and environmental  trends. These insights serve as an input for our  corporate strategy and a control for our risk  management process as well as the ways AEP  influences, impacts and manages broader socio- economic risks and opportunities.  Monitoring Sustainability-Related Risks & Opportunities AEP’s Priority Sustainability Issues  Based on 2023 Double Materiality""
""Assessment  •      Business continuity & crisis response •         Climate change risks & management •     Customer privacy & data security •      Cyber & physical security •     Energy reliability & resiliency •       Ethical corporate behavior •    Low carbon transition •         Management of legal & regulatory activity •     Safety & health •       Water management Listed in alphabetical order Defining Material Sustainability Issues  AEP defines material issues as those that reflect  our""
""most relevant environmental, social and  governance impacts and contributions because  they can:  1.      Have a significant impact on the company’s  finances and/or operations. 2.      Have or may have a significant impact on the  environment or society now or in the future. 3.   Substantially influence the assessments,  decisions and actions of our stakeholders. Leveraging Materiality Insights  •         Identify sustainability-related gaps, risks  and emerging issues to inform and advance""
""business priorities. •  Target and improve transparency and  disclosure.  •     Enhance stakeholder engagement. •       Reduce risk exposure. •         Ensure consistency across risk management,  Board oversight and annual reporting.  •    Understand link between inward and outward  impacts of an issue.  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP 16 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report Stakeholder Engagement Listening to and engaging with diverse""
""and performance. Additionally, stakeholder engagement serves as a proactive risk management  strategy, helping us identify and address potential risks before they impact our business.  We engage with our stakeholders on a variety of issues. While our approach to engagement varies by  stakeholder group, we are committed to fostering a transparent and candid dialogue about issues of mutual  concern. Our transition to a cleaner energy future continues to be a major issue of interest among many of""
""our  stakeholders. This complex and multi-dimensional issue touches almost every aspect of our business, which  requires us to engage with diverse stakeholders to share our path to a low-carbon energy future, as well as  the potential social and economic impacts to our local customers and communities. 2023 marked five years of engagement with Climate Action 100+. This is an important channel of  communication with stakeholders who are most focused on AEP’s path to net-zero. Climate Action 100+""
""is an  investor-led initiative with more than 700 investors representing $68 trillion in assets. Its primary focus is to  engage with large corporations on their efforts to reduce carbon emissions and climate risk. This engagement  gives us the opportunity to hear their concerns and priorities as an investor-led group while giving us a  platform to share our progress and the challenges we face on our decarbonization journey.  Whether we are retiring an asset or investing in new infrastructure,""
""such as transmission or renewable  facilities, our business has real impacts on people, the environment and local communities. We have to  balance the needs of our human, cultural and natural resources with our communities’ need for reliable and  affordable electricity. We have a long history of engaging with landowners and local communities about new  projects, including the needs, benefits, timelines and processes. We leverage a variety of channels including  mailings, door hangers, phone""
""Stuart Area  Understanding our sustainability-related risks helps  us identify gaps and emerging issues and prioritize  these issues in order to reduce risk exposure. It also  helps us better target and improve our disclosure  strategy by focusing on issues that matter most to  us and our stakeholders. AEP’s robust disclosure  strategy helps drive our goal of being transparent  and accessible.  Our disclosure includes an annual Corporate  Sustainability Report and ESG Data Center, which""
""features a three-year trend on approximately 250  of the most requested ESG metrics. In addition, we  publish several supplemental reports leveraging  guidance from voluntary reporting standards  and industry efforts to meet the unique needs of  our stakeholders. This includes Global Reporting  Initiative (GRI) and Sustainability Accounting  Standards Board (SASB) reports, which partially  aligns with the new International Sustainability  Standards Board (ISSB) and International Financial""
""Reporting Standards (IFRS) General Requirements  for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial  Information (S1); and CDP Climate, which  aligns with the ISSB Climate-related Financial  Disclosures (S2). In addition, we respond to multiple  ESG surveys, ratings and rankings, produce  industry-specific reports and complete EcoVadis’  Sustainability Ratings for Global Supply Chains.   About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports Improvements Project. The""
""proposed project would  upgrade, replace and modernize aging distribution  and transmission infrastructure to improve local  reliability and prepare for future load growth in  five surrounding counties. Following the public  engagement process, and after months of review,  the project team determined the proposed line  routes. In reaching a decision, the team reviewed  future land use, environmental impacts, and input  gathered during landowner meetings, community  open houses and virtual open""
""houses. Input from  the local community was essential to ensuring  the line-routing process considered all potential  impacts to the community.  We strive to enhance our inclusive engagement  efforts, which are outlined in our Environmental  and Social Justice Policy. This policy reinforces  our commitment to consider environmental and  social impacts when developing new infrastructure,  transitioning our generation fleet or deploying new  programs, services and technologies. The goal of  our""
""environmental and social justice efforts is to  ensure that we are providing ALL communities with  the opportunity to understand our proposed policies  and projects and discuss their concerns so that we  can fully consider the environmental, social and  health-related impacts of our decisions.  Learn more in the Environmental   and Social Justice section. 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 17  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP 18 • 2024""
""Corporate Sustainability Report Stakeholder Issues We Engage On How We Engage Employees •  Career development, training & advancement •    Workplace culture & inclusion •         Compensation & benefits  •      Safety, health & well-being •   Employee webcasts •     Employee Resource Groups •      Annual culture survey & action plans •  Performance review process •    Employee development, training & education •    Annual talent review & succession planning •    AEP Ethics & Compliance Concerns""
""Line Customers   Residential, Commercial  & Industrial •       Customer outages, bills, energy usage & payment assistance •    Public safety awareness •       Decarbonization strategy, emissions targets •   Electrification, EVs, energy management & solutions •   Site selection/property searches •      Reliability improvements •      Webinars, newsletters, social media •   One-to-one outreach •   Customer insight panels •       Advisory, relocation & site selection services •        EEI Customer""
""Carbon & Energy Report •   Resource plan stakeholder process •     Customer Call Center Regulators/Policymakers •  Energy transition, resource planning •  Energy reliability & affordability •    Environmental performance •     Energy management •     Electrification & EVs •         Emergency response •    Cyber & physical security •     Engagement with local, state & federal government •     Industry & trade association advocacy •         Regulatory proceedings •        Education forums &""
""conferences •        IRP stakeholder forums Investors •      Financial performance •         Climate risk & governance •     Decarbonization strategy •      Just Transition •       Annual meeting of shareholders •        Quarterly earnings calls •      Emails, phone calls, meetings & conferences •   ESG disclosure AEP’s Stakeholder Engagement Efforts  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 19 Stakeholder Issues""
""We Engage On How We Engage Investors (continued) •        Social issues (diversity, talent management, etc.) •    Cyber & physical security •     Political engagement & lobbying activities •    Incentive compensation & goal setting •         SEC filings •   Annual governance outreach with the Board Chair •       Ongoing engagement with ESG-focused investors •         Climate Action 100+ Suppliers •         Supply chain management •       Environmental, safety & health management •     Human""
""rights management •       Supplier diversity •    Supply chain resilience •       Supplier Code of Conduct •      Sustainability-related supplier surveys •       EcoVadis Sustainability Assessment •    Supplier Diversity Program •    Supplier education Communities •        Hunger & housing •      STEM education •        Diversity, equity & inclusion •         Economic development •  Community development •         Infrastructure siting •         Coal unit retirements & Just Transition •""
""Energy access & affordability •         Corporate giving & grants •     Employee volunteerism •         Economic development training programs •        Community task forces •         Public safety education •       Landowner & property owner open houses •        Townhall/community meetings •   IRP stakeholder process Non-Governmental   Organizations (NGOs) •       Resource Planning                                                      •        Carbon emissions •      Distributed energy resources""
""•  Electrification & EVs •         Energy efficiency •     Outreach via email, phone calls, meetings •     Regulatory proceedings (stakeholder forums tied to IRPs) •      Stakeholder meetings AEP’s Stakeholder Engagement Efforts (continued)  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP Energy Transition AEP has already made considerable progress toward reducing environmental  impacts by making significant investments in both fossil fuel generation and""
""renewables to deliver reliable, affordable energy to our customers and to strengthen  the resilience of the electric power grid. Keeping this focus front and center will  enable continued economic growth in our communities while addressing mandated  environmental compliance and climate-related risks. 21   AEP’s Shifting Generating Portfolio 26  Modernizing the Grid 30        Climate Governance 30  Certifying GHG Targets 31       Just Transition 32      Electrification 33      Reducing Our Own""
""Energy Consumption  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports Energy Transition Achieving a low-carbon economy by mid-century is a daunting challenge by any measure. It requires  technological breakthroughs; navigating and working with partners and regulators in long-standing regulatory  and market paradigms; and balancing investment across the power sector. AEP defines energy transition as  meeting the generation resource requirements of the states in""
""which it operates and the needs of customers  who it serves. We anticipate that some of our states and customers will require less carbon intensive generation  capacity and energy. AEP has already made considerable progress toward reducing environmental impacts  by making significant investments in both fossil fuel generation and renewables to deliver reliable, affordable  energy to our customers and to strengthen the resilience of the electric power grid. The increasing frequency  and severity""
""of extreme weather events in AEP’s service territories have affected the level and duration of  customer outages. While much work remains to transform the energy sector, the pace of progress ultimately  will be determined by the need for reliability, resilience and affordability. Keeping this focus front and center will  enable continued economic growth in our communities while addressing mandated environmental compliance  and climate-related risks. In recent years, record-breaking severe""
""weather events have tested the resilience of the grid and exacted  a significant financial and human toll. For example, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric  Administration, 2023 was the single hottest year on record to date – fueled by a strong El Niño weather pattern  that contributed to a massive heat dome over the South, Midwest and Great Plains. Following back-to-back  severe storms in 2023, the electric grid experienced significant damage that left nearly a half million""
""customers  in four states in AEP’s footprint without power. AEP is adapting its business practices and standards to these  changing weather patterns to build a stronger, more resilient and reliable grid.  AEP’s Shifting Generating Portfolio AEP has been on a long journey to transition its fleet while keeping in mind local and state energy policy and  reliability. Since 2011, AEP retired, converted to natural gas, or sold approximately 14,000 MW of coal-fueled  generation with more than 4,100 MW""
""of additional coal plant retirements or fuel conversions expected by the end  of 2028. Among the catalysts for this transition are the costs to comply with environmental regulations, aging  infrastructure and fuel price volatility. We will continue to make prudent investments in the five remaining plants  to ensure compliance with all environmental, safety and health mandates as these coal units are essential to  maintaining the reliability of the grid. AEP’s generation investments will be""
""dictated by federal and state law and  the needs of our customers without compromising reliability, resilience or affordability.  Consequently, we are taking a hard look at what  is needed to ensure 24/7 dispatchable generation  and delivery of electricity. AEP has identified 20  gigawatts of new generation opportunities over  the next decade. This will likely be a combination  of renewables, natural gas generation and storage  to complement our existing generation portfolio. In  addition, the""
""industry is faced with new demands  from regional transmission operators (RTOs) to  have higher levels of capacity in reserve. Having a  diverse resource portfolio is essential to a low- carbon future, enabling the industry to navigate the  changing dynamics of supply and demand as well  as the broader economy seeks to electrify. AEP’s renewable energy portfolio continues to  grow as our investment strategy for cost-effective  regulated renewables gains approval from our  state regulators. Our""
""current 2024-2028 capital  investment plan, derived from AEP’s Integrated  Resource Planning analyses, includes $9.4 billion  of regulated renewable projects. To date, we have  received regulatory approvals for approximately  $6.6 billion of these projects. In addition, federal  tax credits for renewable generation have been  extended which significantly reduces the costs of  these projects.  2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 21  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance""
""Data & Reports About AEP Add solar, wind, natural  gas and energy storage to  our generation portfolio Closely evaluate new  technologies to further reduce  or eliminate CO2 emissions Procure carbon offsets  to neutralize any remaining CO2  emissions from our generation fleet Build a resilient and reliable  grid to efficiently deliver clean  energy to customers Planned retirement and  disposition of select  fossil units Long term Near term While we continue to make progress, our ability  to do""
""so is dependent upon a number of factors  outside of our control. This includes having  regulatory support to execute on renewable  resource plans, evolving RTO requirements,  the advancement of carbon-free generation  technologies, customer demand for carbon- free energy, potential tariffs, carbon policy and  regulation, operational performance of renewable  generation and supply chain costs and constraints,  all while continuing to provide the most cost- efficient and reliable power to""
""customers. We have formalized the annual review of our GHG  reduction targets to assess our progress and adjust,  as appropriate. This review will be conducted  annually and discussed with AEP’s Climate Change  Executive Group.  We are working with our regulators and  policymakers to choose the energy solutions that  meet their individual needs. AEP’s future resource  portfolio, supported by our IRPs, gives us a defined  path toward achieving this.  Our primary purpose as a regulated electric""
""utility is to generate and deliver reliable, affordable electricity  to our customers. We believe that consistent with and subject to this mission, we can also achieve our  greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction targets in parallel. AEP remains committed to working toward achieving  an 80% reduction in Scope 1 GHG emissions by 2030 (from a 2005 baseline) and net-zero by 2045 (Scopes 1  and 2). These targets were established through the output of our Integrated Resource Plans (IRPs) and are  reviewed""
""annually. AEP’s total Scope 1 GHG estimated emissions in 2023 were approximately 43.4 million  metric tons, a 68% reduction according to the GHG Protocol, which excludes emission reductions that result  from assets that were sold, or a 71% reduction from AEP’s 2005 Scope 1 GHG emissions (inclusive of emission  reductions that result from plants that have been sold).  Hydro, Wind, Solar Owned PPA Total AEP Ohio – 209 209 Appalachian Power 801 630 1,431 Indiana Michigan Power 56 450 506 Public""
""Service Company of Oklahoma 830 1,137 1,967 Southwestern Electric Power Company 809 469 1,278 Competitive Wind & Solar 102 427 529 Total 2,598 3,322 5,920 Data as of 3/31/24 22 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report AEP’s Renewable Portfolio - March 2024  In megawatts (MW) Our Pathway  to Net-Zero  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 23 AEP’s GHG Emissions Breakdown (MT CO2e) 1 Major decrease in scope 1""
""emissions from 2022 to 2023 is due to adverse weather that impacted the fossil fleet utilization. 2 Increase in 2023 Scope 2 emissions due to the inclusion of line losses associated with wheeled power. 3 Increase in 2023 Scope 3 Category 1 emissions due to broadening original scope of purchased goods and the introduction of purchased services. *Emissions data in accordance with the GHG protocol.  Scope 1: Emissions directly from  owned & controlled sources Scope 2: Indirect emissions from""
""electricity  purchased & used by the organization Scope 3: Emissions from the supply chain &  all other indirect sources Owned  Generation Office Facilities Supply Chain  Emissions Fleet  Vehicles Line Losses Purchased  Generation Employee Travel  & Commuting Transmission  & Distribution  Maintenance Emission Scope 2021 2022 2023 Scope 11 56,179,500 51,192,510 43,351,137 Scope 2 Market Based 323,580 349,935 1,200,6982 Location Based 318,776 363,484 1,209,3402 Scope 3 Total 35,589,477 41,759,164""
""40,349,289 Category 1: Purchased Goods &  Services 595,845 527,681 2,293,6133 Category 3: Fuel- & Energy-Related  Activities 34,962,336 41,198,607 38,023,762 Category 6: Business Travel 6,215 7,847 6,529 Category 7: Employee  Commuting 25,081 25,029 25,385 Net-zero   by 2045 GHG Emissions  Reduction Targets Scope 1 & Scope 2  GHG emissions 80% reduction  by 2030 Scope 1 GHG emissions  Compared to 2005 levels 68% Scope 1 2005–2023 GHG emission Reductions  Energy Transition Environment Social Our""
""People Governance Data & Reports About AEP 24 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report Opportunities & Headwinds AEP’s generation mix is driven by our resource plans, customer demand, environmental compliance and legal  requirements. Our IRPs are designed to develop a set of supply- and demand-side resources to guide the  generation and supply of electricity in a way that balances affordability, sustainability, reliability and resilience.  The availability of cleaner energy is important to current""
""and prospective customers, helping to spur economic  development and growth across our service territory that has a positive impact for all customers. By integrating  renewables into our generation portfolio, we can remove some of the volatility of fuel costs. In addition to  creating jobs and new tax revenue for local communities, new or expanded business growth enables the spread  of fixed costs across a broader customer base – benefiting all customers. We remain committed to working  with our""
""regulators, policymakers and other stakeholders to choose the most cost-effective and reliable energy  solutions to serve our customers.  AEP’s energy transition is tied to: •        Continuing to invest in infrastructure to provide safe, reliable, affordable,   and environmentally-compliant service. •        Diversifying our electric generation fleet to minimize costs and risks to customers. •  Investing in transmission and distribution to enhance reliability and resilience, and to""
""affect the  availability of components and development of  renewable projects and increase our cost to finance  these and other projects. In addition, a number  of renewable projects have been canceled by  developers and other utilities, while tariffs on foreign  components needed for solar panels and batteries  have stalled delivery at the border. Local opposition  to siting and building renewables, like large- scale wind projects, also pose a challenge. This is  happening at a time of high""
""demand for electricity by  other sectors of the economy and growing demand  for cleaner energy. The growth of data centers, the  chemical and primary metals sectors, and electric  vehicle charging infrastructure for major corporate  fleets is compounding concerns over the adequacy  of capacity resources to meet this demand. We  continue to monitor and take an active role in the  planning and infrastructure development processes  in each of our regions to support resource adequacy  and meet""
""customer needs. While technologies needed to help manage the  intermittency of renewables continue to evolve,  generating plants continue to be retired for a  range of reasons, including age, cost to maintain  and operate, market conditions, fuel costs and  environmental regulations. This has led to growing   About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 25 concerns about the industry’s ability to meet capacity (e.g.,""
""peak demand) and reliability needs.  Regulators, policymakers, regional grid operators and utilities alike have raised concern. Across the  country, some utilities are delaying plant retirements, dropping or adjusting their climate-related  goals, converting coal plants to natural gas or building new natural gas plants to meet capacity  requirements and protect the reliability of the grid. Natural gas provides a reliable 24/7 dispatchable  resource similar to coal. It fills in the gaps when""
""renewable generation is not present or sufficient for  meeting real-time demand.  Today, natural gas is the largest fuel source for the power sector. The tradeoff is that heavier  reliance upon gas for power generation could mean increased GHG emissions in the short-term.  However, we remain confident that as technology and infrastructure catch up, emissions will  decline at an accelerated rate. Natural gas and existing coal generation, along with a growing  renewable portfolio, will provide a""
""bridge to net-zero by protecting grid reliability and affordability  for customers.    There are many factors that influence the decision to retire a generating unit, including ongoing  cost and risk to current and future customers, age and condition of facilities, federal and state  environmental requirements make it cost prohibitive to run the plant, and/or changing market  economics, such as fuel costs. In making the difficult decision to retire a generating plant, we focus  on balancing the""
""plant’s remaining life and economic viability with other options for delivering power.  This includes a mix of renewable energy with natural gas, nuclear and hydro-electric generation to  provide reliable, secure and affordable energy to customers and benefit the environment. Natural gas and existing coal generation, along with a growing renewable  portfolio, will provide a bridge to net-zero by protecting grid reliability and  affordability for customers.  Energy Transition Environment Social""
""Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP 26 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report Modernizing the Grid As the nation’s electric grid undergoes a fundamental transformation, driven by changes on both the supply side and the demand side, transmission becomes increasingly  critical. Transmission underpins the ability to respond to the growing demand for energy that fuels growth and economic prosperity. AEP works to maintain, enhance and  expand its transmission system – the largest in North""
""America – to serve the needs of customers. Today, it is facing new challenges as the system is used in new ways as  aging generation is retired and as new intermittent and distributed resources – including renewables – are interconnected. Driven by the impacts of extreme weather events, resilience has emerged as a core customer expectation. The push for resilience is driving further convergence and  integration of critical networks, including transmission, distribution, natural gas,""
""telecommunications, water, information technology, transportation, financial and others.  Today, new renewable generation and large customer loads can go from concept to in-service in three to five years. In contrast, it can take a decade or longer to plan,  permit and build transmission projects. Significant transmission investment will be needed to improve the resilience of the electric grid and to support growing customer  demand. As we go through this process, it is important that we""
""continue to partner with our states and stakeholders to understand their needs and how we can best  achieve affordable, reliable, resilient and cleaner energy. $16.0B Asset Replacement Local Reliability  RTO Driven  Telecom / Technology  Customer Service  Drivers Transmission Organic Growth Opportunity AEP has a long runway of organic transmission investment opportunities focused on improving  system performance, increasing reliability and resiliency and enhancing market efficiency. 2024–2028""
""Capex Distribution Organic Growth Opportunity AEP’s expansive, aging distribution system provides significant opportunity for investment, and  we are developing a portfolio of projects to address system needs and ramping up our capabilities  to execute these projects. $11.3B 2024–2028 Capex Drivers Capacity Expansion, Reliability &  Modernization  Customer Requests Metering, Automation, Technology &  Telecom  Restoration & Sparing  Data as of March 2024  About AEP Energy Transition Environment""
""Social Our People Governance Data & Reports 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 27 Physical Risk The physical nature of the electric power grid makes it susceptible to weather events that can disrupt power  to customers. In 2020, we studied climate-related physical risks, identifying those that are most likely to  impact AEP’s system. Currently, AEP’s reliability and resilience planning efforts rely on local historical weather  conditions, including wind speed, ice loading on wires,""
""temperature extremes and precipitation and flooding. We  follow industry standards for planning, design, operation and maintenance of our physical assets. These practices  evolve with changing standards, and today’s facilities employ modern and resilient designs that enable better  performance during extreme weather events.  However, it is not possible, affordable or practical to harden every asset to withstand every potential severe  weather event or condition. AEP takes a risk-based approach""
""to assessing asset vulnerabilities to help us  prioritize resilient investments. This allows us to examine proactive measures to withstand and recover from  climate-related physical impacts more quickly rather than being reactive. In addition, we are in the process of  enhancing our planning process with the inclusion of weather scenarios informed by future climate pathways to  help us better prepare the grid for the future. Industry Resilience Efforts The North American Transmission Forum""
""(NATF) Transmission Resilience Maturity Model (TRMM) was created  as a tool for utilities to use to objectively evaluate and benchmark their established transmission resiliency  policies, programs and investments, in order to prioritize enhancements where they are most needed. AEP was  one of the first utilities to pilot the TRMM. The TRMM is used by AEP to continuously evaluate the maturity of its  transmission resilience program, to communicate its capability levels in meaningful terms, and to""
""inform analysis  used to identify transmission resilience investments.  Additionally, through the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI), AEP participates in the Climate Resilience and  Adaptation initiative (Climate READi) to identify climate-related vulnerabilities for the power sector, including  health and safety, energy equity and ecological patterns. Now, in its second year, the project focuses on risk  identification, adaptation and planning for extreme weather impacts and a changing""
""climate. The outcome,  expected in 2025, will be a comprehensive and consistent approach to assessing physical climate risk and a  framework to address those risks while enhancing resiliency. •        U.S. Climate Extremes Index was 65% above  average; ranked 11th highest in 114 years •  Extremes in temperatures (high/         low) felt in Ohio Valley, Upper Midwest,        Southeast, South •      Extreme heat – the “heat dome” •        Texas and Louisiana recorded warmest  temperatures on""
""record •  In Texas, Del Rio and Rio Grande reached  113F; San Angelo reached 114F – all time- heat records for each •     Severe weather outbreaks left nearly a  half-million customers without power in  Louisiana, Texas, Oklahoma and Arkansas  and caused “historic devastation” to the grid •       Louisiana recorded its eighth driest year on  record with 74% of the state in severe drought  in 2023 •         Tornado outbreak in February caused damage  in Texas, Oklahoma, Indiana and Ohio •      11""
""of 27 tornadoes in this outbreak  were in Oklahoma 2023 Climate & Extreme Weather   Events Affecting AEP   Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP Understanding these issues is also important  to keeping our people safe and healthy. For  example, prolonged exposure to high ambient  air temperatures can result in heat stress and  heat-related illnesses. In addition, vulnerable  communities can face greater hardships from  service disruptions as they may""
""have fewer  resources and limited ability to manage and  recover. These types of human impacts are also  included as part of the Climate READi project.   Our priority is to maintain and operate a safe and  reliable grid that is resilient and adaptive, while  maintaining affordability for all customers.  Climate-related Physical Risks to AEP Assets  The following are the most probable climate-related  physical impacts to the AEP system:  •      Extreme temperatures (heat, cold) •""
""Precipitation amount and type (drought,  flood, water level, ice, snow, rainfall) •     Severe weather (lightning, hurricanes,  tornados, damaging winds) •     Sea level rise •        Wind speed •    Solar irradiance 28 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report Technologies we are Monitoring There is no straight line or prescriptive path to a net-zero GHG emissions future as it is constantly evolving  and changing. As few as five years ago, predictions were that certain technologies, such as energy""
""storage,  would be much more advanced by now and commonly in use on the grid. While progressing, many  technologies remain in the early stages of implementation at utility scale. There are numerous building  blocks across multiple sectors that must come together to enable a clean energy economy that is reliable,  resilient and affordable for all customers. And, as states choose their own paths, we must be ready to adapt  and meet their needs.  Emerging technologies and digital solutions are""
""opening new doors while also changing the expectations  of our customers and stakeholders. Technology will play a key role in both creating a more resilient grid  and reaching net-zero, and we need support from policymakers and regulators to develop the technologies,  reduce costs and deploy the technologies across the system.  Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) Carbon capture and storage (CCS) can reduce emissions of carbon dioxide from fossil electric generating units or  industrial processes by""
""capturing it before it is released into the atmosphere. CCS technology, while promising,  has not been widely deployed at a commercial scale. It is currently expensive relative to other options for low- carbon electricity (e.g., wind and solar), difficult to retrofit on existing plants, operationally complex and inefficient  in its use of energy. In addition, there are challenges with the transportation, storage and long-term monitoring of  captured carbon dioxide that still must be resolved.""
""However, if it matures and becomes more cost-effective, and  infrastructure is developed, it could potentially support the long-term need for 24/7 resources, such as fossil fuels,  to fill in the gaps when intermittent resources are not available.  Why this technology is important: CCS is the most direct way to reduce emissions from fossil electric generating  units. AEP continues to monitor developments regarding CCS technology and could potentially look to invest in  such technology if there""
""is a regulatory framework that could require its use, and it becomes technically feasible  and cost-effective relative to other emission reduction options. Distributed Solutions (DERs/DERMS) AEP is actively planning for the growth in Distributed Energy Resources (DERs), such as solar photovoltaic, energy  storage and electric vehicle charging stations. As customer adoption of these technologies continues to increase,   About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data &""
""Reports Long-Duration Energy Storage (LDES) As society increasingly relies on more solar- and wind-generated energy, back-up  power will be required when these intermittent resources are not available. There are  many long-duration energy storage (LDES) technologies under development to fill that  gap, including various battery technologies and hydrogen. LDES comprises a group  of technologies that can store energy for prolonged periods and be deployed to meet  electricity demand for days. Why""
""this technology is important: Energy storage is essential for the flexibility needed  to accommodate variable resources like wind and solar and will help to achieve a  resilient and reliable grid. It can provide the ability to both withdraw energy from the grid  during periods of excess generation and deposit energy during periods of insufficient  generation. However, many LDES technologies are yet to be commercially proven.  Industry R&D must focus on the development of cost-effective LDES""
""technology that can  also work with, or even displace, short-term storage to assure reliability over the course  of a year. We continue to actively monitor developments in LDES technologies.  Small Modular Nuclear Reactors (SMRs) Small Modular Reactors (SMRs) have the promise of being a clean, reliable and  dispatchable generation resource. They are next-generation nuclear facilities that are  smaller and simpler to construct than traditional nuclear generation, potentially offering  a lower""
""capital investment and greater siting flexibility.  Why this technology is important: We believe new technology resources will be  essential to reach our net-zero target. Intermittent renewable energy requires back- up dispatchable generation support to ensure grid stability and reliability. Nuclear  provides clean, reliable and secure energy and is capable of operating 24/7, 365 days  a year. Some states in our service territory have begun to embrace SMR technology  development through enabling""
""legislation.  2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 29 AEP is preparing to launch systems that will manage the impacts of these resources  and maximize the value DERs can bring to an increasingly dynamic energy ecosystem.  Implementation of the Advanced Distribution Management System (ADMS) will include  Operational Distributed Energy Resource Management System (DERMS) functionality  to provide real-time visibility of DERs and enhance the situational awareness of these  technologies as AEP""
""adapts to operating a DER-enabled grid. System improvements  are underway to support the processing, tracking and modeling of DERs to ensure  AEP can reliably connect DERs and model the new technologies in the distribution and  transmission systems appropriately. AEP will also implement a Virtual Power Plant  (VPP) platform with capabilities to aggregate and manage DERs and curtailable loads  to provide operational flexibility, creating value across wholesale, transmission and  distribution""
""operations. Why this technology is important: AEP needs to proactively develop a framework to  manage the influx of DERs, leverage their potential benefits and evaluate investments in  DER technology consistently. Electric Transportation Electric Vehicle (EV) usage is projected to continue its growth across the county over  the next decade, as new options across vehicle classes and price points come to market.  While EV penetration in AEP’s service territory overall is modest, EV growth would""
""bring  challenges and opportunities, including the addition of new and substantial load growth,  as well as the need to manage grid impacts and meet new customer needs.  Why this technology is important: Our objective is to increase access to affordable  charging infrastructure and to continue working with regulators to create programs  that optimize the use of the grid in a manner that benefits all customers while meeting  their needs. Electric transportation provides one of the largest long-""
""term organic growth  opportunities for electricity consumption the industry has experienced in the past  generation. We need to adequately plan for and serve customers’ electric needs now and  in the future.  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP Climate Governance Climate governance is a shared responsibility between management and the  Board of Directors. At the management level, the Climate Change Executive Group  ensures an integrated,""
""enterprise-wide approach to understanding and managing  climate risks and opportunities to inform public policy advocacy, evaluate and direct  AEP’s strategy and align actions with AEP’s regulatory strategy.  The Board of Directors is actively engaged in working with management to oversee  the company’s planning and response to climate-related impacts. The Board  understands the importance of climate change issues and its significance to our  customers, employees, regulators, investors and other""
""stakeholders. The Board  regularly discusses climate-related issues, including GHG emission reductions,  public policy, legislation and regulation, in the context of AEP’s goal to ensure a  durable and sustainable transition to a low-carbon energy economy. The Board’s  focus is to achieve this by balancing the energy transition with system reliability,  resiliency, security and affordability.  In addition, the Board participates in outside educational activities to enhance their  knowledge of""
""climate-related issues, emerging trends and issues and updates on  technological advancements. At other times, topical experts are invited to speak  with the Board.  Certifying GHG Targets AEP is frequently asked to verify our 2045 net-zero target with the Science-Based  Target initiative (SBTi). We have reviewed at length the process to certify carbon  reduction targets as science-based targets, according to SBTi’s methodology, and  concluded that SBTi is not appropriate for AEP. Under SBTi’s""
""methodology, AEP  would not be credited for the work done for more than a decade to transform its  generation fleet and reduce GHG emissions. Although SBTi is not the right process  for AEP, we need to be responsive to those asking for more certainty that the  targets we set are achievable and credible in that they are aligned with global  climate goals.  AEP is one of nearly 30 electric utilities that are participating in a new, two-year  project, spearheaded by EPRI, to establish a new""
""methodology and validation  option for target setting based on sound science. The methodology is designed to  recognize the uniqueness of each company’s assets, markets, regulatory structure,  etc., and to provide the flexibility needed to respond as the future unfolds. We need  to consider the uncertainties around policy and technology; account for multiple  – and sometimes competing – objectives, such as our net-zero target, while  maintaining reliability and affordability; and back a range of""
""strategies that support  resilience to different futures.  Most important to many stakeholders is that our targets are grounded in relevant  science, align with global climate goals of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius  to well below 2 degrees Celsius, are actionable (cost-effective) and account  for transition risks. The project will include a collaborative forum and Advisory  Stakeholder Coalition to provide diverse perspectives (e.g., finance, reporting, trade,  environmental, etc.) and""
""enhance credibility for this approach. We are committed to  a robust stakeholder process that includes ensuring the final methodology aligns  with the priorities and needs of the stakeholders in our states. We believe our emission reduction targets are compatible with the goals of the  Paris Climate Agreement, and we continue to work toward achieving our 2045  net-zero target through the addition of regulated renewables and possibly other  non- and low-emitting resources, investments to""
""modernize the transmission  and distribution systems, planned coal unit retirements, and investments in new  technology research. Follow the progress of EPRI’s SMARTargets™ project. 30 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports Just Transition The nation’s energy transition has practical challenges affecting people,  communities and society at large. These challenges are particularly apparent  in communities and""
""regions dependent upon the fossil fuel industry for jobs, a  tax base that supports public services such as education and safety, corporate  philanthropic support and volunteerism. AEP recognizes these challenges and is committed to building upon our long  history of caring for our employees and communities in areas where we have  retired power plants. We seek inclusive and collaborative partnerships between  the public and private sectors to facilitate a Just Transition by ensuring our""
""foundational beliefs that guide our efforts in  areas where we may need to retire facilities in the future, with the understanding  that specific transition activities could vary based on plant and community needs.  The following principles, explained further at AEPCommunityTransition.com,  were developed based on external benchmarking and input from internal and  external stakeholders.  Our Customers & Communities •     We strive to provide our  customers and communities  with safe, reliable""
""and affordable  power throughout our energy  transition. •     We acknowledge the impacts of  generation plant retirements on  a community. •  We believe proactive,  transparent engagement is vital  to empower communities to  create and own their future. AEP’s New Just Transition Principles At AEP, we believe in facilitating a Just Transition that benefits our  customers and communities, each other and the future. Each Other •         We will treat our workforce  respectfully throughout our""
""transition. •  We believe proactive partnership with  employees can position them for  future success. The Future •    We believe a Just Transition requires  responsible decommissioning and  planning for the site’s future.  •      We commit to continuously improve  our Just Transition processes and to  share updates on our journey with key  stakeholders. What’s Next We have these principles to reference in any future plant retirements, in addition to incorporating lessons learned from our Just""
""Transition experience in Texas. We also have  developed initial metrics to measure our progress and success. We commit to report our progress in our annual Corporate Sustainability Report and on our dedicated website at  AEPcommunitytransition.com, where you can learn more about our Just Transition efforts in Texas. 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 31  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP Electrification Opportunities to expand the use of""
""clean, efficient electric technologies span the spectrum from industrial  processes to home appliances. Innovations in electric transportation, Heating Ventilation Air Conditioning (HVAC),  and industrial processes can help us reach our net-zero target while saving customers money on their total  energy costs. AEP continues our efforts to help our customers realize both the environmental and financial  benefits of utilizing electric technologies in their vehicles, homes and businesses.  As the""
""transportation industry continues to electrify, AEP is working to support this transition. Our efforts to  increase access to affordable charging infrastructure continue to focus on working with regulators to create  programs that benefit all customers – even those who do not drive electric vehicles. This includes offering fleet  and residential customers lower rates during off-peak hours when there is excess capacity on the grid. Increased  consumption of electricity while overall electricity""
""utilization is lower, is good for all customers. This drives down  costs for all users of the grid, not just EV drivers. Overnight charging also allows us to extend the life of existing  grid infrastructure, further benefiting all customers.   Several of AEP’s operating companies offer programs to support our customers in their electrification efforts.  For example, AEP Ohio and Public Service Company of Oklahoma (PSO) offer non-demand rates for public  EV charging. PSO also offers an off-peak""
""non-demand rate for fleet charging and has rebates for residential,  commercial/industrial and public Level 2 charging. Customers in Oklahoma who are interested in lowering their  carbon footprint even further are able to combine PSO’s residential EV charging rate with the wind program. This  program provides customers affordable access to carbon-free power for their home, business and transportation  needs. Indiana & Michigan Power (I&M) EV pilot programs began in 2019 and were extended in 2023""
""for an  additional year in Indiana, pending a more comprehensive EV filing by June 2024. I&M began holding stakeholder  meetings in late 2023 to prepare a suite of EV programs for both Indiana and Michigan customers. The new  program proposals aim to leverage lessons learned and advances in technology and program design to improve  AEP’s electrification mission is to promote efficient electrification in our service  territory and build innovative customer programs that optimize the use of the""
""grid for the benefit of all customers.  the customer experience and streamline programs  to prepare for more customer interest in EVs across  all segments.  As part of Appalachian Power’s energy efficiency  programs, rebates are available to customers for  installing certain high-efficiency residential electric  heat pumps, heat pump water heaters and Level  2 EV chargers. Additionally, Appalachian Power  has a beneficial electrification pilot program in  West Virginia that provides customers""
""with the  opportunity to switch from a non-regulated fuel  source, such as propane or fuel oil, to a high  efficiency electric heat pump and offers rebates  to customers for the purchase and installation  of Level 2 EV chargers. Similarly, Southwestern  Electric Power Company’s (SWEPCO) energy  efficiency rebates and incentives promote the  use of a variety of residential and commercial  electrification technologies including but not  limited to, heat pumps, heat pump water heaters  and""
""induction cooking in the retrofit market.  These same technologies are also promoted in  all-electric homes in the new market. This helps  ensure customers make educated decisions on  their equipment needs as markets are influenced by  federal tax credits for these technologies.   PSO and AEP Ohio have educational materials to  32 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports Reducing Our Own Energy  Consumption AEP is""
""committed to enhancing operational efficiency, continuously reducing energy  consumption within our operations, and minimizing the carbon footprint of our  operations, otherwise known as Scope 2 emissions. We continue to make progress  toward reducing our own energy consumption through energy-efficient equipment  investments, such as new lighting, heating, cooling and control system installations  and employee education. Today, we have 21 LEED-certified company facilities  across our service""
""territory, demonstrating our commitment to reducing carbon  emissions, improving efficiency, saving money and creating healthy workspaces  for our employees. In addition, since 2016, we have installed more than 460 EV  charging stations at facilities across our service territory, allowing us to charge  our growing fleet of electric vehicles and making charging more accessible for our  employees’ personal vehicles. In 2023, we concluded a year-long effort to better capture the energy usage at all""
""of AEP’s owned facilities (excluding power plants). This included installing metering  equipment, implementing an energy usage monitoring tool and adopting a standard  process for data collection and management. This effort will help us better track  and report our own energy consumption to ensure more accurate calculations of  our Scope 2 emissions. support customers in their efforts to electrify their equipment. Additionally, AEP  Ohio helps educate customers on the non-energy benefits of""
""electric technologies,  such as reduced maintenance costs and avoided GHG emissions, helping customers  understand bill and rate impacts of transitioning equipment to electricity from other  fuel sources. AEP Ohio works directly with heat pump manufacturers to secure and  jointly market manufacturer rebates to customers.  As federal funding through grants and tax credits from the Infrastructure  Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA) and the Inflation Reduction Act continues to make  its way to""
""to ensure our customers are fully informed about and can  leverage all available funding opportunities.  AEP’s Fleet Electrification Efforts Internally, AEP has more than 7,000 vehicles on the road driving over 87 million  miles annually to serve our customers. From 2020 through mid-2023, AEP  electrified 5.6% of our on-road fleet and 36% of our forklifts. In late 2023, AEP  paused its fleet electrification target for several reasons, including the need to  reevaluate our strategy to reflect""
""current market and supply chain realities. AEP  remains committed to fleet electrification; however, the strategy for attaining the  target must be reassessed to ensure it can be achieved cost-effectively and in a  way that accounts for manufacturing and supply chain delays while meeting AEP’s  business needs. 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 33  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP Environment At AEP, we strive to always comply with""
""applicable environmental requirements. We  engage with regulatory agencies, industry associations and other stakeholders to  provide input on proposed regulations to ensure fair and achievable requirements.  We are committed to continuously improving our environmental performance and  ensuring the long-term sustainability of our operations. 35   Environmental Compliance 36    Biodiversity 40        Water Use & Management 41      Waste Management  About AEP Energy Transition Environment""
""Social Our People Governance Data & Reports Environmental Compliance At AEP, we strive to always comply with applicable environmental requirements. Through our operations, we are  subject to various federal and state statutes and regulations, including the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act and the  Endangered Species Act, among many others. As the scope and stringency of environmental regulations evolve,  our industry faces technical, operational and financial challenges, including uncertainties""
""with timing, cost and  impact. We engage with regulatory agencies, industry associations and other stakeholders to provide input on  proposed regulations to ensure fair and achievable requirements. We are committed to continuously improving  our environmental performance and ensuring the long-term sustainability of our operations. AEP has made, and continues to make, significant long-term investments to comply with environmental  regulations and reduce our impact on the environment. For example,""
""we reduced our annual emissions of sulfur  dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxide (NOx) by approximately 98% and 96%, respectively, compared to 1990 emissions,  and reduced our mercury emissions by approximately 98% since 2001. For additional disclosure on regulations affecting AEP, please see our SEC Form 10-K. Environmental Compliance in Action AEP’s facilities and operations undergo environmental inspections during both scheduled and unannounced visits  from regulators who assess compliance with""
""regulatory requirements, permits and recordkeeping. If deficiencies  are identified during inspections or audits, we take immediate corrective action to address the issue and prevent  future occurrences. This may involve implementing new procedures, providing additional training, or making  necessary repairs or upgrades to equipment or infrastructure.  To ensure robust compliance, we verify environmental performance through internal audits. Environmental audits  may reveal potential gaps in""
""performance that are related to regulatory requirements and company procedures or  policies. These audits can also produce recommendations for improvements. In 2023, Audit Services conducted 22  environmental audits, which included inspections of 57 locations. In our Energy Delivery business, where a great deal of construction is taking place, project teams must also  complete a mandatory environmental compliance training program to ensure employees and contractors are  aware of applicable""
""regulations. Additionally, to protect sensitive resources throughout our territory, our teams  implement processes before, during and after construction activities to avoid, minimize or mitigate potential  impacts. 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 35 Environmental Performance To encourage outstanding environmental  performance, we set annual targets that focus on  continuous improvement as we strive to achieve our  environmental compliance goals. Our Generation  team leverages metrics to""
""encourage self-reporting  of events and improve environmental performance  through our Environmental Performance Index  (EPI). The EPI helps keep prevention top of mind  and drives us to be more proactive in our actions to  protect the environment.  This program has proven successful as we saw  consistency in performance and achieved a decrease  in the number of EPI events from 2015 through 2021.  In 2022, we expanded the types of environmental  events that are included in the EPI. For example,""
""in addition to reportable spills, releases and water  discharge permit events, the EPI now includes air  and land events in addition to any exceedances of  permitted limitations or failure to meet regulatory  deadlines for sampling, inspecting or reporting.  Under this new standard, AEP experienced  approximately 25 EPI events in 2023 compared to 35  in 2022. EPI performance is factored into a portion of  the funding for short-term incentive compensation  for all Generation employees. Beginning""
""in 2023,  AEP began implementing and tracking metrics for   Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP Biodiversity Biodiversity and the preservation of the natural environment are becoming more prominent issues  among investors, customers and other stakeholders. According to the United Nations, over half of  the global GDP is dependent on natural processes such as water purification, erosion control and  pollination. There are numerous threats that can""
""impact the variety and availability of our natural  resources, including temperature change and severe weather events, such as extreme drought, major  flooding and intense storms. This is why valuing wildlife by practicing environmental conservation and  stewardship across our service territory is an important part of our operations.  As we build and maintain new and existing infrastructure, including wind, solar and transmission, we  are mindful of, and manage the impacts we may have on""
""wildlife and ecosystems including animals  protected under the Endangered Species Act and other legislation. As various rulings and permitting  programs are developed, AEP works alongside regulators to ensure rulings are streamlined,  are fair, and can enable both the energy transition and the protection of wildlife and habitats. We  remain committed to following all federal, state and local environmental regulations and practicing  environmental stewardship where possible when siting,""
""constructing and operating our assets. AEP  follows a hierarchy of avoidance, minimization and then mitigation to guide our efforts and impacts if  projects have the potential to encounter environmentally sensitive areas. environmental performance for Energy Delivery and other  business units. We will continue this implementation process  in 2024.  AEP’s Generation and Environmental Services organizations  also have an Environmental Good Catch program to identify  and prevent conditions that""
""could result in a reportable  environmental event. In a manner similar to that of our Safety  and Health Good Catch program, once the condition is identified,  employees can take measures to correct the situation. A “Good  Catch” can also be behaviors or conditions that represent a best  practice. This demonstrates our commitment to an engaging  and accountable culture where employees own environmental  stewardship – using knowledge sharing and lessons learned  to prevent future non-compliance.""
""More than 300 Good Catches  were identified in 2023, helping to ensure environmental  compliance. 36 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report Employees Help Osprey Find Safe, New Home  AEP’s environmental protection mindset extends to all employees, including line workers. In March 2023, line workers  in Kingsport, Tennessee, noticed an osprey pair had built a nest and taken up residence on a pole near the service  center. The crew agreed this was not the ideal location to raise an osprey family.""
""during a  thunderstorm. The team quickly brought in a bucket truck and rebuilt the nest for the osprey. The birds soon settled  back into the nest and remained for a few more weeks before migrating. This example showcases the importance of  environmental stewardship and protection to AEP and to our employees.  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports Protected Species & Habitat Conservation Plans One way we are addressing impacts to protected species is""
""by working with the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service  (USFWS) to obtain an Incidental Take Permit (ITP), which allows for limited and unintentional take of certain  endangered or threatened species during the construction of transmission projects. A planning document called a  Habitat Conservation Plan (HCP) accompanies all ITP applications and includes methods to minimize or mitigate  the impacts on the species and habitats covered by the ITP. With the development of the ITP application and HCP""
""for transmission activities, AEP and our customers will realize cost and time savings for future transmission  projects by having a clearly defined approach when covered species or their habitats are encountered. AEP’s  continuing work on the ITP application and the accompanying HCP for future transmission projects is one of  the largest efforts of its kind ever undertaken, currently covering 10 endangered species in our 11-state service  territory. This effort focuses on industry best practices""
""and defines actions needed to fulfill Endangered Species  Act requirements. We are working closely with wildlife protection agencies in each of our states to ensure the HCP  is consistent with their goals and covers the appropriate species. AEP received a federal grant from the USFWS Cooperative Endangered Species Conservation Fund to assist in the  application of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). Certain federal actions, such as the issuance of the  ITP, require that a NEPA document""
""be prepared prior to USFWS making a decision to issue a permit. USFWS uses  the NEPA process to evaluate the environmental and related social and economic effects of issuing the ITP. This is  the final piece of the multi-species HCP that will apply to our entire transmission system for 30 years. If USFWS  approves, the ITP and corresponding HCP will enable transmission construction activities that could potentially  impact listed species to proceed without case-by-case agency consultation,""
""provided the mitigation methods  described in the plan are followed. 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 37 Our first response is to avoid sensitive,  protected, and at-risk areas and areas  of high biodiversity, including relocating  projects to an area with less impact.  If such areas can’t be avoided, we work  to minimize the impact, such as pausing  wind turbine operation during bird  migrations.   Our last resort is to implement mitigation  efforts to restore, create, enhance, or""
""preserve sensitive areas that were  unavoidably impacted. This may include  setting aside shoreline habitat or planting  native seed mixes instead of conventional  turf grasses.  Avoid Minimize Mitigate AEP’s Mitigation Hierarchy AEP will continue to work cooperatively with all resource agencies to ensure  the continued compliance with the Endangered Species Act, protection of  wildlife and, where possible and practical, the enhancement of wildlife  habitats across our footprint.  Energy""
""Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP Avian Protection For more than 50 years, the utility industry and conservation groups have  collaborated to understand why and how birds collide with power lines. AEP  voluntarily adopted a systemwide Avian Protection Plan to mitigate avian mortality,  bird-related power outages and other risks associated with bird interactions with  our linear assets.  The plan has several key components: •  Employee training and""
""compliance – Educate and train employees on  compliance requirements and methods for preventing bird collisions and  electrocutions. •    Construction design standards and mortality reduction measures – Design new  lines and facilities with bird safety in mind. •   Nest management and avian enhancement options – Adopt the use of safety  tactics to keep birds away from wires, such as installing bird diverters on power  lines to prevent birds from flying into them. •     Avian reporting systems""
""and risk assessment methodologies – Continuously  improve our monitoring and reporting capabilities. •  Public education – Promote the need for migratory bird and habitat  conservation by working with government agencies and nonprofits. AEP owns and operates wind facilities, which have the potential to impact birds  and bats. One of the many aspects we consider when evaluating these facilities  is adherence to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s Land-based Wind Energy  Guidelines. We also""
""engage with organizations such as the Renewable Energy  Wildlife Institute’s National Wind Wildlife Research Plan and the Electric Power  Research Institute, which are conducting research on wildlife interactions with  renewable assets. Right-of-Way Conservation Research AEP has been testing the long-term feasibility of using native seed mixes, in place of  turf grasses, for revegetation of areas disturbed by construction activities through  research and multiple site demonstrations for several""
""years. The goal of the  research is to explore how to economically incorporate native vegetation into the  Right-of-Way (ROW) to meet vegetation coverage requirements while also promoting  biodiversity of pollinators and other wildlife.  Seed mixes are being tested at sites across AEP’s service territory, including Ohio,  Oklahoma and West Virginia. The seed mixes being tested were developed according  to regional needs and restoration requirements. At these sites, researchers are  documenting""
""rich biodiversity and monitoring habitat quality and succession of  prairie development. Rare species, such as the American bumble bee, have also  been documented at the research sites. These results indicate that the regional  seed mixes are successful and complied with local storm water regulations for site  stability and vegetation coverage.  Due to the success of the studies, AEP is working with landowners to plant native  seeds for post-construction land restoration. For example, AEP is""
""currently using  native seeds in the approximately 200-mile Rio Grande Valley Transmission  Improvements Project. For the project, AEP plans to use native seed mixes  developed by the Texas Native Seeds Program at Texas A&M Kingsville’s Caesar  Kleberg Wildlife Research Institute. The native seed mixes will be used where it is  practical and preferred by the landowners. 38 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report AEP’s partnership with EPRI and the Dawes Arboretum  in Newark, Ohio, to support""
""native seed mix research  was featured during the 2023 EPRI Pollinator Power  Party. This platform brings together peer utilities, NGOs  and community members to share information about the  ecological role of pollinators and the efforts of Electric  Utilities to facilitate pollinator population growth.  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports Environmental Stewardship Recognition In 2023, our Flint Creek Power Plant in Gentry, Arkansas, maintained its""
""silver  Wildlife Habitat Council Conservation Certification. The Flint Creek Power Plant has  approximately 700 acres of designated wildlife habitat that is home to the 65-acre  Eagle Watch and Nature Trail, which includes a half-mile walking trail and wildlife- viewing pavilions, all open to the public. The facility is also home to a pollinator garden,  prairie restoration efforts and many environmental educational events, all of which are  voluntarily hosted by plant employees.  2024 Corporate""
""Sustainability Report • 39 Monarch Butterfly Candidate Conservation  Agreement with Assurances (CCAA) AEP participated in a conservation initiative with  the USFWS to develop a Monarch Conservation  Agreement with Assurances (CCAA). A CCAA  is a formal agreement between the USFWS  and at least one other party to address the  conservation of a species before it becomes listed  as endangered or threatened. Property managers  voluntarily commit to conservation actions that  will help stabilize or""
""restore the species and  possibly avoid listing. AEP continues to coordinate  with the University of Illinois Chicago, electric  utility peers and other stakeholders to help  protect this important and iconic butterfly. AEP is also part of an industry advisory team  to develop a Conservation Benefit Agreement  (CBA) that promotes the conservation of multiple  species of bumble bees native to the United  States. The CBA is a companion agreement to the  Monarch CCAA and is building upon its""
""successful  conservation measures by improving and  sustaining habitat and sustaining or increasing  populations.  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP 40 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report Water Use & Management Water is essential to producing electricity and is critical for many of our processes,  including cooling equipment. Although approximately 90% of AEP’s power- generating capacity in 2023 required water, we returned most of the water we""
""used  to its original source. Water consumption occurs when it is lost to evaporation  primarily due to process cooling and flue gas scrubbing. This represents less than  2% of AEP’s total water use. Our water withdrawal and consumption will continue to  decrease through the additions of wind and solar assets since these energy sources  do not require water input. Our water intensity will also decrease as we retire fossil- fuel generation capacity.  Water Use Reporting Because we place a high""
""value on transparency, we extensively report on our water  management efforts. We do this through required reporting, such as the U.S. Energy  Information Administration and state-level water usage reports, as well as through  voluntary efforts. For example, we annually disclose water data in our ESG Data  Center and the CDP Water Survey. Water Management in High-Risk Areas The effects of drought and flooding conditions can greatly impact our operations. We  operate several power plants in""
""drought-prone regions of the country that require  careful management of water use. We have comprehensive water conservation  plans in place for the Pirkey, Welsh, Wilkes and Knox Lee power plants. In 2023,  these plants conserved an estimated 700 million gallons of water, demonstrating the  effectiveness of this management approach. The Pirkey Plant accounted for much  less water use due to its retirement in March 2023. Surface Water Consumption 83% reduction since 2013 Surface Water Use 48%""
""reduction since 2013 StreamSweepers – Clinch River Clean-Up Project To help manage our watersheds, we support various restoration efforts, including  the StreamSweepers Clinch River Clean-Up Project led by the American Climate  Partners. This program began in 2016 when unique biodiversity and water quality  issues arose during various tests performed on the river which flows through  Southwest Virginia and Northeastern Tennessee.  The StreamSweepers project was created to clean and remediate""
""damage that  occurred to the river and support and improve local economies through jobs and  education. Over the past five years, Sweepers removed over 7,780 tires and nearly  90 tons of trash and debris from 60 miles of the Clinch River. This program has  provided jobs and diverse training for young adults and veterans annually. The AEP  Foundation has been a proud supporter of this restoration effort since 2022 and has  committed $150,000 to it over three years.  About AEP Energy Transition""
""Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 41 Waste Management We manage many types of waste resulting from the process of providing electricity, operating office buildings,  performing construction, and repairing and replacing equipment. We look for opportunities to reduce and divert  waste from landfills through recycling and beneficial reuse of coal combustion residuals, which make up AEP’s  largest waste stream.  Toxic Release Inventory We""
""report through the Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) program, part of the Emergency Planning and Community  Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA). EPCRA requires companies with 10 or more employees, in certain industries, to collect  and publicly disclose information about how they manufacture, process, or use any of nearly 650 chemicals on a  special list developed by the U.S. EPA. Read more on our TRI website. PCBs We continue to see a decline in the amount of polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB)-containing""
""above EPA’s most stringent regulated level. Most spills are caused by severe weather and public  vehicle accidents that damage our equipment. Regardless of the cause, we respond immediately to each spill to  clean up the materials, notify regulatory agencies as required and restore areas to pre-spill conditions. E-waste AEP works alongside our e-waste vendors to follow a structured approach for managing the lifecycle of laptops,  desktop computers, monitors and many other e-waste streams to""
""ensure responsible disposal and maximize  their useful life. Once a device reaches the end of its useful life, it is returned to the AEP Technology Depot at  our corporate headquarters, where it undergoes preparation for disposal. Our partnership with certified third- Scrap Metal 53,375,947 lbs Light Bulbs 32,978 lbs Batteries 156,654 lbs Electronic Equipment  ~240,000 lbs Used Oil 1,163,247 gal Recycled Waste – 2023 Not inclusive of all AEP facilities.  Waste data does not include waste""
""streams from competitive portion of  business. *EWaste increased dramatically in  2023 as a result of restarting our  computer lifecycle program post  Covid.   Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP party e-waste vendors ensures secure disposal of devices. These vendors destroy data, break down devices and  resell any valuable equipment and provide credit back to AEP for future e-waste pickups. In 2023, this program  diverted approximately 250,000""
""pounds of e-waste material from entering the landfill and allowed AEP to avoid  approximately $100,000 in disposal costs.  In addition, AEP reserves some devices with a useful life left to donate to non-profit organizations in need. Recent  donation recipients include the Mid-Ohio Food Collective and Step Ahead Tech, to which we contributed 24 and 15  computers, respectively, to support their initiatives. Coal Combustion Residuals Coal combustion residuals (CCRs) are the solid  material left""
""over from the use of coal in generating  electricity and represent AEP’s single largest waste  stream. As part of our ongoing compliance program, we  continue implementing projects to close existing CCR  impoundments.  CCRs have long been approved for use in concrete,  wallboard and a variety of construction materials. While  this benefits other industries, it also provides a source  of environmental and financial benefit to us. Through  beneficial use of CCRs, we reduce environmental impacts""
""by avoiding the need to landfill the material while  creating a revenue stream that helps to offset other operating costs. Although not all CCRs can be put to beneficial  use, nearly half of the material is kept out of landfills and ash ponds. AEP is continuing to monitor CCR rules and  regulations being developed by the U.S. EPA and states while we are implementing strategies to comply with existing  requirements. Learn more about our CCR Rule Implementation Plans and review our compliance""
""reports on our CCR  website. For additional disclosure on CCR rules and regulations affecting AEP, please see our SEC Form 10-K. Nuclear Waste Management Nuclear energy plays a vital role in AEP’s transition  toward a clean energy future. Nuclear energy is  currently AEP’s largest source of baseload carbon- free generation capacity. As we advance in the  clean energy transition, it becomes increasingly  crucial to harness the benefits of nuclear power  while also managing nuclear waste storage""
""and  tackling decommissioning costs. Balancing these  aspects is critical to ensuring AEP’s commitment to  environmentally responsible energy practices while  meeting our customers’ energy capacity needs. AEP’s Cook Nuclear Plant is committed to operating  and adhering to all regulations under the U.S.  Nuclear Regulatory Commission to ensure the  safe use of radioactive materials for beneficial  civilian purposes while protecting people and the  environment. In 2012, the Cook Plant, located in""
""Bridgman, Michigan, began a program of loading  spent nuclear fuel into dry casks. The latest loading  campaign took place in 2021, bringing the total to  57 dry casks that have been placed into storage.  The next loading campaign will occur in 2024.  The casks can withstand tornadoes, earthquakes,  floods, sabotage, missiles, aircraft and temperature  extremes. Licensed by the Nuclear Energy Regulatory  Commission, the casks meet all applicable security,  environmental and radiological""
""requirements. 42 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report Total CCRs Produced: 2,285,380 U.S. Tons CCRs Beneficially Reused: 1,024,890 U.S. Tons/45% Disposal Costs Avoided: $17,266,243 Revenue Generated: $11,037,713 2023 CCR Beneficial Reuse  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports The current cask storage facility can store 94 casks, or  3,008 spent nuclear fuel assemblies. This would support  the operation of both units through their current operating""
""licenses. Expansion of the pad is possible to facilitate  removal of all fuel assemblies from the plant’s spent fuel  pool and full decommissioning of both units.  We are committed to investing in the long-term viability of  this clean energy resource. Cook’s two units that separately  generate power are licensed through 2034 and 2037,  respectively. As we near the license term, we are beginning  the process of determining whether to seek approval for  a 20-year license extension. Though those""
""current license  dates are a decade away, the process for extending the  license of a nuclear plant is lengthy and requires much  advance work. As the grid continues to evolve, we are evaluating ways  to optimize how we make, move and deliver energy. This  includes monitoring developments in new generation  technology such as advanced small modular nuclear  reactors (SMRs). SMR technology is considered to provide  clean, reliable energy opportunities that can improve grid  resilience and promote""
""energy independence. It offers  many advantages when compared to larger nuclear plants,  such as a smaller physical footprints and reduced siting  restrictions, and they are also more cost-effective. For more information on AEP’s Nuclear Facilities, visit AEP’s  SEC Form 10-K. 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 43  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP Social Whether it’s investing in the grid to improve system reliability, working with  our""
""customers to identify ways to reduce their electric bills, or supporting our  customers’ desire for cleaner energy options, one thing that remains the same is  our commitment to ensuring every customer has access to affordable, reliable and  modern energy options.  45        Customer Care & Support 51     Environmental & Social Justice 53      Economic Impact 57     Community Support 59   Supply Chain Management  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data &""
""Reports 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 45 Customer Care & Support AEP has been providing our customers with safe and reliable electric service for more than 118 years. This  includes supplying a critical source of energy that enables safety, comfort and today’s modern amenities. Whether  it’s investing in the grid to improve system reliability, working with our customers to identify ways to reduce their  electric bills, or supporting our customers’ desire for cleaner energy options, one""
""thing that remains the same is  our commitment to ensuring every customer has access to affordable, reliable and modern energy options. We  also understand that our customers’ needs and expectations are evolving, requiring us to shift and change to  meet their demands. Our investments in the power system are focused on meeting these demands by expanding  customer programs, digital capabilities and cleaner energy offerings while being mindful of the impacts that our  energy transition has on our""
""customers and communities. Energy Affordability & Assistance Although inflation slowed in 2023, the cost of  common expenses such as food and fuel remained  high, putting a strain on household incomes and  their ability to meet their basic needs. Unfortunately,  inflation impacted electric bills, too, as our costs to  serve customers increased. Although the average  price of electricity for the U.S. residential customer  increased by 2% in 2023, this was layered on top of  the 14% increase that""
""occurred in 2022. This was  primarily due to higher fuel supply costs, such as the  cost of natural gas. Fuel costs are a pass-through  cost to customers, meaning they pay only what we  pay for the fuel needed to generate electricity, as  there is no mark-up or profit added. In addition,  extreme weather conditions put more demand on  AEP’s system to either heat or cool customers’  homes and provide uninterrupted electric service.  We understand financial hardships can make it  difficult for""
""2021 2022 2023 Appalachian Power $71.1 $67.7 $40.7 AEP Ohio $12.2 $77.9 $14.8 Public Service Company of Oklahoma $14.4 $26.1 $19.2 Indiana Michigan Power $12.1 $21.2 $13.0 Southwestern Electric Power Company $12.9 $15.2 $16.3 Kentucky Power $12.2 $10.1 $6.6 Total $134.8 $218.1 $110.6 Energy Assistance Provided to Help Customers  Pay Their Electric Bills In millions  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP 46 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report In""
""2023, we received close to 53,000 pledges totaling nearly $19.7 million in energy  assistance from our self-serve agency website, a 25% decrease from our record  amount of funding in 2022 (income guidelines determine eligibility). The funding  for our energy assistance programs comes from a variety of sources, including  the government, social service agencies, voluntary customer contributions, and  even our own employees, who during the pandemic created an assistance funding  program called""
""Friends & Family Direct that allowed employees to make personal  contributions to help customers pay their electric bills. In addition, government- sponsored energy assistance programs provided more than $110.6 million in federal  and private energy assistance to our customers across our service territory in  2023 – a 49% decrease compared to 2022. This decrease was a result of scaled-back  supplemental funding from the CARES Act and American Rescue Plan, which were  primarily distributed in""
""2022.  Throughout our service territory, we help connect customers with energy assistance  programs. Our success rests on building strong partnerships with community  action agencies, community-based organizations, faith-based organizations and food  banks. For example, through Public Service Company of Oklahoma’s (PSO) Shine a  Light project, close to 1 million energy-efficient light bulbs have been distributed to  customers over the past 10 years. This equates to more than $3 million in energy""
""savings. AEP’s Customer Assistance Programs Throughout our service territory, we offer creative solutions to help customers  manage their energy use as well as pay their bills. Disconnecting customers is  always our last resort. We help customers access energy assistance programs and  flexible payment options so they can maintain electric service without building up  large past-due balances. Our efforts include: •        Payment arrangements – Breaks up past-due amounts into installments over""
""bill. •       Friends and Family Direct – Allows payments toward a relative’s or friend’s  electric bills. •  Payment assistance programs – All our states offer winter heating assistance  programs that assist low-income customers with missed payments. Many of  our states offer cooling assistance during the summer months. •  Pre-Pay (PSO Power Pay) – With this pre-payment method, customers pay in  smaller amounts throughout the month. Usage is calculated on a daily basis  and is deducted from a""
""pre-funded account. •      PIPP Plus – Eligible Ohio customers manage their energy bills year-round  with monthly payments based on a percentage of household income.  AEP recently launched a new online tool to educate and engage  customers on programs through which they are likely to qualify for  assistance. Approximately 1 million email alerts were sent to low-  and moderate-income customers in December 2023 and January  2024 to notify them of this tool.  About AEP Energy Transition Environment""
""Social Our People Governance Data & Reports 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 47 Keeping Our Customers Connected Our priority is to keep the lights on 24/7, year-round. At times, however, power outages,  whether planned or unplanned, can negatively impact our customers. Whether due to a  storm damaging power lines or substations, a vehicle hitting a pole, or a tree falling on  a power line, outages can be disruptive, costly and inconvenient. Additionally, regular  maintenance and system""
""upgrades sometimes require briefly shutting off power to  allow our workers to safely and efficiently restore service or do maintenance.  No matter the type of outage, we work to restore our customers’ power as safely and  quickly as possible. We also want our customers to be aware of, and prepared for,  potential disruptions to their service, especially when severe weather is expected. We  proactively deliver important information they will need, such as storm preparedness  tips, safety""
""information and ways to conserve energy when demand is high. Customers  have several ways to stay connected with us, including through text and email updates  as well as social media. They can also follow our restoration progress by monitoring  real-time outage maps. Unfortunately, weather can be unpredictable and destructive. Several states within  AEP’s service territory experienced severe weather events in 2023, including extreme  heat in Louisiana and Texas and tornados in Ohio, Indiana and""
""Oklahoma. These events  caused extensive damage to AEP’s system and customer outages. Several AEP states,  including Texas, experienced record-high temperatures during a 2023 heat dome that  put a strain on AEP’s system. In 2023, the Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT),  which manages the flow of electric power to more than 26 million customers in Texas,  set an all-time peak demand record for electricity in August. To prevent rolling blackouts  and maintain reliability, ERCOT and AEP""
""Texas encouraged customers to conserve  energy during the period of high demand. Customers practicing conservation efforts,  including adjusting their thermostats and avoiding the use of large appliances like the  washers and dryers during periods of high demand; reduced the burden on the electric  grid, helped us keep the lights on, and demonstrated the importance of proactive  communication and customer efforts. Convenient Customer Care & Support  AEP customers can reach us through multiple""
""channels. No  matter how our customers choose to connect with us, we’re  dedicated to responding to their needs more efficiently  and cost-effectively. • Customer Care Team  available 24/7 • Social media engagement • Two-way text • Online bill pay, outage  reporting and service request • Automated phone system • Aepril (digital assistant) • Bill pay notifications • Outage notifications • High bill alerts Customer Energy Efficiency Offerings  AEP offers our customers a robust set of energy""
""efficiency  programs to help them manage their energy usage.  This includes: • Bill comparisons • Home and business  energy analysis • Home weatherization,  lighting, HVAC • Commercial and industrial  equipment upgrades and  process improvements  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP Mutual Assistance  On the heels of another destructive storm just three days prior, a massive windstorm with straight-line winds  over 100 mph struck the Tulsa,""
""Oklahoma, area on June 17, 2023, toppling mature trees, destroying homes and  damaging a significant portion of PSO’s metropolitan Tulsa power grid. At the height of the outage, 204,677 PSO  customers were without power, the second largest outage in recent PSO history. Damage like this requires a  tremendous amount of planning, resources, logistics and equipment to restore power to our customers. AEP relies  on help from not only our local employees and other operating companies, but also other""
""received the Edison Electric Institute’s (EEI) Emergency Response Award, one of the highest awards in the  electric utility industry, for its storm response. This award recognizes recovery and assistance efforts of electric  companies following major service disruptions caused by extreme weather or other natural events. Investing in Customer Reliability  Keeping our customers’ lights on is our top priority, which is why investing in the reliability and modernization  of the electric grid is so""
""important. We are working to keep power lines clear of vegetation, replacing vulnerable  infrastructure and investing in technology advancements to allow our system to better  communicate with us and with our customers. When the system was first built more than  a century ago, power flowed one way – from the power plant to the customer through  transmission and distribution. Today, we operate with two-way flows of power and  information – from the power plant to the customer and from the""
""customer back to the grid.  In addition, we need the ability to reroute power flows to keep the lights on when disruptions  occur, thereby mitigating customer impacts. AEP is in the process of replacing several legacy  systems with a tool that will provide real-time  monitoring and control, real-time assessments,  adaptability and configurability, otherwise known as  Advanced Distribution Management System (ADMS).  The ADMS tool introduces essential new capabilities  necessary for the safe and""
""reliable operation of  a Distributed Energy Resources (DERs)-enabled  grid. This system will allow us to interact with  and control equipment on the distribution system,  including moving load around either manually or  automatically, to help keep customers connected.  This includes flagging equipment that is about to fail  or, when it does fail, quickly identifying when and  where outages occur, and giving us the ability to  prevent a domino effect of additional outages. This  helps us better""
""communicate with our customers on  our restoration efforts so they can plan accordingly. Helping Our Customers Manage  Their Energy Usage  We believe customers should be empowered to  make decisions on how to optimize their energy  experience. This is why we help customers better  understand and manage their energy usage through  energy efficiency programs and offerings in several  of our jurisdictions. Today, AEP provides customers  with access to a variety of energy management tools  to help""
""them accomplish these goals. These tools  keep our customers informed through proactive  48 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports energy usage alerts and provide personalized  energy efficiency tips and programs. Our continued investments in grid modernization,  such as smart meter technology, further enhance  our ability to provide customers with energy  management tools and programs. Smart meters  use secure,""
""two-way wireless communication to  measure and record electricity usage and send  the information from a customer’s meter to AEP.  This information gives us the ability to develop and  deliver highly personalized solutions, such as high  bill alerts. In 2023, AEP invested an estimated $100  million in customer energy efficiency programs. As  of January 2024, AEP has deployed smart meter  technology to 78% of our customers throughout our  11-state service territory.  Through secure, two-way""
""overheating posing the risk of a fire. The line  servicer quickly disconnected the panel, preventing  a potential fire and saving parishioners from the  devastating loss of their local church.  Distributed Energy Resources  Investments to properly integrate Distributed  Energy Resources (DERs), such as energy storage,  renewable generation or electric vehicles and their  charging equipment, are critical to supporting local  reliability for our customers and communities. As  our industry""
""transforms to the grid of the future,  utilities will need to continue to meet customer  expectations for safety, reliability and affordability  while new expectations arise around resiliency,  decarbonization, and customer choice and control.  Customers are increasingly seeking to deploy low-  or no-carbon generation resources as a means  of replacing, augmenting or offsetting electricity  provided by AEP. Along with more traditional  interconnection requests for solar, wind and  batteries,""
""utilities must prepare for other devices  and interactions with the grid through Demand  Response programs, aggregations, and electric  vehicles and their charging equipment. State and federal policymakers and regulators are  currently engaging stakeholders, including AEP, to  prepare for the impact of DERs on the system. New  standards and requirements are being developed  to support the ability of DERs to connect to the  distribution system to support customer goals  and participate in""
""wholesale markets. As the  volume of requests to connect DERs continues to  increase, current capabilities will need to scale and  gain efficiencies for AEP to continue to process  applications within defined timelines. AEP is taking  a comprehensive approach to understanding and  adapting to the increasing complexity of planning  and operating a safe and reliable grid as power  flows change on the distribution system. Visibility  into DERs connected and interacting with the grid is  a critical""
""step for AEP to ensure that DERs and other  devices are properly integrated into our planning  and operations processes and tools. This will  enable AEP to develop optimal and equitable energy  solutions that support customer and grid needs. AEP is well-positioned to understand the challenges  and the opportunities that arise with DERs and  is committed to methodically enhancing our  capabilities to prepare for their implications.     Vegetation Management  Keeping power lines clear of""
""vegetation is a priority  for electricity reliability. It’s also very challenging  because AEP’s service territory includes some of  the most rugged terrain in the nation. This makes  prevention of outages and equipment failures  from overgrown and fallen vegetation one of  our biggest and most expensive challenges to  maintaining reliability. We manage vegetation  growth immediately surrounding our power  2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 49  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People""
""Governance Data & Reports About AEP 50 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report lines – within our defined easements to ensure operational integrity – using a combination  of performance-based (such as targeting low-performing circuits) and cycle-based (regularly  scheduled) maintenance strategies. In addition to maintaining what is growing inside our rights- of-way (ROW), we also evaluate the health of trees outside the ROW as part of our management  process. AEP operating companies work with""
""state regulatory commissions to proactively  manage vegetation in regularly scheduled maintenance cycles. We do this while balancing the  rights of individual property owners with preventing customer outages by improving service  reliability. During the past five years, we have spent approximately $3 billion on vegetation  management, including $578 million in 2023. Leveraging Drone Technology  Drones provide an effective means for AEP to conduct regular maintenance inspections of power  lines,""
""survey damage after storms and perform low-cost vegetation management in hard-to- reach terrain. Drones are used all across AEP, including within our operating company AEP Ohio.  AEP Ohio’s drone program is intricately linked to its smart grid infrastructure. By harnessing  real-time data from the smart grid, drone pilots perform critical tasks efficiently and effectively.  From inspecting power lines to assessing storm damage, these aerial devices allow us to move  quickly to reduce downtime""
""institutions to  exchange knowledge and insights with their drone programs. By fostering these partnerships,  we not only contribute to the education of future drone professionals but also gain fresh  perspectives and innovative ideas.  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 51 Environmental & Social Justice “We consider the customer in all that we do.”  This statement – one of AEP’s culture values – lies at the""
""heart of  our focus on environmental and social justice (ESJ). We define ESJ as meaningful engagement with customers and  communities when we are making decisions and a commitment to consider the environmental and social impacts  of our decisions, especially on historically disadvantaged communities. Examples of disadvantaged communities  include low-wealth communities, communities of color, tribal communities and communities with language  barriers, differing abilities or other challenges.  Our""
""Executive Order 14091 and Executive Order 14096, both  introduced in 2023. ESJ also remains an area of focus in laws such as the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act  (IIJA) and federal government initiatives such as Justice40. Various state and federal regulators, policymakers,  legislators and other stakeholders, including investors, continue to express interest in addressing possible  environmental and social inequities, particularly those affecting historically marginalized communities.""
""Advancing Environmental & Social Justice  In January 2022, AEP adopted a new ESJ policy to formalize and strengthen our commitment to proactive and  meaningful stakeholder engagement, in addition to ongoing consideration of the environmental and social impacts  of our decisions. The policy was created following extensive research and collaboration by a cross-functional AEP  ESJ Advisory team representing diverse aspects of our business. The Advisory Team sought input from internal  and external""
""focus is guided by our strategic vision  to promote a clean energy transformation;  enable growth and increased prosperity for our  communities; innovate for the benefit of our  customers; build a modern, secure, and resilient  grid; and drive operational excellence.  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP 52 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report tools. These resources are expected to deploy in the coming months, after which employees will receive""
""team introduced a user-friendly feature that gives website visitors  the option of reading the site in Spanish or any other language available through Google Translate – Chinese,  French, German, Somali, Ukrainian, Zulu and others. About the Rio Grande Valley Project What: The Rio Grande Valley project involves  adding about 200 miles of electric transmission  line and four substations to the Texas grid by the  end of 2026. Additional area improvements involve  installing a second line to about""
""190 miles of  existing electric transmission line.  Why: AEP’s Texas subsidiary and Electric  Transmission Texas developed this project to  strengthen the region’s power grid. The Electric  Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) recognized  the need for additional infrastructure following  Texas’ winter storms in February 2021. Though  the Rio Grande Valley project is not directly in  response to the storm, the effects of the storm  on Texas residents highlighted the need for grid  improvements.""
""Rio Grande customers and stakeholders view AEP’s project  plans for transmission lines.  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 53 Economic Impact At AEP, we believe we are only as strong as the communities we serve. The economic vitality of our local  communities is integral to our success, which is what underpins our intentional focus to foster economic  diversification within our service territory, creating""
""across our 11-state footprint. In  addition to job creation and increases in the local tax base, our revitalization and development efforts help address  economic challenges and support growth. This includes:  •      Addressing the ongoing supply chain shortages and security challenges by supporting the reshoring of  companies that produce critical supplies to the United States.   •        Contributing to energy affordability by growing our customer base to spread fixed costs among a larger pool""
""of customers.   •  Supporting the efforts of our community partners to compete for federal and state funding for various  infrastructure projects. •       Building workforce capacity and availability by providing training, education and financial support to ensure a  competitive pool of local talent. Committed to Meeting Customer Energy Needs  Decarbonization continues to be a major focus for companies of all types. Driven by mandates and goals to  decarbonize, our commercial and industrial""
""customer base is in the midst of a major transformation to automate  and electrify various aspects of their operations. This has already contributed to a notable increase in the energy  intensity for new and expanding manufacturing operations. Electricity availability, capacity and cost have become far  more significant factors in the location decisions companies are making.  Leveraging our local field knowledge, detailed mapping capabilities and analytical insights, we are focused on""
""continually growing and marketing a broad portfolio of available industrial properties. We currently promote more  than 160 properties across our footprint, many of which are marketed as development-ready industrial properties. Our  AEP’s Economic Development Strategy in Action –  Enabling Sustainable Local & Global Impact •  Support fueling the world with LNG, ammonia  and hydrogen through several large  investments in Texas.  •       Energizing the EV transition with a new large- scale battery""
""production facility in Indiana,  a lithium refining operation in Texas, and a  battery recycling facility in Oklahoma.  •  Bolstering the clean energy transition through  new large-scale solar panel manufacturing  facilities announced in Oklahoma and Ohio.  •        Through SWEPCO, powering the supply of  vertically grown lettuce in Texas. objective is to bring in a diverse mix of customers in  leading growth sectors that will result in impactful  and sustainable local job creation. We are""
""intentional  in showcasing these sites, many of which have been  vetted by industrial site selection and construction  experts and have infrastructure planned or in place.  Prepping these sites to be energy-ready also reduces  construction time, making AEP even more competitive  in attracting new businesses and jobs to our  communities. This intentional focus and investment in  energy-ready sites and our sector strategy has proven  successful in 2023.   Energy Transition Environment Social Our""
""People Governance Data & Reports About AEP 54 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report Examples of Energy-Ready Successes:  •      In Oklahoma, our previous site preparation efforts led to the biggest economic development project in  Oklahoma’s history. A global manufacturer chose a site at the Port of Inola – a site formerly owned by  PSO and prepared for shovel-ready projects – to build a $1 billion solar panel plant in the Tulsa region.  The facility is projected to employ 1,000 direct jobs.""
""Business Facilities magazine named it an Impact  Award winner for direct foreign investment.  •        The largest egg carton producer in the U.S. chose Van Wert, Ohio, a small rural community of 11,000  residents in northwest Ohio, for its latest facility. Our investments in site due diligence, infrastructure  and the community of Van Wert set the stage for this investment to happen. The company determined  it could build a large 100-job custom facility quickly on the AEP Certified shovel-ready""
""site. The AEP  Ohio team was instrumental in supporting the company’s aggressive timeline.  •     The Indiana & Michigan Power (I&M) team provided critical support to the South Bend Regional  Chamber and the St. Joseph County Economic Development Department through site readiness,  rezoning, and marketing support as the Indiana Enterprise Center mega site was developed. The  availability of this large-scale build-ready site, with adequate electric capacity, was a leading factor in  landing a new""
""1,600-job electric vehicle battery production facility in New Carlisle, Indiana.  •  A California company selected Bluefield, West Virginia, for its next facility to produce prefabricated  home building blocks. The Appalachian Power team worked with the City of Bluefield in recent years  to prepare the site through its InSite Site Readiness project. This company’s project will result in 150  direct jobs.  •   Appalachian Power also celebrated Nucor’s progress toward its plan to build a state-of-""
""the-art sheet  steel mill plant in Mason County. In October, the company celebrated its $3.1 billion investment,  the largest in Nucor’s history, with a groundbreaking on their West Virginia site previously owned,  prepared and marketed by AEP. The company eventually plans to employ over 800 direct workers at  the site.  Securing new business also means modernizing and  enhancing the electric grid to meet the additional demand  for energy. These investments provide energy reliability  and""
""resiliency not only for new commercial and industrial  customers but also our residential customers located in  the surrounding area. In addition to providing more reliable  energy, growing our customer base helps alleviate the  burden of energy costs. Our efforts to grow the customer  base, together with the multiplier effect of bringing more  jobs to our communities, enable AEP to spread these  investment costs across a larger pool of customers,  resulting in more affordable energy rates for""
""everyone.   We are also committed to helping our customers achieve  their sustainability goals through energy conservation  and clean energy options. Southwestern Electric Power  Company’s (SWEPCO) customer Rockline Industries,  one of the world’s leading manufacturers of coffee  filters and consumer, medical and commercial wet  wipes, set ambitious carbon reduction goals as part of  its comprehensive sustainability strategy. This included  committing to source 60% of its electricity from""
""renewable  sources and reducing energy consumption by 5%. Rockline  associates collaborated with SWEPCO’s Energy Efficiency  team to conduct detailed analysis and audits and, through  the implementation of best practices, were able to identify  opportunities to reduce energy consumption by 7.4%. In  addition, through SWEPCO’s Renewable Energy Choice  program, they were able to reduce GHG emission by 36%  across the company.    About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance""
""Data & Reports 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 55 Auto Battery  Manufacturing New Carlisle, IN Graining Milling -  Expansion Ligonier, IN Sustainable Egg Carton  Manufacturing  Van Wert, OH Chemical Manufacturing Wheeling, WV Data Center  Multiple Locations Franklin County, OH Solar Panel  Manufacturing Pataskala, OH Composite Building  Manufacturing Bluefield, WV Glass Product  Manufacturing Ridgeway, VA Battery Recycling Bartlesville, OK Solar Panel  Manufacturing  Inola, OK Commercial""
""Drone Testing Tulsa, OK  Lighting Transformer  Manufacturing Shreveport, LA  Lettuce Farming Mt. Pleasant, TX Composite Piping  Manufacturing Kilgore, TX  Fire Suppression  Equipment Manufacturing Beeville, TX E-Fuels Bay City, TX Lithium Hydroxide  Manufacturing  Robstown, TX Liquified Natural Gas Brownsville, TX Composite Material  for RVs Three Rivers, MI AEP Ohio AEP Texas PSO ApCo Swepco I&M Kentucky Power Project highlights from January 1, 2022 – December 31, 2023 Economic Development""
""Project Highlights: 2022 thru 2023 92 Projects 10,600 Direct Jobs  Created 14,900 Indirect and  Induced Jobs  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP 56 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report Workforce & Community Support  & Development  While attracting new business is the end goal of  our economic development efforts, partnering  with our communities is the true enabler behind  our success. A cornerstone of our economic and  businesses development""
""and success of their community economic  development. Due to the program’s success and  popularity, AEP continues to customize the content  for communities across our system. More than 250  individuals benefited from this content in 2023, with  close to 880 benefiting since it launched in 2022.    About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 57 Community Support At AEP, we firmly believe in the power of giving back to""
""nutritious food. We support programs that  recover, repair and revitalize homes and  communities.  Power Up the Pantry | $25,000  Kentucky Power played a key role in  presenting the fourth annual Power Up  the Pantry food drive.  The AEP Foundation  donated $25,000 to various foodbanks during  the event. In addition, the event collected  nearly a ton of nonperishable food items. Since the first event in 2019, Power Up  the Pantry has enabled the collection of  more than 23,000 pounds of food and""
""curriculum  and increasing learning opportunities on the  Underground Railroad.  Community  Vitality Basic Human  Needs Education Social    Justice AEP and the AEP  Foundation contributed  over $31.6 million   to support over 1,700  organizations 2023 Charitable Giving by Area of Focus 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 28% 18% Education 15% 8% 31% Community  Vitality Hunger &  Housing Social  Justice/DEI Other  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP 58 • 2024""
""Corporate Sustainability Report Employee Volunteerism AEP employees are passionate about giving back to the communities where they live and work. Volunteerism  is deeply rooted into AEP’s heritage at every level of the organization. Our leaders take an active role in  spearheading our volunteerism efforts, serving on the boards of 120 nonprofit organizations across our service  territory. Employees eagerly lend a hand to build energy-efficient homes for those in need, join in local cultural""
""frames for Beds of Hope in Longview, Texas, to preparing and  serving meals for those in need in Shreveport, Louisiana.  Celebrating and honoring our volunteers In 2023, LaRissa Lundry received the Charles  Patton Volunteer of the Year Award honoring their  commitment to community service. This award is  named after retired AEP executive and dedicated  community leader Charles Patton.  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports 2024 Corporate""
""Sustainability Report • 59 Supply Chain Management AEP is deploying multi-faceted procurement strategies to ensure the needed materials, equipment and labor are  available to support construction projects, day-to-day maintenance and repair, weather events and new business  development. We are utilizing best practices such as demand forecasting and supplier relationship management  with key suppliers to be a customer of choice in a very competitive market. AEP’s strategic focus on supply chain""
""preparedness and resilience has proven critical to mitigating supply chain disruptions. We are securing additional  sources of supply both domestically and globally to acquire critical materials such as transformers, voltage  regulators and circuit breakers.   Additionally, we are leveraging the insight and expertise of the Edison Electric Institute (EEI), utility peers, industry  analysts and our knowledgeable employees to identify innovative solutions. AEP is a member of the Sustainable""
""Supply Chain Alliance (SSCA) that focuses on advancing supply chain sustainability best practices within the  electric utility industry and is currently serving on the executive committee. $7.9 Billion Total corporate  spend  on goods  and services 52 Percent Total corporate  spend on locally  based suppliers  $4.1 billion  $1.4 Billion Total corporate spend   on goods and services  from small businesses $1 Billion  Procurement spend   on goods and services   from diverse suppliers  Includes""
""Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP 60 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report Supplier Code of Conduct  AEP values our relationships with our suppliers, energy providers and other organizations looking to do business  with us, and we want to be as transparent as possible in our expectations of them. AEP’s Supplier Code of Conduct  serves as a guide for suppliers to uphold our values around safety and health, environmental performance,  ethics and""
""Often, these requests require adherence to specific protocols that  may not be suitable for AEP. We are sensitive to the complexities of supply chain management, and we have  policies, procedures, terms and conditions and a Supplier Code of Conduct in place to address these issues.  In addition, we must comply with supply chain-related regulations designed to protect the bulk electric power  system. We strive to clearly communicate our expectations to those doing business with us, including with""
""respect  to regulatory compliance. When we have questions or concerns, we address them directly with our suppliers. We  believe this is a more effective way of managing our relationship with suppliers and builds a stronger, trusting  partnership with them.  Sustainability Performance  We are committed to proactively reporting our sustainability performance, governance and practices, including  supply chain management. We leverage EcoVadis’ Sustainability Ratings for Global Supply Chains, one of""
""the most  commonly used sustainable procurement performance ratings, to generate a company scorecard and share it  with our customers. This scorecard outlines AEP’s performance in four key areas: Environment, Labor and Human  Rights, Ethics and Sustainable Procurement. Request AEP’s Scorecard   About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 61  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports""
""About AEP Our People Attracting, developing and retaining high-performing employees with the skills and  experience needed to serve our customers efficiently and effectively is crucial to  AEP’s growth and competitiveness and is central to our long-term strategy. The  electric utility sector has an added level of complexity as we undergo a transition  toward a cleaner energy future and work to understand the evolving skill sets and  talent needed. 63    Workforce Planning & Development 63""
""Career Development 66  Focus on Future Talent 68       Caring for Our Workforce 69     Safety & Health 74      Culture & Inclusion  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports Workforce Planning & Development Attracting, developing and retaining high-performing employees with the skills and experience needed to serve our  customers efficiently and effectively is crucial to AEP’s growth and competitiveness and is central to our long-term  strategy. The""
""electric utility sector has an added level of complexity as we undergo a transition toward a cleaner  energy future and work to understand the evolving skill sets and talent needed. To remain a competitive employer,  AEP is investing in integrated talent management practices to support the energy transition as we continue  delivering safe, affordable and reliable energy to all customers. Career Development AEP’s learning and development programs are built to ensure that every employee receives""
""Reviews & Coaching – Focuses on setting annual goals for employees that are aligned with  organizational objectives to support business outcomes while simultaneously encouraging employees’  personal development and career growth. AEP is one of six companies to earn the JUST Jobs  Leader designation on the JUST Jobs Scorecard in  2024. In 2024, AEP was named one of America’s Most  JUST Companies for the fourth consecutive year. 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 63  Energy Transition""
""Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP •     On-Line Training – Beginning in 2022, AEP provided all employees with access to LinkedIn Learning to  empower them to take charge of their development and career growth. This includes access to an online video  training library that offers more than 9,600 expert-led courses in technical, business, software, creative and  business skills. In addition, through our Learning Management System (KEY), our employees completed more""
""training along  with up to eight hours paid leave before and  after Reserve and National Guard training, if  scheduled for work during those hours. In 2023, we invested more than $2.2 million in employee education, supporting over  560 employees through our educational assistance program.   About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports Labor Relations     We value the relationships we have with our union- represented employees and believe in the pursuit of""
""National Maintenance  Agreements to which AEP is a signatory. The labor- management relationship will continue to strengthen  as we work together to meet employee needs in our  transition toward a cleaner energy future. 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 65 Labor Unions Employees International Brotherhood  of Electrical Workers 3,172 Utility Workers  Union of America 463 United Steelworkers  of America  219 United Mine  Workers of America 89 International Union  of Operating Engineers  2""
""direction.   Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP 66 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report Focus on Future Talent The electric utility industry is experiencing a generational shift among its workforce.  As we welcome younger generations onto our team, we are mindful of the  importance of preserving legacy knowledge as employees retire. AEP’s overall  turnover rate is below 9%, including voluntary, involuntary and retirement turnover.  Although it""
""of completion in the program beginning with the fall 2024  semester.  •      Northwest Louisiana Technical Community College (NLTCC) – Southwestern  Electric Power Co. (SWEPCO) has partnered with Northwest Louisiana  Technical Community College (NLTCC) to officially launch a Louisiana-based   About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 67 certificate program to help the next generation of lineworkers through""
""Generation X (1965-1980) Millennials (1981-1996) Generation Z (1997 and Beyond) 36% 37% 7% 38% 39% 37% 36% 0.04% 2% 5% <1% <1% <1% 24% 20% 17%  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP 68 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report Caring for Our  Workforce AEP is committed to the well-being of our employees  and we offer programs to foster employee financial  security, physical and emotional health and social  connectedness. We provide market competitive""
""•   Group homeowners and auto insurance •   Pet insurance   About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 69 Safety & Health At AEP, the safety and health of our workforce is critical  to our success. We recognize that we can only be as  successful as the people we count on to care for our  customers and deliver clean, reliable and affordable  power to our communities.  Safety is deeply embedded in our culture and is""
""Rate .438 .380 Contractor DART Incidents 74 62 S&H contractor performance data includes forestry contractors. DART Rate = ((Deaths + Lost Workday Cases + Restricted Activity Cases) x 200,000) / employee hours worked. Safety & Health Performance at AEP  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP which conducts safety and health audits throughout our service area. In 2023, the team  completed 22 safety and health audits, which included site visits at 36""
""performing a quality pre-job briefing, specifically in identifying and  addressing high energy hazards, is vital to our success. An effective pre-job briefing is expected to cover: •    Hazards associated with the job •       Work procedures involved •      Specific assignments •  Energy sources and controls •   Communication methods In 2023, AEP executed an initiative focused on improving the pre-job briefing  process through workshops in all major business units. As part of our strategic""
""objective to address SIF events, these workshops offered guidance through  interactive exercises on how to have meaningful conversations during briefings and  how to select controls to mitigate hazards, allowing us to fail safely and learn ways  to improve.  Preventing SIF Events In 2023, AEP continued efforts to prevent SIF events by building on our prevention  program to identify and mitigate high-energy hazards. We placed emphasis on  learning from the high-energy events we experienced with a""
""goal of preventing  a recurrence. In 2023, we documented and shared more than 25 alerts with  applicable business units that provided information on what occurred and what  lessons were learned to help us improve together. We also utilized our Good Catch  program to share proactive reporting of high-energy hazards before they caused an  adverse event. Additionally, in effort to build employees ability to recognize hazards,  we continued to integrate the SIF “High-Energy” icons to provide visual""
""cues to help  employees remember to look for high-energy hazards to put controls in place. CORE Visits Coaching through Observation, Recognition and Engagement (CORE) Visits are  one of the most effective ways for leaders to engage employees in the field. These  visits serve multiple purposes: validating hazard recognition, discussing prevention  methods, recognizing best practices, and offering coaching for continuous  improvement. They provide valuable insight into enhancing our safety""
""performance  through this proactive effort.  Achieving ongoing success, however, requires a more thorough review of specific  aspects of our work processes. We leverage the Targeted CORE Visit Assessment  process to provide a more structured approach to our field engagements to  ensure that controls and procedures are understood and implemented through all  operations. In 2023, we centered our Targeted CORE Visit Assessment efforts on  the pre-job briefing process, which first required""
""evaluating leaders’ knowledge  of the topic and establishing baseline levels of understanding of the pre-job  70 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports briefing process. After the knowledge evaluation was completed, we developed  requirements and expectations for addressing hazards and mitigation plans.  Leaders then used this as a guide for conversations and observations at each site  to assess crews’ pre-job""
""briefings.   Additionally, we launched the CORE Visit Effectiveness Review program with a  goal to evaluate and review CORE Visits for quality and engagement. The CORE  Visit Effectiveness Review program paired approximately 60 senior leaders with  supervisors from across the organization for conversations about their CORE Visits.  Leaders sought to learn about the quality of the supervisors’ visits and any gaps  that might exist. More than 500 of these senior leader-supervisor conversations""
""The newly established Strike Team was created to build an effective relationship  with AEP’s largest vegetation management partner. Vegetation management is  a challenging and dangerous task made more difficult by AEP’s service territory.  The Strike Team consists of safety and health leadership from both AEP and our  contractor whose common goal is to improve communication. The objective is  to improve the safety culture by providing a systematic partnership that creates  consistent actions and""
""alignment  2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 71  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP 72 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report with established policies and procedures. In addition to increased CORE visits,  we launched a contractor safety evaluation campaign and created a process  to determine the effectiveness of contractor safety and health programs. We  collaborated with contractors and conducted detailed performance evaluations  to ensure""
""Pluto, and in-store retail screens.  We also support our first responders including police, EMTs and firefighters who  are often exposed to electrical hazards. In 2023, AEP developed a set of resources  to educate them about the potential electrical dangers while on scene of an  emergency and ways to identify and handle these hazards safely. The resources  included guidance on understanding and responding to common electrical  emergencies, and tools and tips on working around electrical hazards""
""such as  downed power lines and electrical facility fires to help keep everyone safe in these  situations. It also included self-directed electrical safety certification training  to help emergency responders identify and respond safely to incidents involving  our electrical system. Additionally, AEP has a dedicated website specifically for  construction, agriculture, utilities and trades workers who may come into contact  with our lines and facilities. It provides useful information and""
""Marsh, Vice president, Safety and Health  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 73 each due to electrical contact. Any public fatality reinforces our already-strong commitment to educating our  communities, bringing awareness to hazards they may face and identifying new ways to keep everyone safe. Workforce Safety & Security  We believe every employee should feel safe and secure while at work – whether in the""
""in very candid interviews. The videos and discussion  guides were then shared across AEP to help  generate meaningful and honest discussions about  safety and health at AEP. ‘Because We Care’ means that we are all a part of  something that’s bigger than our individual selves,”  said Peggy Simmons, executive vice president,  Utilities. “We all have loved ones waiting for us  when we get home, and we want to be able to  deliver on that promise.”  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People""
""development • Measure Employee Resource Group participation and effectiveness • Measure inclusion progress through annual employee culture survey Community Well-Being Support the communities we serve so they will prosper • Increase volunteerism and amplify community impact stories across service territories • Increase spend with small and diverse businesses within our communities Culture & Inclusion Guiding Principles   About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data &""
""demonstrates  that our company values and respects all employees. AEP analyzes pay variances  for female and minority employees after controlling for factors such as job title,  years of service (time in job and time outside of job), estimated prior experience and  average performance ratings. Potential individual female and minority employee   Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP 76 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report wage disparities are""
""2023 AEP Employee Representation  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 77 identifying and participating in community volunteerism opportunities, building  cultural competency among our employees and positively impacting the business.  They have formed local groups to meet employee needs, built connections through  involvement with the Special Olympics, and supported local communities through  volunteer""
""Directors, had 67% diverse representation, with women  accounting for 50% of its members at the end of 2023.     Executive/Senior Leadership Diversity – 2023 Represents employees in an executive/senior level position. Male  76% Female 24% White 87% Minority 13%  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP Governance Strong corporate governance plays an important role in ensuring ethical, fair and  transparent business practices. Leadership and governance""
""are foundational to  building and strengthening sustained business value while balancing the challenges  of a changing society and the interests of investors, management, employees and  other stakeholders. 79        Sustainability Governance 83   Ethics & Compliance 85         Risk Management 87     Political Engagement 89        Enterprise Security  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 79 Sustainability""
""human capital management, safety and  health, climate change, workforce culture, technology, and cyber and physical security.  Sustainable business practices, including sustainability-related risks, issues and opportunities, are integrated  within our operations and business plans and discussed by the Board of Directors and its committees throughout  the year. This includes the Committee on Directors and Corporate Governance (Governance Committee) that  oversees AEP’s Corporate Sustainability""
""Report and sustainability performance – complimented by work  conducted by other committees. AEP’s Vice President and Chief Sustainability Officer reports to the Governance  Committee at least twice a year. In addition, the Chair of AEP’s Board of Directors conducts annual governance  outreach with some of our largest institutional shareholders. The Chair of the Board and the Chief Executive  Officer also engage on these issues throughout the year with investors and other stakeholders.  AEP also""
""has structured oversight to support sustainability performance and disclosure at the management level.  This includes cross-functional management committees and councils that focus on sustainability-related issues,  including an Enterprise Sustainability Council (ESC), a Corporate ESG Steering Committee and a Climate Change  Executive Group. Board Changes In 2024, AEP appointed two new Board members – Hunter C. Gary, senior managing director at Icahn Enterprises  LP, and Henry P. Linginfelter,""
""service to our customers.    Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP 80 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report Sustainability Governance & Oversight Executive Leadership Team | Executive/Senior Leader Working Committees & Councils Risk  Executive  Committee  Climate  Change  Executive  Group Reliability  Compliance  Strategy Team Reliability  Compliance  Committee Safety &  Health  Committee Culture &  Inclusion  Council Social Issues  Advisory""
""Council Environmental  & Social Justice  Advisory Team Third-Party Risk  Governance  Committee Corporate  Compliance Disclosure  Committee Executive  Policy  Advisory  Committee Vice President & Chief Sustainability Officer | Cross-Functional Working Committees & Councils Enterprise Sustainability Council Members represent all aspects of our business, serving as strategic ambassadors and  providing guidance and support to ensure the success of our sustainable development  strategy. They do this""
""by integrating sustainability across the enterprise and in corporate  strategy. Corporate ESG Steering Committee A cross-functional committee of the Company that will assist the enterprise regarding ESG matters,  including increasing understanding of all three dimensions – environmental, social and governance –  across AEP. The ESG Steering Committee provides a structured advisory forum to identify and address  ESG-related issues (risks, opportunities, threats, etc.) that could affect AEP""
""corporate  compliance; Corporate  Sustainability Report; and  political engagement. Executive Committee Acts on behalf  of the Board of  Directors in handling  matters that need  immediate attention. Finance Committee Oversees monitoring  capital requirements,  capital deployment and  financing plans and  programs of AEP and  its subsidiaries; and  short- and long-term  financing plans and  programs of AEP and  its subsidiaries. Human Resources  Committee Oversees CEO &  senior executive goals,""
""performance, salaries and  compensation; employee  incentive, long-term and  equity compensation plans;  benefit programs; culture  and employee engagement;  diversity and inclusion  strategy and compliance;  succession planning; and  human capital risks. Nuclear Oversight  Committee Oversees management,  operation, safety,  reliability of nuclear  operations; compliance  with nuclear safety,  operations and  environmental laws  and regulations; and  control or mitigation  of nuclear risks.""
""Technology Committee Oversees AEP’s IT and  cybersecurity strategy,  investments and internal  and external labor  strategy; frameworks  and programs to identify,  assess, manage and  mitigate cybersecurity  and IT risks and a  response framework  to address disruptive  incidents. Policy Oversight Regular oversight of policy matters affecting the AEP system, including receiving updates from outside experts on significant public policy issues.  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our""
""Annual shareholder outreach program Charter does not contain poison pill Board of Director information as of April 23, 2024 Board Fact Sheet   Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP 82 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report Skills, Qualifications & Experiences* # of  Directors Senior Executive Leadership & Business Strategy: CEO or significant senior experience with an understanding of complex organizations, strategic planning,  risk management, human""
""capital management and corporate governance.  12 Finance or Accounting: Experience in accounting or finance, including oversight of financial reporting and internal controls of a company, and capital  allocation. 4 Innovation & Technology: Management or oversight experience in technological trends, digital platforms, cybersecurity, and development of new  technologies, including those that result from shifting energy policy and environmental regulations. 6 Regulated Industry Experience:""
""Experience in the utility or energy industries, nuclear energy operations or in other highly regulated industries, including  experience with the risks and public policy issues associated with the electric utility industry. 10 Government, Legal & Environmental Affairs: Experience in law, government, public policy or environmental affairs and understanding of effective strategies  in these areas. 5 Industrial Operations & Safety Experience: Experience managing maintenance and growth investments""
""Cybersecurity & Physical Security: Experience overseeing the security of business and operational technical systems and physical assets. 6 Details a focus area or expertise a director has identified as core and on which the Board particularly relies. This summary is not an exhaustive list of director’s skills or contributions to the Board and does not  mean additional directors do not have that qualification or skill. See the proxy for more information.  About AEP Energy Transition Environment""
""Employee awareness was increased by leveraging multiple  channels of communication around the disclosure process, which included an  internal news article, Instructions Guide, Hot Spot, Coffee with Compliance and  Disclosure Brochure. All employees are also required to complete a Disclosure  Acknowledgement, recognizing their duty to disclose and update any potential  conflicts.  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP 84 • 2024 Corporate""
""compliance matters through a  confidential 24/7/365 hotline.  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 85 Risk Management Risks and threats are inevitable aspects of every business that require diligent monitoring, management and  mitigation. Whether the threat is universal – posing a risk to every business, such as security breaches and supply  chain shortages and disruptions – or the threat is more industry-""
""specific, such as extreme weather and skilled  labor shortage, companies require dynamic and agile risk management efforts to identify and mitigate these  threats. As we navigate an unpredictable future, we must identify the appropriate levels of risk-management while  simultaneously detecting, preventing and mitigating new potential risks and weaknesses. This is imperative  to keep pace with the ever-changing environment. AEP’s enterprise risk management process focuses on  establishing a""
""Responding to Risks Identifying and reducing the likelihood of risks occurring is one part of the equation; it is equally important to be  prepared to respond to and recover from risks if they do materialize. Our resilience strategy aims to reduce the  Risk Impact Assessment Risk Identification  Find, recognize and  describe the risk. Risk Analysis  Understand the nature of the risk. Risk Evaluation & Scoring  Determine likelihood and impact. Escalation Process  Significant risks are escalated""
""(if  necessary).  Risk Mitigation Identification of options  to lessen the severity. Risk Monitoring  Continuous review in consideration of  changing conditions.  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP 86 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report hazard-specific plans aligned to our emergency management framework to manage  the strategic response. Business unit and operating company-specific resilience  plans are in place to protect our critical and non-""
""critical processes to support  continuity of operations during business disruptions. Wildfire Risk Intense wildfire activity across North America throughout 2023 and in early 2024  demonstrated the devastating impacts and reinforced the importance of having  protocols and policies in place to mitigate fire risk. AEP takes precautions to ensure  we deliver safe, reliable electricity to our customers, which includes performing  annual assessments of wildfire risk. We also regularly review our""
""operations to  ensure we have plans and processes in place to limit the risk of wildfires caused by  electrical equipment.  AEP teams in the field and in our control centers continually evaluate conditions  that pose a risk to the electric grid and potentially the public. We have operational  protocols and technologies in place that allow us to manage the risks associated  with AEP facilities being impacted by or triggering a fire. This helps us determine if  and what action is needed, such as""
""proactively declaring conservative operations  in these areas, adjusting work practices that could trigger fires, or even modifying  power flows on our grid, including removing impacted lines from service and  redirecting power to other lines. Additionally, there would be changes to how  equipment that automatically reenergizes lines operates.  impact from an event and return to normal operations. To manage resilience, AEP  has three strategies in place: 1.       Enterprise Preparedness &""
""it does occur. We try to anticipate high-impact, high-probability  events to prepare for the ripple effects they could have and to limit the negative  consequences. This includes developing all-hazards, functional-based plans and   About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 87 in the first round of the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Grid Resilience and  Innovation Partnership (GRIP) program, one of which led to a""
""successful award of  approximately $27 million to implement innovative smart grid technology that will  improve service for AEP customers across all 11 states in which we operate. Since  that time, AEP’s grant office has collaborated with operating company staff to submit  concept papers for the DOE’s second GRIP round.  Another benefit of the IIJA funding was the DOE’s 40101(d) program, “Formula  Grants to States and Indian Tribes for Preventing Outages and Enhancing the  Resilience of the""
""Electric Grid.” AEP’s grants office reviews each relevant opportunity  through the 40101(d) grant program. This program led to additional grant  opportunities in Michigan, Indiana and Ohio, with more expected in the coming year.  Through the landmark IIJA funding, these grant programs have provided electric  utilities with the unique chance to provide grid benefits to their customers, enhance  reliability and increase resilience of the nation’s energy grid.  As a regulated business operating in""
""and facilitate the energy transition requires engagement with  policymakers and regulators at the federal, state and local levels. Electric utilities  are among the most-regulated industries in our country. We adhere to rules and  regulations and understand that state and federal policies define the parameters of  our current operations and future planning.  AEP has a long-term strategy to invest in a modern, reliable energy system to meet  the evolving needs of our customers while keeping""
""electricity rates affordable. We  know rapidly evolving policy initiatives at all levels of government could have a  major impact on how we do our work. It is important that we educate policymakers  and regulators and advocate for the best outcomes for our customers and other  stakeholders.  This is a very critical time because now, more than ever, policies and regulations are  defining the roadmap for the energy transition. Governments’ decisions could impact  how and when we invest, and the""
""ways we generate electricity, modernize the grid  and incorporate new technologies. AEP identifies and researches emerging public  policy topics to best understand their impacts on our customers and our business.  We use our internal subject matter experts to provide insights and guidance and  create materials to guide discussions with policymakers, regulators and other  stakeholders, including investors, in accordance with our enhanced policies and  processes.    For example, the passage of the""
""bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs  Act (IIJA) demonstrates how energy and infrastructure-focused legislation  can impact our business. It presented several federal and state grant funding  opportunities for energy projects, which AEP staff have thoughtfully reviewed  and vetted for alignment and eligibility in both service corporation and operating  company initiatives. We pursue these grant programs when they match our  business objectives, bring value to customers, balance costs""
""with policy objectives  and align with regulatory expectations. To that end, AEP submitted applications   Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP 88 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report lobbying and advocacy actions. We are transparent about our political contributions and lobbying activities. We  recognize that there is growing public interest in such activities, and we are committed to enhanced disclosures.  That’s why in 2023 we committed to""
""political engagement and lobbying activities.  Learn more about Political Engagement and Lobbying at AEP.   AEP Political Activity Disclosure  •         AEP Political Engagement Policy •       AEP Semi-Annual Report of Corporate Political and Social Welfare Organization Contributions   and Trade Association Lobbying •  AEP Anti-Corruption Policy •    Federal Quarterly Lobbying Reports •    AEP Trade Association Climate Lobbying Report  In 2023, AEP was recognized as a trendsetter for""
""transparency in the CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate  Political Disclosure and Accountability.  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 89 the number and sophistication of controls to manage and prioritize evolving NERC  obligations. AEP consistently monitors and evaluates internal and external threats,  mitigating these concerns through proactive Risk Management Plans. AEP’s  infrastructure is a major component of""
""the nation’s BES. As such, we are constantly  being audited by ReliabilityFirst, Texas Reliability Entity and Midwest Regional  Organization, which in turn are governed by NERC and ultimately by the Federal  Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), requiring us to maintain a state of audit  readiness across AEP for all NERC Standards.  In addition to regulatory oversight, AEP has a multi-level governance structure that  focuses on managing reliability and security risk across the entire system.""
""AEP’s  Enterprise NERC Reliability Assurance (ENRA) organization manages the NERC  Compliance Program to ensure all applicable NERC Standards are being adequately  addressed across the system to achieve a “one AEP” approach and operational  excellence. The governance structure for the NERC Reliability Assurance Program is  governed by the following three committees:  •        Reliability Compliance Committee (RCC) – Consisting of executive vice  presidents.  •   Reliability Compliance Strategy""
""the largest electric utilities in the U.S., it is our duty to ensure  uninterrupted power supply to our customers 24/7. Which is why the mission  of AEP’s Security Team is to equip the enterprise with the knowledge needed to  select and implement security controls that protect our workforce and increase the  confidentiality, safety and integrity of AEP’s assets. The nation’s power grid faces  many threats, including extreme weather, vandalism, terrorism, cyberattacks and  insider threats. Each""
""Senior O&P Manager responsible  for all NERC O&P compliance. AEP takes a risk-based approach to mitigate potential reliability risk, which includes  both cyber and physical security. We continually assess and proactively increase   Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP 90 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report •  AEP’s technology framework and programs are designed to manage and  mitigate risks related to cybersecurity, IT and associated operational""
""through Cyber Mutual  Assistance (CMA).   About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 91 Security Awareness & Training  Our most important partners in protecting AEP’s cyber and physical security are our employees. Our Security  Awareness program reduces risk by promoting security best practices and providing awareness education and  training to our employees and contractors. Our mission is to protect AEP’s assets and""
""requested bank account change. The  vendor is now investigating the source of the fraudulent  email. Shawne’s vigilance and actions likely saved both  AEP and the vendor from financial loss. His dedication  to security led to him being chosen for AEP’s Security  Recognition Program which recognizes employees efforts  to protect the company from potential threats.  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP Data Privacy & Protection  We believe that strong""
""disclosure, retention, destruction and loss of data.  92 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports Management and Governance of Physical and Cyber Threats  The reliability of the bulk electric system – which includes both cyber and physical security – is highly regulated by the federal government through North American Electric  Reliability Corporation’s (NERC) Critical Infrastructure Protection (CIP) and""
""efforts.  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP 94 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report Threat Threat Management Governance  Supply Chain Security AEP clearly defines security expectations of vendors in our Master  Service Agreement and, when appropriate, a Security Supplement.  Vendors are evaluated and assigned a risk rank on all purchases  of services or technology that may access AEP assets to determine  the depth and frequency of risk""
""risk identification,  assessment and management. This program ensures all  vendor-related risks are identified and addressed for all  products, goods and services procured and/or implemented  by AEP. Physical & Cyber Asset Vulnera- bility We test our operational response to potential power grid vulner- abilities or emergencies through GridEx exercises developed by  NERC. These exercises complement our annual exercises, allowing  us to practice and prepare our response to national level emergen-""
""approach allows  AEP to holistically discuss issues, tactics and solutions to  ensure secure and reliable operations of AEP’s Cloud imple- mentations. Management and Governance of Physical and Cyber Threats (Continued)  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 95  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP Data & Reports At AEP, we understand the importance of providing""
""clear, accurate and consistent  data and information in a timely manner. Our disclosure includes an annual Corporate  Sustainability Report and ESG Data Center, which features a three-year trend on  approximately 250 of the most requested ESG metrics. In addition, we publish several  supplemental reports leveraging guidance from voluntary reporting standards and  industry efforts to meet the unique needs of our stakeholders. 96        ESG Data Center 119   ESG Reports & Policies  About AEP""
""Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports ESG Data Center Operational & Financial Total Purchased Nameplate Generation Capacity — — 5,191    Coal — — 1,531    Natural Gas — — 260    Nuclear — — 0    Total Renewable Energy Resources — — 3,400       Hydroelectric — — 80       Solar — — 67       Wind — — 3,253 Other — — 0 2021 2022 2023 Total Owned Net Generation 24,857 25,050 23,308 Coal 11,858 11,263 10,711 Natural Gas 7,615 7,613 7,596 Nuclear 2,296 2,296 2,296""
""Total Renewable Energy Resources 3,088 3,858 2,686    Hydroelectric 805 805 816    Solar 362 369 231    Wind 1,921 2,684 1,639 Other 0 20 20 Owned Generation Capacity (MW) Data reflects year-end capacity Generation Capacity Purchased Generation Capacity (MW) 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 97  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP ESG Data Center Operational & Financial 98 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report 2021 2022 2023 Total Owned &""
""Purchased Generation  Capacity (MW) — — 28,499 Coal — — 12,242 Natural Gas — — 7,856 Nuclear — — 2,296 Total Renewable Energy Resources — — 6,086    Hydroelectric — — 896    Solar — — 298    Wind — — 4,892 Other — — 20 Total Owned & Purchased  Generation Capacity (MW) Generation Capacity  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports ESG Data Center Operational & Financial Purchased Power Agreement  Net Generation (MWh) Generation Owned Net Generation (MWh)""
""2021 2022 2023 Total Owned Net Generation 82,567,070 78,674,590 70,483,008    Coal 45,052,460 37,058,587 28,858,441    Natural Gas 13,077,646 14,740,697 16,826,181    Nuclear 17,960,716 16,621,031 18,640,118    Total Renewable Energy Resources 6,476,248 10,254,275 6,158,268          Hydroelectric 860,163 623,425 573,954          Solar 745,647 840,748 415,907          Wind 4,870,438 8,790,102 5,168,407 Total Purchased Generation 16,425,967 17,309,059 17,943,021    Coal 4,549,389 6,763,991""
""8,041,532    Natural Gas 2,969,042 1,151,496 940,530    Nuclear 0 0 0    Total Renewable Generation 8,907,536 9,393,572 8,960,959          Hydro 139,780 212,325 170,219          Solar 24,183 80,972 117,467          Wind 8,743,573 9,100,275 8,673,273 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 99  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP Total Purchased Power Net Generation  From Unknown Sources This data represents AEP’s short term  energy purchases 2021""
""2022 2023 Total Net Generation 98,993,037 95,983,649 88,426,029    Coal 49,601,849 43,822,578 36,899,973    Natural Gas 16,046,688 15,892,193 17,766,711    Nuclear 17,960,716 16,621,031 18,640,118    Total Renewable Generation 15,383,784 19,647,847 15,119,227       Hydro 999,943 835,750 744,173       Solar 769,830 921,720 533,374       Wind 13,614,011 17,890,377 13,841,680 Purchased Power From Unknown Generation Sources 49,886,750 57,826,824 47,862,582 ESG Data Center Operational & Financial""
""Generation Total Net Generation (MWh) Owned Generation & Purchased  Power Agreements Facility Energy Consumption Not inclusive of all AEP facilities 2021 2022 2023 Facility Energy Consumption (KWh) 104,334,588 100,582,993 95,016,825 Percent Reduction (since 2007 baseline) 37.55% 37.94% 41.40% 100 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports ESG Data Center Operational & Financial Grid Overview Grid Relibility""
""224,000 225,000 225,000 2021 2022 2023 Residential 4,735,221 4,755,584 4,787,958 Commercial 732,211 736,491 735,123 Industrial 45,741 45,189 44,540 Other 30,294 30,599 30,690 Total 5,543,467 5,567,863 5,598,311 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 101  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP Residential Energy Affordability Transactions 621,456 713,893 559,018 Energy Assistance Funds Provided to Low-Income  Customers $134.8 million 218.1 million""
""$110.6 million Number of Agency Pledges Made Online 31,174 59,149 52,956 Amount contributed to Agency Pledges for Energy  Assistance $15.2 million $25.6 million $19.7 million Total Number of Disconnects 418,328 497,774 570,175    Total Reconnects within 7 days 340,595 413,928 474,488    Residential Reconnects within 7 days 328,516 399,258 456,065    Total Residential Customer Disconnects 402,779 484,471 555,999 ESG Data Center Operational & Financial Customer Disconnects Customer Customers""
""Assistance The 2023 decrease in assistance is  due to government funding support  returning to pre-Covid levels 2021 2022 2023 Percent of Total Meters Deployed (Smart Meters) 63% 72% 78% Annual Investments in Energy Efficiency Programs $95,681,983 $86,806,298 $101,682,125 Incremental Annual Electricity Savings from Energy Efficiency Meters (MWh) 406,737 349,952 492,506 Annual Demand Savings (MW) 197 183 269 Avoided CO2 Emissions (US Tons) 204,621 207,287 229,158 Number of Residential Customers""
""Participating in Energy Efficiency Programs 266,562 331,644 961,988 Customer Energy Efficiency  Programs & Smart Meters Energy efficiency data uses  estimated values 102 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 103 Jobs Supported by AEP’s Economic and Business  Development Efforts (Direct and Indirect) 37,899 22,998 25,599  Economic Development Contributions 1 $1,088,522""
""Expenditures/Investments  (normal dollars) $6,547 million $7,982 million $6,902 million ESG Data Center Operational & Financial Financial Data Economic Employee Wages Taxes Paid Earnings Performance Economic and Business Development 12021 and 2022 data was restated due to a maturing reporting process  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP ESG Data Center Environment 104 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report Total Scope Emissions (MT CO2e) 35,589,477""
""41,759,164 40,349,289 Category 1: Purchased Goods and Services (MT CO2e) 595,845 527,681 2,293,613 3 Category 3: Fuel-and-energy-related activities (MT CO2e) 34,962,336 41,198,607 38,023,762 Category 6: Business Travel (MT CO2e) 6,215 7,847 6,529 Category 7: Employee Commuting (MT CO2e) 25,081 25,029 25,385 Scope 1&2 Emission Intensity (MT CO2e/Owned and  Purchased Power Agreement Net MWh generated) 4 0.5707 0.5371 0.5039 Scope 1 and 2 intensity (MT CO2e/total revenue $) 4 0.00336 0.00263""
""0.00235 Scope 3 GHG Emissions Emissions Intensity Location Based (MT CO2e) 318,776 368,484 1,209,340 Market Based (MT CO2e) 323,580 349,935 1,200,698 Total Scope 2 Emissions (MT CO2e)2 2021 2022 2023 Total Scope 1 Emissions CO2e (MT) 56,179,500 1 51,192,510 1 43,351,137 CO2 (MT) 55,612,321 50,678,735 42,876,575 N2O (MT CO2e) 225,739 200,497 159,937 CH4 (MT CO2e) 163,629 146,796 117,170 SF6 (MT CO2e) 177,8111 166,842 1 197,454 Scope 1 Emissions GHG CO2e Emissions 1 2021 and 2022 SF6 data restated""
""and submitted to the EPA  2 Increase in 2023 Scope 2 emissions due to the inclusion of line losses associated with wheeled power. 3 Increase in 2023 Scope 3 Category 1 emissions due to broadening original scope of purchased goods       and the introduction of purchased services. 4 Scope 2 intensity uses location-based figure  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports 2021 2022 20231 SO2 (MT) 33,987 29,819 24,486 SO2 (Lbs) 74,928,901 57,738,948 53,982,672""
""NOx (MT) 26,926 25,775 27,540 NOx (Lbs) 59,362,878 56,824,435 60,715,624 Mercury Emissions to Air (Lbs) 2 256 218 185 Mercury Emissions to Air (kg) 2 116 98 84 ESG Data Center Environment Other Emissions Breakdown Emissions 1 2023 SO2 , NOx and mercury data  updated to include OVEC and IKEC            facilities. Current year mercury data is preliminary and will be updated        once finalized with the EPA. 2021 2022 2023 Total Water Withdrawal (Million Gallons/day) 4,276 2,481 3,824 Total""
""Water Withdrawal (Million Gallons/year) 1,560,629 905,689 1,395,849 Total Water Withdrawal (Millions of m3/year) 5,908 3,428 5,284 Total Water Withdrawal Total water withdrawal now includes  surface, ground (self), municipal and  Comanche Plant Water 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 105  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP ESG Data Center Environment  1 Excludes groundwater, municipal and Comanche Plant water withdrawal 2 Represents Comanche""
""Plant Withdrawal 2021 2022 2023 Surface Water Withdrawal (Million Gallons/day) 1 4,272 2,476 3,818 Surface Water Withdrawal (Million Gallons/year) 1 1,559,368 903,816 1,393,579 Surface Water Withdrawal (Millions of m3/year) 1 5,903 3,421 5,275 Groundwater (m3/year) 3,975,163 5,075,675 5,373,531 Other (m3/year) 2 794,646 1,595,492 3,129,877 Water Withdrawal by  Source Breakdown Water Water Withdrawal Intensity (Gallons/Net MWh) 20,736 13,493 22,993 Water Withdrawal Intensity (Billions of""
""liters/Net MWh)  0.00008 0.000051 0.000086 Consumptive Water Use Intensity (Gallons/Net MWh)  780 314 322 Non-Consumptive Water Use Intensity (Gallons/Net MWh) 37,917 13,183 15,024 Non-Consumptive Water Use Intensity (Billions of liters/ Net MWh) 0.00014 0.00005 0.00006 Total Water Consumption (Million Gallons/day) 161 58 53 Total Water Consumption (Million Gallons/year) 58,702 21,079 19,475 Total Water Consumption (Millions of m3/year) 222 80 74 Total Water Discharge (Million Gallons/day) 4,119""
""2,424 2,492 Total Water Discharge (Million Gallons/year) 1,503,402 884,841 909,406 Total Water Discharge (Millions of m3/year) 5,690,995 3,349,489 3,422,475 Water Discharge All water discharge represents  surface water discharge. Water Consumption All water consumption is freshwater. Water Intensity AEP does not include renewable MWhs  in intensity metrics because water  is not used in the renewable energy  process. Plants that AEP only has partial  ownership are also excluded as AEP  does not""
""control their operations. 106 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports Total CCPs Generated (U.S. Tons)  3,439,697 2,791,489 2,285,380 Total CCPs Diverted from Landfill U.S. Tons 1,069,923 1,197,682 1,024,890 Total  Avoided Disposal Costs $17,829,733 $20,131,599 $17,266,243 Total CCP Revenues Generated $11,938,635 $12,084,787 $11,037,713 Total CCP Diverted from Landfill Percent 31% 43% 45% 2021 2022 2023 Total""
""Hazardous Disposed Waste (Lbs) — — 47,846 Scrap Metal Recycled (Lbs) 39,321,951 37,563,314 53,375,947 Batteries Recycled (Lbs) 176,880 64,645 156,654 Electronic Waste Recycled (Lbs) 1 18,857 11,908 240,000 Light Bulbs Recycled (Lbs) 51,441 38,746 32,978 Used Oil Recycled (Gallons) 233,325 389,894 1,163,247 Coal Combustion Products ESG Data Center Environment Hazardous Waste Waste Recycled Waste 2021 2022 2023 Required mitigation habitat acres supporting biodiversity 29,752 30,180 30,343""
""Voluntary mitigation habitat acres supporting biodiversity 251,115 253,668 253,602 Required mitigation habitat acres supporting biodiversity  and pollinators 27 107 107 Voluntary mitigation habitat acres supporting biodiversity  and pollinators  260 262 396 Protected Habitat Data represents cumulative  totals of protected, enhanced  and restored habitat at the end  of data year Biodiversity  1E-Waste increased in 2023 as a result of restarting our computer life cycle program post Covid 2024""
""Corporate Sustainability Report • 107  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP Education 30.3% 26.9% 27.5% Community Vitality 12.0% 17.1% 17.9% Hunger & Housing 14.4% 11.9% 15.0% Safety & Health 13.9% 7.3% 11.2% Arts & Culture 8.1% 6.9% 8.3% Diversity & Inclusion/Social Justice 3.3% 6.3% 8.0% Other 17.9% 23.9% 12.2% Total Charitable Giving $35,109,340 $41,122,942 $31,660,132 Number of Organizations Receiving Charitable Giving — — 1,789 2021 2022 2023""
""Total Employee Volunteer Hours — — 31,207 Percentage of Employees Registered to participate in  Volunteer Activities — — 19% ESG Data Center Social Percent of Charitable Giving  by Area of Focus Volunteerism Charitable Giving Community Impact 108 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports ESG Data Center Social Charitable Giving Broken  Down by State Community Impact 2021 2022 2023 Arkansas $566,104 $512,688""
""Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP 2021 2022 2023 Total Number of Employees 16,688 16,974 17,250    Number of Full-time Employees 16,658 16,940 17,215    Number of Part-time Employees 30 34 35 Number of Represented Employees 3,836 3,846 3,945    Percent of Represented Employees 23% 23% 23% Number of Veteran Employees 1,654 1,640 1,620    Percent of Veteran Employees 10% 10% 9%    Percent of Veteran New Hires 7% 6.57% 6.09% Total Number of Professionals""
""5,701 5,859 6,057 Total Number of First/Mid-Level Officials/Managers 2,982 3,142 3,157 Total Number of Executive/Senior-Level Officials 229 225 212 Traditionalists (1945 and Before) 0.07% 0.06% 0.04% Baby Boomers (1946-1964) 24% 20% 17% Generation X (1965-1980) 37% 37% 36% Millennials (1981-1996) 36% 38% 39% Generation Z (1997 & Beyond) 2% 5% 7% ESG Data Center Social Workforce Employee Type Workforce Demographics Employee Job Category 110 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report  About AEP Energy""
""Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports Total Minority Employees 3,240 3,433 3,551       Percent of Minority Employees 19% 20% 21%    Number of Minority Professionals 1,182 1,283 1,383       Percent of Minority Professionals 21% 22% 23%    Number of Minority First/Mid-Level Officials 417 440 447       Percent of Minority First/Mid-Level Officials 14% 14% 14%    Number of Minority Executive/Senior-Level Officials 27 29 27       Percent of Minority Executive/Senior-Level""
""Female Diversity Workforce Ethnic Diversity 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 111  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP Estimated Number of Hours of Employee  Training Tracked through Formal Training Programs 719,528 951,320 806,400 Employees Participating in Tuition Reimbursement 575 1,033 561 Amount Spent on Tuition Reimbursement $2,003,269 $3,256,579 $2,233,821 Number of Employees Receiving Career  Development Reviews 11,962 10,985 11,215""
""Involvement 2021 2022 2023 Number of Employees Participating in Employee  Resource Groups — — 1,840 Percentage of Employees Participating in Employee  Resource Groups — — 11% ESG Data Center Social Employee Development 112 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports 2021 2022 2023 Transmission & Distribution Technical Training  Apprentices  — 993 1,572 Total External Transmission & Distribution Technical  Training""
""Opportunities/Promotions Workforce  1 As a percent of total employees 2 As a percent of total opportunities/promotions Apprentices, Co-Ops & Interns AEP helps train students from  outside organizations that  do not have internal training  programs. 2023 data not  limited to Department of Labor  registered apprentice programs. Workforce 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 113  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP 2021 2022 2023 Total Hires — 1,919""
""Employee Retention Rate 4 — 88.9% 91.9%    Minority Employee Retention Rate 5 — 89.5% 93.2% ESG Data Center Social Workforce Employee Hires, Retention & Turnover 1As a percent of total employees 2As a percent of total turnover 3As a percent of total active employees as of 1/1/23 4As a percent of total active female employees as of 1/1/23 5As a percent of total active minority employees as of 1/1/23 114 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our""
""People Governance Data & Reports Employee and Contractor DART Rate 0.419 0.430 0.382 Combined Employee & Contractor DART Events 136 150 132 Contractor DART Rate 0.407 0.438 0.380 Contractor DART Incidents 61 74 62 Total Contractor Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 1.026 0.941 1.006 Contractor Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) 0.213 0.296 0.190 Total Contractor OSHA Recordable Events 154 159 164 Contractor Fatalities 0 1 1 Employee and Contractor Metrics AEP Contractors includes Forestry ESG Data""
""Center Social Employee DART Rate 0.430 0.424 0.384 Employee DART Rate Incidents 75 76 70 Total Employee Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 0.648 0.719 0.690 Employee Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) 0.333 0.312 0.279 Total Employee OSHA Recordable Events 113 129 126 Employee Fatalities 0 1 2 2021 2022 2023 Public Fatalities Due to Electrical Contacts 5 2 6 Safety & Health Public Metrics Employee Metrics Contractor Metrics AEP Contractors includes Forestry 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 115""
""Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP ESG Data Center Social 2021 2022 2023 Total Supplier Spend $6.7 billion $8.5 billion $7.9 billion Managed Spend (Procurement Spend) $5.8 billion $7.4 billion $8.0 billion Diverse Supplier Spend $705 million $887 million $1.0 billion Percent Spend on Goods & Services from Diverse  Suppliers 1 12% 12%   13% Local Based Supplier Spend 2 $3.4 billion $4.1 billion $4.1 billion Percent Spend on Locally Based""
""Suppliers 3 51% 48% 52% Small Business Supplier Spend $964 million $1.3 billion $1.4 billion Percent Spend on Goods & Services from Small Business 3 14% 15% 17% Procurement Supplier Diversity 1As a percent of total managed spend  2The term “locally” is used to describe businesses registered in the traditional 11 states in which AEP operates. 3As a percent of total spend 116 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports""
""0-5 years 5 7 9 6-10 years 5 3 0 11-18 years 2 3 3 Average Years of Tenure 6.5 6.5   5.25 Director Tenure 2022 2023 2024 * Number of Board Meetings 7 8 8 Average Board Meeting Attendance 97% 97% 99% Total Number on the Board of Directors 12 13 12 Number of Independent Directors 11 11 11 Independent Lead Director No Yes NA Independent Board Chair No No Yes ESG Data Center Governance Governance Overview Governance 40s 0 0 1 50s 2 2 1 60s 8 9 9 70s 2 2 1 Board Average Age 64 63.5 63 Director Age""
""*As of March 31, 2024 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report • 117  Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports About AEP ESG Data Center Governance 2022 2023 2024 * Men 8 7 7 Women 4 6 5 Governance Director Gender White 9 9 8 Hispanic 2 2 2 African American or Black 1 2 2 Director Ethnic Diversity *As of March 31, 2024 118 • 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report  About AEP Energy Transition Environment Social Our People Governance Data & Reports ESG Data Center ESG""
""Reports & Policies Supplemental Environmental,  Social & Governance Reports  •         AEP’s Climate Impact Analysis Report - A TCFD  Report (March 2021) •    2024 GRI & SASB Report (ISSB S1) •      2024 EEI ESG Investor Report •  2024 EEI Customer Emissions Report - Online  Access •   2023 CDP Climate Report •       2023 CDP Water Report •         2024 EcoVadis Sustainability Scorecard •        2024 ESG Data Center  Financial Disclosures •   2024 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement •   2023 Annual""
""10K •       2023 Revenue from Coal •        2023 Coal Generation Rate Base •        Sustainable Finance Framework •         Second Party Opinion •  2023 Report of Corporate Political & Social  Welfare Organization Contributions and Trade  Association Lobbying Corporate Policies & Documents  •       Environment, Safety and Health Policy •         Anti-Corruption Policy •        Human Rights Policy •   AEP Political Engagement Policy •       AEP Trade Association Climate Lobbying Report •""
""Environment and Social Justice Policy •         AEP Principles of Business Conduct •    Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for  Directors •    AEP Supplier Code of Conduct •  Insider Trading Policy Internal AEP Policies  To help ensure the safety and security of AEP’s employees  and operations, several AEP policies are internal policies  and not shared publicly. AEP employees have access to  appropriate policies through AEP’s intranet site. •         Speak Up Policy (including Anti-Retaliation)""
