""Improving  Lives 2024 Sustainability Report  IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION 2 Table of Contents CEO Letter ............................................................... 3 Executive Summary..........................................4 About AES ...............................................................6 Our Business Strategy....................................9 Our Impact Framework""
""......................................................11 Energy Infrastructure: Flexibility Enabling  Growth............................................................................................12 Renewables: Fastest Time to Power...................... 13 Utilities: Powering Communities                                    and Industries........................................................................... 14 New Energy Technologies: Scaling Innovative""
""........................................................................35 Environmental Management            System......................................................................36 Our ambitions ......................................................37 Emissions ..............................................................38 Biodiversity ...........................................................39 Water ...........................................................................41 Waste""
""...........................................48 Disaster/Emergency Planning                                        and Response.........................................................................48 About this Report .............................................49 Our Priority Assessment...................................................51 GRI Index ....................................................................................52 SASB""
""reflect on 2024, I am proud to share the meaningful progress  AES has made accelerating the future of energy. Our success  was more than just our efforts to meet growing energy demand; it  was about building the reliable energy systems our communities,  industries, and economies rely on consistently. Across our markets,  we delivered enough electricity to meet the annual energy needs of  approximately 17 million people.   AES was once again named as the world’s #1 provider of clean  energy to""
""corporations in Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s (BNEF)  Corporate Energy Market Outlook. This ranking reflects not only the  strength of our portfolio, but the trust of our partners. Our best-in- class record of delivering renewable projects on time and on budget  is something that our customers value highly and is one of our  competitive advantages.   We also solidified our position as one of the top providers of energy  to data centers. The US Department of Energy expects data center""
""electricity demand to support Artificial Intelligence (AI) to grow at 28  percent per year through the end of the decade. We see continued  with signed contracts but not yet in operation), will power our  communities for years to come. We are a leading all-of-the-above  energy company with a portfolio of natural gas, coal, battery storage,  and renewable assets, including solar, hydro and onshore wind. This  breadth allows us to meet our customers' goals and the needs of our  markets in the most""
""efficient and low-carbon way possible.  Every project we deliver, every partnership we form, and every  community we support is grounded in our purpose to accelerate  the future of energy. From powering the AI revolution in the US and  Chile, to electrifying rural communities in El Salvador, we are focused  on creating real, lasting value for all our stakeholders. I invite you to  explore the stories, progress, and impact shared in this report to see  how we advanced our goal of improving lives""
""in 2024. Thank you for  your continued partnership and support.  Sincerely,  strong demand for renewables to power data centers given their  advantage in time to serve and cost. AES is uniquely positioned  to meet this surge and during 2024 signed 9.5 gigawatts (GW) of  agreements directly with technology customers, including long-term  power purchase agreements (PPAs) for clean energy and load growth  at our US utilities.   In 2024, we invested more than $1.6 billion across our utilities in El""
""Salvador and the US to modernize infrastructure, improve reliability,  and begin our coal-to-natural gas plant conversion at AES Indiana.  These investments support the continued delivery of reliable  and affordable power to our customers today, while building the  infrastructure that will support economic and digital transformation  tomorrow.   During the year, we completed construction of 3 GW of renewable  energy projects. We also brought our second combined cycle gas  plant in Panama online,""
""significantly enhancing the resilience of the  country’s power grid during drought conditions. Our diversified portfolio of generation assets, with 32 GW in  operation, together with our backlog of 12 GW of renewables (those  Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report  4 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Executive Summary  This report highlights our""
""progress and achievements in 2024, while  outlining our strategic approach to meeting growing energy demand  in 2025 and beyond.   This past year, we continued to deliver on our purpose of accelerating  the future of energy, together, by providing innovative, sustainable  solutions to meet evolving energy needs. Guided by our People- Planet-Accountability impact framework, we focused on improving  lives, delivering reliable energy, and operating with integrity across the  markets we serve.  To""
""meet the evolving needs and goals of our customers and  communities, we advanced our all-of-the-above energy approach,  integrating renewable and thermal generation, energy storage,  liquefied natural gas (LNG) infrastructure, and emerging technologies.  This diversified approach continues to ensure grid reliability and  energy security, critical to economic growth and resilience across the  markets where we operate.  AES is uniquely positioned to meet the rising electricity demand  driven by""
""the electrification of industry and our customers’ rapid  energy demand growth in sectors such as AI and mining. We  are expanding our partnerships with leading global technology  companies, with ~70 percent of PPA signings in 2024 with corporate  customers. Our leadership in renewable energy was once again  recognized by BNEF, naming AES the #1 provider of clean energy to  corporations globally.   We added 3 GW of renewable energy to our portfolio, commissioned  a 670 MW combined cycle natural""
""gas plant, and exited or announced  the sale of 1 GW of coal generation. These milestones helped us  accelerate our transformation, with solar and wind generation growing  by over 25 percent, while coal-fired generation fell to less than 30  percent of total production. Equally important, in 2024 we exceeded  safety performance benchmarks and had zero fatalities among our  more than 27,000 employees and contractors, underscoring our  strong culture of safety and accountability.  Our impact goes""
""beyond capacity added or energy generated.  In 2024, we generated enough electricity to meet the annual  consumption needs of 17 million people, while reducing our Scope 1  emissions by 17 percent and lowering our carbon intensity compared  to 2023. Through more than 500 community initiatives, we reached  around 1.9 million people, supporting access to energy, workforce  development, and disaster resilience, among others.   Our achievements are driven by our ongoing commitment to  innovation, a""
""defining characteristic of AES that continues to set us  apart in the industry. We pride ourselves in helping our customers  address complex energy challenges by integrating advanced  technologies into tailored innovative solutions.  More than 15 years  ago, AES pioneered the first grid-scale lithium-ion battery storage  systems, laying the foundation for what is now a critical pillar in  meeting global energy demand. Batteries were included in 65 percent  of our new renewable projects last""
""year, underscoring how essential  energy storage is to renewable integration. Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report  5 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION This spirit of innovation continues to earn industry recognition. AES  is the only seven-time winner of the Edison Electric Institute’s Edison  Awards in the twenty-first century, a distinction""
""honoring global  leadership in advancing the electric power industry. We were proud  to be named as a 2024 Edison Award finalist for the Meanguera del  Golfo project in El Salvador, a solar-plus-battery storage system for  remote island communities. We continued to push the boundaries of  innovation with the launch of Maximo, our AI-enabled solar installation  robot that enhances safety, speed, and precision while reducing  physical strain on our construction teams.   Behind every success is our""
""consecutive year,  highlighting our dedication to integrity, transparency, and responsible       business practices.   From the Atacama Desert in South America to our utilities’ service  areas in the Midwest of the US, our people work alongside partners  and communities to deliver reliable, sustainable energy solutions that  are transforming lives and powering economies. With every connection we make and  every innovation we deploy, we continue  to drive progress toward a smarter and  more""
""resilient future for generations           to come. Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report  6 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION About AES Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report  7 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES""
""utmost integrity towards our  people, contractors, customers, partners and  communities, and hold the solutions we deliver  together to global standards of excellence. All together We work as one team across our business  and with our people, contractors, customers,  partners and communities.  AES at the end of 2024  In 1981, Roger Sant and Dennis Bakke turned their vision of delivering  world-class energy solutions into reality with the founding of AES.  From our first power plant in Texas to""
""our current global generation  capacity of 32 GW, we align our initiatives with our purpose of  accelerating the future of energy, together and our ultimate goal of  improving lives, by providing the energy solutions the world needs.  Headquartered in Arlington, Virginia, AES is the largest US-based  global power company with a diverse team of approximately 9,100  employees across 12 countries, as of the end of 2024. We have  consistently delivered innovative solutions and new technologies  to""
""create value for our customers, and support the markets and  communities where we live and work. In 2024, by leveraging our scale  and expertise, we generated enough electricity to power the needs of  17 million people across our markets. Natural Gas  32% Solar 21% Coal 16% Wind 11% Other 2% Energy Storage  6% Hydro 12% Installed capacity by fuel type Thermal Innovation is embedded in our culture. We pioneered the first  documented carbon offset program in the US in 1989 and later  introduced""
""utility-scale energy storage in 2009. This passion for  innovation has earned us seven Edison Electric Institute Edison  Awards. AES offers a broad portfolio of energy solutions, spanning renewable  and thermal generation, energy storage, LNG infrastructure, and  cutting-edge technologies. We embrace an all-of-the-above approach  to meet the unique needs of each market we serve, ensuring grid  reliability and security, which are essential to economic stability and  resilience across the markets""
""where we operate.  Our broad and flexible portfolio positions AES as the leading provider  of clean energy to corporations worldwide, and the largest importer  of U.S. LNG in Central America and the Caribbean.  Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report  8 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION We are organized into four technology-oriented Strategic Business""
""Units (SBUs) Renewables Solar, wind, energy storage, and hydro generation  facilities1. Utilities Regulated utilities businesses in AES Indiana, AES Ohio, AES El Salvador and their generation facilities.  Energy Infrastructure  Natural gas, coal, pet coke, diesel, and oil  generation facilities, as well as LNG infrastructure1.  New Energy Technologies Investments in new and innovative technologies to  support leading-edge energy solutions.  The AES Corporation (NYSE:AES)  is a publicly traded""
""energy company  incorporated under the laws of  Delaware and is governed by a Board  of Directors. For additional details,  please refer to our 2024 Annual  Report.  1 Energy Infrastructure SBU included renewable assets in Chile up until the end of 2024. Starting in 2025 renewable assets in Chile are included in the Renewable SBU. Energy Infrastructure  Renewables Utilities New Energy  Technologies US Mexico El Salvador Panama Chile1 Argentina Dominican Republic The Netherlands Jordan Bulgaria""
""Vietnam Colombia Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report  9 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Our Business Strategy Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report  10 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION At AES, our""
""strategy is driven by our purpose of accelerating the  future of energy, together. It is anchored in our values that align  innovation with responsibility, and ambition with accountability.  Through our People-Planet-Accountability impact framework, we  deliver solutions that not only power homes and fuel economic  growth but also benefit the environment and society across all our  business units. We lead in energy innovation, delivering smarter, more resilient  solutions for a rapidly changing""
""world. Through close collaboration  with our partners and customers, we address evolving energy needs  across industries and geographies. As electricity consumption growth  accelerates, driven by AI, electrification, and reindustrialization, AES  is uniquely positioned to meet the new demand with our outcome- focused approach and diversified portfolio. Customers choose AES for our proven track record in delivering  scalable, results-driven energy solutions. We offer customized,  technology-""
""agnostic solutions tailored to meet their unique needs  and goals. By providing reliable power, enhancing  grid stability, supporting energy security,  and enabling economic growth we  create value for our people, partners,  customers, shareholders, and the  communities that we serve. Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy Our Impact Framework Energy Infrastructure Renewables Utilities New Energy Technologies People Planet Accountability About this Report""
""11 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Our Impact Framework  Our People-Planet-Accountability framework supports our strategy, ensuring that our decisions and actions  align with our business objectives and commitments, and create shared value across our stakeholder groups. The  energy transition requires smart, scalable, solutions to meet demand while improving lives, protecting the planet and  promoting economic development with the""
""highest standards.  Our objectives Our framework Our values Becoming the  partner of choice Achieving   net-zero emissions Creating value for  all our stakeholders People Improving lives         Æ Empowering our people         Æ Partnering with communities   Æ Enabling a responsible transition Planet Protecting the environment   Æ Combating climate change      Æ Environmental stewardship:  Biodiversity, Air, Waste, Water   Æ Innovating for sustainability Accountability Delivering with integrity""
""responses to protect critical energy infrastructure. Planet - Protecting the environment  We prioritize environmental stewardship, from reducing emissions  and supporting a circular economy to safeguarding the air, water,  and biodiversity around us. By integrating dual land use, targeted  conservation efforts, and advanced energy technologies, we help  mitigate the impacts of climate change while strengthening the  energy grids that support economic growth.   People - Improving lives We empower""
""our workforce through our safety programs, training  and development opportunities, as well as employee engagement  resources. Our dedication extends to our suppliers, contractors  and the communities we serve. Through strong community  partnerships, we support economic development, expand job  opportunities, and improve quality of life.     Accelerating the future of energy, together Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy Our Impact Framework Energy""
""Infrastructure Renewables Utilities New Energy Technologies People Planet Accountability About this Report  12 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Efficient thermal generation in our Energy Infrastructure SBU, plays  a critical role in supporting energy security by providing flexible,  around-the-clock power. These technologies and infrastructure also  complement intermittent renewable energy sources by ensuring  reliability during periods""
""of variability in supply and demand. AES has played a pioneering role in creating and expanding the  liquefied natural gas (LNG) market in the Dominican Republic and  Panama, transforming local economies and bringing benefits beyond  electricity generation. As the Central America and the Caribbean  leading importer of U.S. LNG, AES channels over $1 billion annually  of natural gas into the Dominican Republic and Panama through our  world-class terminals. When LNG was first introduced in the""
""Dominican Republic in 2003,  it became one of only 15 countries globally, and the only one in  an emerging market, with an LNG terminal. Since then, the fuel  has transformed the country’s energy landscape, accounting for  approximately 40 percent of total generation, serving as a cost- effective solution that has displaced diesel and oil-fired generation.  This shift has enabled more affordable and stable electricity prices,  offering long-term cost predictability that supports national""
""planning  and investment. Combined, our LNG facilities in Panama and the Dominican Republic  have delivered $500 million in annual fuel-cost savings across both  markets, helping achieve sustained economic growth. Powering energy resilience in Panamá In 2024, together with our partners we completed the construction of Gatún, a 670 MW combined cycle gas plant in Panama. During  the construction phase the project created more than 3,000 jobs – directly and indirectly – promoting economic""
""development in the  area. We also maintained a strong commitment to safety throughout the project, completing more than 9.5 million work hours without a  single lost time injury, reflecting the shared safety culture across our people and contractors. Gatún leverages our existing LNG terminal in the country at AES Colón. Together, our natural gas assets in Panamá, reduce electricity  price volatility and increase grid reliability and stability by reducing dependance on rainfall for hydro""
""generation.   Flexibility enabling growth Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy Our Impact Framework Energy Infrastructure Renewables Utilities New Energy Technologies People Planet Accountability About this Report  13 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Mississippi's first utility-scale wind project  Powering Amazon’s regional operations, AES’ Delta - 185  MW onshore wind plant- is located in Tunica""
""County,  Mississippi, and is the state’s first utility-scale wind farm.  The project created nearly 300 jobs during construction,  increasing local tax revenue. Located on 14,000 acres,  the project is designed to allow continued agricultural  use, harmonizing renewable energy production with  traditional farming activities.   Learn more   Renewable energy generated from solar, wind, and hydro is key to  meeting today’s surging electricity demand, offering a fast, cost- effective path to""
""support economic development, including the rapid  demand growth from AI, electrification and reindustrialization.  Renewable projects can come online much faster than traditional  thermal projects, allowing us to meet the significant growth in  customer demand in a timely manner. In addition, our carbon-free  energy solutions provide price certainty (no variable fuel cost),  affordability and are tailored to meet customers’ needs while helping  businesses and communities achieve their goals.""
""We have had great success partnering with data centers and large  corporations transitioning to carbon-free sources of electricity,  and are the leading provider of clean energy to corporations in the  world2. Our well-established relationships with leading technology  customers with over 9.5 GW of signed agreements since 2018, and  our track record of project delivery, successfully positions AES for  the expected growth in electricity demand.  In 2024, we completed the construction or""
""acquisition of 3 GW  of renewables and signed long-term contracts for 4.4 GW of  renewables, bringing our backlog of projects to 11.9 GW as of          year end. Fastest time to power 2 According to BNEF, AES was the largest seller of clean energy to corporations through PPAs in 2021, 2022 and 2024.  Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy Our Impact Framework Energy Infrastructure Renewables Utilities New Energy Technologies People Planet Accountability""
""About this Report  14 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Powering communities and industries As more renewables come online and the sector transforms, resilient  grid infrastructure and digital solutions are essential to enabling  the energy transition. In 2024, our utilities served 2.7 million people,  while supporting critical infrastructure and maintaining impactful  partnerships across the communities and industries we power.   We""
""continue to invest across our utilities in Indiana, Ohio, and  El Salvador to modernize and expand energy infrastructure— strengthening grid reliability, improving service quality and operational  efficiency, and enabling broader access to safe, affordable, and  reliable electricity. These efforts also enhance resiliency, leading to  tangible benefits such as faster power restoration after severe storm  events and contributing to local economic growth.   As part of our commitment to accelerating""
""the transition to a smarter,  more sustainable energy system, we are collaborating with Google’s  moonshot factory on Tapestry, a groundbreaking initiative harnessing  advanced AI to virtualize and modernize grid operations. Tapestry provides grid operators with a unified, virtual view of the  grid, enabling faster complex scenario modeling. With highly accurate  models, Tapestry helps manage all the generation and transmission  assets of the grid and predict how they will behave from""
""milliseconds  to years into the future, strengthening long-term infrastructure  planning. By increasing efficiency, reliability, and renewable  integration, Tapestry is helping build a more resilient, affordable, and  future-ready energy system. Pike County: Investing in local growth and innovation AES Indiana is investing $1.1 billion in the new Petersburg Energy  Center, a comprehensive initiative that brings together a range of  technologies to ensure customers reliable and affordable""
""electricity.  This includes the repowering of the Petersburg Generating Station  from coal to a high-efficiency natural gas power plant as well as  the addition of 250 MW of solar generation and 180 MWh battery      energy storage.   Building on more than 50 years of partnership with Pike County,  AES Indiana is committed  to creating jobs and strengthening local  communities. These projects are part of Indiana’s Integrated Resource  Plan (IRP) and are transforming the state’s energy landscape""
""while  driving economic growth.    Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy Our Impact Framework Energy Infrastructure Renewables Utilities New Energy Technologies People Planet Accountability About this Report  15 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Automating Solar Installations  Maximo is a first-of-its-kind AES-developed solar robot  designed to enhance the speed, efficiency and safety of  solar""
""installations. This robot works alongside AES’ skilled  workforce and construction teams by using AI to automate  the lifting, placement, and fastening of solar modules with  high-speed robotic arms and precision module placement,  delivering full end-to-end automation of the mechanical  installation of solar modules. Maximo enhances safety,  supportting to the workforce by performing the heavy lifting in  the installation of solar panels.  Maximo is being used for autonomous solar module""
""installation  at the Bellefield project, a 1 GW solar + storage facility in Kern  County, California, under contract with Amazon. In the hot  desert environment of the project, Maximo is a partner to the  workforce and equipped to perform heavy lifting, keeping the  project on track despite the extreme temperatures. The energy landscape is rapidly evolving, and we are creating solutions to address the bottlenecks in the energy transition – like the time required for building new transmission""
""infrastructure and the complexities  of managing renewable intermittency. To meet these challenges, we develop in-house solutions, form new partnerships, and invest in innovative companies. Our methodology focuses on incubating and investing in  cutting-edge solutions to address the sector’s most pressing challenges. By combining our industry expertise with insights into applications for new technologies, ideas are scaled quickly, bringing transformation  across the energy sector.  Learn more  ""
""Scaling innovative solutions Pioneering Energy Storage Solutions AES has played a leading role in creating the global battery  energy storage market, which according to BNEF, is 69 GW  and is projected to grow to reach over 500 GW by 2030. In 2009, we introduced the world’s first utility-scale battery  energy storage system on the electric grid in Chile, and in the  following years pioneered deployments in other markets and  countries, paving the way for a cleaner, more resilient energy  future.""
""Through a joint venture with Siemens this business  evolved to be Fluence and it is now a leading global provider  of energy storage products and services. Today, we continue to push the boundaries of what’s possible  with battery energy storage systems, pairing them with  solar to deliver flexible, low-carbon solutions and applying  them to maximize generation output. Battery energy  storage systems are now a major component of our growth  strategy. Standalone battery and solar plus-storage""
""projects  represented 65 percent of the 2.7 GW of renewables capacity  that completed construction in 2024.  Integrating Artificial Intelligence We are harnessing the power of AI to accelerate innovation,  improve operational efficiency, and enhance safety across our  business. Applications include generative AI for safety audits,  predictive analytics for energy generation, and AI-driven  market insights. Our Farseer AI program, developed in partnership with  Google, integrates advanced machine""
""learning for more  accurate renewable generation forecasting and for  automating energy market biddings strategies. This initiative  supports more reliable and sustainable energy delivery and  earned the 2024 CIO Award for IT Leadership and Innovation.  In 2024 we announced a strategic partnership with AI Fund to  collaborate on co-building companies that leverage AI to  tackle energy industry bottleneck and challenges. Learn more   Learn more   Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary""
""About AES Our Business Strategy Our Impact Framework Energy Infrastructure Renewables Utilities New Energy Technologies People Planet Accountability About this Report  16 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION        People Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report  17 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION""
""As an Equal Opportunity Employer, we consider applicants for  employment based on merit, skills, and qualifications. We partner with  Troops to Energy to support veterans, transitioning service members, and  military spouses to explore open positions and start a career in the energy  sector. We view learning as well as feedback as a continuous process. All  AES people have tools to give, receive, and request feedback at any time  and from anyone in the organization to continue to grow and""
""Rights Planet Accountability About this Report  19 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Assessment and  career planning  We include 360° assessments  that help our people to identify  their strengths and areas of  opportunity, allowing a broader  perspective on how their work  is perceived and impacts others,  identifying gaps for continuous  improvement. We have a yearly  performance management cycle  that ensures all employees  create and""
""Performance  Excellence)  For 18 years, our people have  been trained in efficiency,  problem solving, and performance  improvement through  methodologies such as Lean  and Six Sigma. More than 4,580  projects have been implemented  under our APEX program. During  2024, projects using APEX  methodologies translated into  over $6 million in benefits to       the organization.   Multi-disciplinary  transformation  teams  Our Energy Star program  provides AES people with an  opportunity to expand""
""their  skills, enhance their capabilities,  and be a part of a cross  functional team that oversees  a project that is considered  transformational for the entire  company. In 2024, 9 workstreams  involving ~779 employees  enabled transformation across  renewables, operations,  commercial, and other key  business areas. The smart  operations workstream, for  example, included technical  expertise sharing, implementation  of AI and machine learning  systems, and operational reliability""
""conversations about  goal-setting and a framework  to better innovate on the job.  During 2024, 24 leaders from  our renewable businesses in the  US participated in the program.  In addition, more than 400 AES  people enrolled in leadership  related courses and journeys,  collectively completing over 3,500  hours of video content. 2024 performance  In 2024, average training per person was over 110 hours with an average amount spent per full-time employee (FTE) close to $900. See the 2024 Excel""
""4,500 applications received in 2023,  in 2024 24 recent college graduates across 6 countries were  hired into our two-year rotational program, gaining practical  experience and exposure to unique insights and professional  connections while working on cross-functional teams  throughout our company to prepare for future leadership  roles. Since its inception in 2018, our Energy4Talent (E4T)  program has developed more than 150 college graduates.  The AES Energy Innovation Challenge is an effort""
""to develop  relationships with universities and create meaningful opportunities  for aspiring energy professionals to engage with AES leaders  and people. It challenges teams of graduate students to solve the  most pressing issues facing the energy industry. The program  began in the US and has since expanded internationally. The  program is led by former and current Energy4Talent Trainees to  maintain its unique bottom-up approach. The Energy Innovation  Challenge team has collaborated with the""
""REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION to a multi-year learning journey designed to strengthen skills and  support career development. Training opportunities include renewable  energy technologies—such battery storage, solar, and wind—  alongside data analytics tools and courses in entrepreneurship. The  entrepreneurship course equips participants with key knowledge  on market analysis and business concepts, providing participants  with tools to launch their own business ventures if""
""they choose  to leave AES. By fostering a skilled and adaptable workforce, the  program allows participants to be prepared for the demands of the  energy transition and emerging industry needs and expand their job  opportunities within the sector. Similarly, in Hawai'i, Maryland, and Puerto Rico, we developed  reskilling programs aimed at requalifying workforce competencies  through a hybrid training model that combines virtual learning and  hands-on experience in renewable energy technologies.""
""As part of an exciting re-skilling process, the company  offered me the opportunity to take renewable energy  courses with a technical institution and a university for  a year and a half. After the training, there were some  internal job openings, and I felt motivated to apply for  a new position at a wind farm. Today, after 10 years  with the company, I am proud to have gone from the  control room of a coal-fired power plant to overseeing  a wind farm on the ground. This process has been an""
""incredible adventure of growth and transformation! Gessuri García Wind Operations and Maintenance Senior  Engineer. Chile As our portfolio has transformed, as part of our just transition approach,  we work closely with our people, communities, local governments,  unions, and other stakeholders to ensure coal plant retirements,  conversions, and new builds are accompanied by a responsible path  forward (further detailed in the Community Relations section).   For our people working at impacted""
""Report  24 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION 20 years of teaching safe energy use Across our global operations, we foster a culture of safety,  education, and environmental responsibility through  community outreach. Dynamic and accessible lectures, videos  and interactions, help people of all ages understand how to  interact safely and responsibly with electricity. From high- voltage demonstrations in that vividly illustrate the dangers""
""of  electricity, to hands-on learning in Panamá and El Salvador,  we teach safe and efficient energy use across all age groups. AES has been running programs like these for 20 years and  educated over 38,000 people in 2024. Well-being We are committed to providing a safe and healthy working  environment. Working across diverse jurisdictions, our comprehensive  benefits are designed to support the well-being of our people and  promote their long-term success. Each of our businesses tailor""
""may occur when members of the community interact with our medium  and low voltage systems during activities like residential construction,  vegetation pruning, touching downed electrical lines, flying kites, and  playing near our networks and sites.  We take these incidents seriously and implement the necessary  mitigation controls and measures to prevent them in the future. Our  utilities have public awareness campaigns to communicate and  mitigate the risks associated with activities near our""
""Partnering with Communities Suppliers Human Rights Planet Accountability About this Report  25 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION 2024 performance  3 We are excluding renewable assets in United States, the majority of which (~84 percent) are smaller than 20 MW. Only assets that are operational as of year end 2024 were included. We work in an inherently high-risk industry, where our employees  and contractors face different risks, whether""
""and Well-Being Stakeholder Engagement Partnering with Communities Suppliers Human Rights Planet Accountability About this Report  26 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Stakeholder Engagement Members of the Board Chair, Energy   Working Group Members of the Board Members of the Board4 Chair of the Board Executive Committee  and Members of   the Board Members of the Board Members of the Board Members of the Board 4 We left the organization""
""Understanding risks and opportunities         Æ Evaluating progress of engagement actions     Æ Implementing grievance mechanisms and communication channels In each of our operating markets, a Stakeholder Relations Manager leads engagement plans. At  the corporate level, our Chief Corporate Affairs and Impact Officer, oversees the implementation  of the Stakeholder Engagement Playbook, our external engagement and sustainability. Review  our Excel File (About AES - Stakeholder) for details on how""
""organizations,  along with private companies, as well as civil society leaders  and experts. Our CEO and COO participated in high level  dialogue, sharing AES perspective on innovation, energy  security ad resilience systems. Their engagement contributed to  global conversations on energy priorities while also deepening  our understanding of evolving stakeholders' expectations. Learn more   CERAWeek At CERAWeek in Houston, the leading global energy  conference, AES engaged directly with""
""customers and  partners. Our leaders participated in discussions around  innovation and shaping the future of energy. We showcased  how we deliver tailored energy solutions to meet customer  evolving needs, strengthened relationships and gained  valuable feedback. Learn more   Americas Business Dialogue  At the Energy and Climate Partnership of the Americas  ministerial meeting, as Chair of the Energy Working Group of  the Americas Business Dialogue (business-led partnership  that fosters""
""public-private dialogues), we delivered insights  on behalf of the private sector around the importance of a  diversified energy mix, the incorporation of technologies and  the modernization of regulatory frameworks to advance in the  development of the sector in the region. Learn more   Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Empowering our People Safety and Well-Being Stakeholder Engagement Partnering with Communities Suppliers Human Rights Planet""
""Business Strategy People Empowering our People Safety and Well-Being Stakeholder Engagement Partnering with Communities Suppliers Human Rights Planet Accountability About this Report  29 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Social impact In collaboration with community partners, including government  agencies, nonprofits, unions, and local organizations, we                    co-develop social impact programs that align with our strategy and""
""through the Global AES Volunteer Program.  Community resilience   and relief efforts  We work as one team with our people,  contractors, customers, and communities to  respond to natural disasters or catastrophes  in the communities. This includes making  resources available, volunteering, and  supporting front-line workers and organizations  before, during, and after an event.   Partnering for the  environment  We work with our partners to develop  programs focused on conservation,""
""restoration, and the creation of green  spaces, that enhance local environments  and provide lasting value for the  communities we serve.  Access to energy and  basic services    We partner for access to safe, efficient,  and affordable energy and basic services,  providing basic resources (such as tools  for public health) to the communities where     we work. Economic growth   We work with our partners to contribute to  the economic and social development in the  communities where we work. Our""
""basis for initiatives that, among others, support  major disaster relief and long-term recovery efforts.  Our social initiatives and investments are centered around four key  pillars that reflect our purpose and values, and are guided by the  United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals:  Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Empowering our People Safety and Well-Being Stakeholder Engagement Partnering with Communities Suppliers Human Rights""
""Planet Accountability About this Report  30 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION 2024 performance  Access to energy and basic services   Over 50 initiatives  Access to energy is access to opportunity. For many  communities, something as simple as turning on a light can  mark the beginning of safer nights, healthier families, and  brighter futures. In collaboration with public, private, and  NGO partners, we have invested in essential""
""infrastructure  projects that strengthen ongoing community development.  Our rural electrification programs have improved quality of life  for thousands of families by extending access to education,  healthcare, and public safety. Since 2009, our Rural Energy  program in El Salvador has expanded electricity access to over  84,000 rural communities. In Panama, the program brought  electricity to multiple families benefiting 440 people in the     Colón Province.   During the year, our partnerships""
""also resulted in outcomes such  as the installation of a water supply system with solar pumping  and a reservoir holding 100,000 gallons of water for the Calabaza  community in the Dominican Republic. Additionally, a drinking  water distribution system was established for an indigenous  community in La Guajira, Colombia. Economic growth  over 240 initiatives  Every student is a potential innovator and future energy leader,  and in a rapidly evolving sector, early investment in their  development""
""Being Stakeholder Engagement Partnering with Communities Suppliers Human Rights Planet Accountability About this Report  31 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Environmental stewardship Over 40 initiatives  Local partnerships for the environment lead to stronger, more  vibrant communities. Our Coastal Enhancement Program in  Southern California promotes environmental restoration and  empowers communities to take part in their protection.""
""Through  this initiative, AES is cultivating a culture of conservation among  youth and families around our operations in Southern California,  creating meaningful access to coastal wetlands and providing  hands-on environmental education in underserved communities.   In partnership with local organizations, we are fostering the  next generation of environmental leaders by offering workforce  development opportunities. In 2024, we expanded the scope of  our program to include an additional""
""wetland area, workforce  development for early career environmental conservation  professionals and engagement with indigenous groups. Since  2022, we have reached over 26,000 community members and  strengthened public-private conservation efforts of over 230  acres of coastal habitats alongside our program partners.  Community resilience and relief efforts  Over 150 initiatives  Moments of crisis can test a community, but it also brings out  its resilience. We work with communities to prepare,""
""respond  and recover from emergencies with dignity and strength. Since  2022, our partnership with GRID Alternatives has focused on  equipping underserved communities across the US with the  tools they need to withstand and recover from natural disasters  and power outages. In 2024, AES and our volunteers supported  the installation of a 30kWh battery energy storage system at  an affordable housing within a government-subsidized housing  community in Los Angeles. This hub now supports over 1,500""
""others to join us in creating a  safer, higher-standard, and more united world.”  Modesta Vasquez Volunteer from US Renewables During the year, our people volunteered more than 12,400 hours in 600 opportunities globally as  part of the Program.  #Volunteering across AES Read more  #Lending a hand for Shoes 4 the  Shoeless Read more  #STEM activities and native species Read more  #Day in the Parks Read more  #Celebrating Environment Day  Read more  #Restoration of local ecosystems Read more""
""conduct business. It strengthens our capacity to create and deliver  goods and solutions globally while supporting our efforts to transform the way energy solutions  are created. In a similar vein, by working with a supplier base that is broad and varied, we seek to  encourage economic inclusion and job creation for underserved populations.  We take non-compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct seriously. In addition to any other  remedies available to AES, violations may result in immediate""
""of the  American Clean Power Association, we have pledged to prevent  forced labor.  AES Colombia, AES México and AES Panamá are signatories  and have adopted the ten principles of the United Nations Global  Compact, which include key commitments to human rights, labor  standards, environmental protection, and anti-corruption efforts;  with a commitment to respecting and advancing human rights as an  aspect of our operations. Our businesses are also members of different organizations that""
""People Empowering our People Safety and Well-Being Stakeholder Engagement Partnering with Communities Suppliers Human Rights Planet Accountability About this Report  35 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Planet Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report  36 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION""
""Environmental Management  System  Our Environmental Policy sets the principles and foundation of  our Environmental Management System (EMS). Our approach  to environmental stewardship is grounded in strong corporate  governance, led by the Governance Committee of our Board of  Directors. This committee monitors the environmental compliance  of AES businesses and is responsible for the periodic review  and oversight of the practices related to climate change.  We are  committed to responsible""
""environmental practices and adhere to the  laws and regulations of each country where we operate and, when  appropriate, international standards. The EMS – applicable to all our businesses – is based on the  principles of the ISO 14001 Standard, which specifies the  requirements for an environmental management system that an  organization can use to enhance its environmental performance.  The EMS standards cover topics such as general environmental  requirements and prohibitions, PCB""
""(polychlorinated biphenyl)  management, hazardous waste and chemicals management,  biodiversity protection, spill prevention and control, and contractor  environmental management. The standards were updated and  approved by the Vice President of EHS&S in 2023, and are part of the  Environmental Policy signed by the company’s CEO.  The Global Environmental Standard further establishes, among other  things, how each business is expected to define roles, responsibilities,  and authority to""
""effectively implement and maintain the EMS:           Æ Spill Prevention and Containment      Æ Waste         Æ Chemical and Raw Material Management          Æ PCB Management 5  Excludes renewable assets in United States, the majority of which (84% percent) are smaller than 20 MW.  6  Significance is determined by a threshold and this only refers to fines that were equal to or more than $10,000.  More details here and here.   Æ AES Compliance Data Quality Assurance and Reporting   Æ""
""Environmental Incident Management     Æ Hydroelectric Power Plant and Reservoir Requirements          Æ Environmentally Related Financial Disclosure          Æ Contractor Environmental Risk Management Standard     Æ Managing Potential Contractor Environmental Impacts   Æ General Environmental Requirements    Æ Biodiversity Assessment and Protection        Æ Internal EHS Audit Standard   Æ External EHS Audit Standard Environmental impacts must be identified and assessed in  accordance with the""
""EMS Risk Assessment methodology. An action  plan should be created to address significant environmental aspects,  associated risks and opportunities, and compliance obligations. This  assessment must be updated biennially or when major changes occur.  The Renewable Energy Construction Projects Environmental, Health,  Safety, and Security Plans outline expectations for the construction  phase, including the required measures for contractors.  Compliance with these standards is monitored through""
""both internal  and external audits. Construction sites undergo annual audits, while  operating businesses are audited every three years. For each audit  finding, a corrective action plan is formulated, and the overall audit  performance is regularly reported to executive leadership.  Throughout the year, we identify and monitor compliance  conditions and events that could result in non-conformances and  financial impacts on the business. Our AES Environmental Incident  Management Standard""
""requires each business to establish a process  for identification, investigation and reporting of environmental  nonconformance events.  As of December 31, 2024, approximately 63 percent of AES people  and contractors5 worked at locations that have voluntarily certified their  EMS to the ISO 14001 Standard (51 percent of AES locations). These  businesses require follow up audits to be conducted by international  Certification Agencies, such as Bureau Veritas, Aenor or SGS, among  others.  In""
""2024, none of the businesses we operate paid significant fines  or penalties related to environmental matters from 2023 or 2024,  including those involving water or ecological issues. However certain  matters related to 2022 issues were settled in 2024.6 Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Environmental Management System Our Ambitions Emissions Biodiversity Water Waste Accountability About this Report  37 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024""
""SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Our Ambitions Based on the same assumptions, we also expect to reduce the following sources of air emissions and  non-hazardous waste (versus a 2016 baseline) by 2030:7 Sulphur dioxide (SO2) ~63 percent reduction (expected intensity reduction   of ~83 percent) Particulate matter (PM) ~56 percent reduction (expected intensity reduction   of ~80 percent) Nitrogen oxides (NOx) ~48 percent reduction (expected intensity reduction   of ~77""
""percent) Mercury (Hg) ~25 percent  (expected intensity reduction   of ~66 percent) Non-hazardous waste  (CCRs)9:   ~48 percent by 2030 (expected intensity reduction of ~77  percent) 2030 Generation portfolio  carbon intensity in line  with a well-below 2ºC  scenario 2040 Net-zero carbon  emissions from  electricity sales 2050 Net zero carbon  emissions for entire  business portfolio7-8 7  Based on renewables growth and the feasibility of multiple possible asset scenarios. 8  Actions assume new""
""policies that facilitate transition to low emissions energy systems, such as a price on carbon. Includes scope 1 and 2 emissions for 2040 and Scope 3 for 2050. 9  The largest component of our non-hazardous waste is coal combustion residuals (CCRs)  AES supports the objectives of the Paris Agreement to limit the average rise in global  temperatures to well below 2°C above preindustrial levels and to pursue efforts to limit it to 1.5°C.   We were the first publicly traded US utility and power""
""company to publish a Climate Scenario  Report aligned with TCFD recommendations in 2018, followed by an expanded analysis in 2021.   An updated report is expected to be released in 2025.  In 2021 we set ambitions based on our plan to transition out of coal, the expected renewable  growth of our portfolio, and the feasibility of multiple possible asset scenarios, which we expect to  review during 2025. As we execute on our intention to exit our coal businesses, we are committed  to ensuring grid""
""stability and achieving a responsible energy transition. Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Environmental Management System Our Ambitions Emissions Biodiversity Water Waste Accountability About this Report  38 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Emissions 2024 vs 2023  ~17 percent less Scope 1 emissions ~14 percent less NOx ~25 percent more solar and wind generation ~29 percent less""
""Sox ~8 percent reduced carbon intensity ~20 percent less PM We were successful in 2024 in advancing our portfolio and emissions targets. We completed the construction or acquisition of  3 GW of new renewable energy and exited or announced the sale or closure of 1 GW of coal generation in the US and Chile. We  also continued to lower our Scope 1 emissions and improved our carbon intensity. As a result, in 2024 our coal-fired generation  decreased to represent less than 30 percent of the total""
""electricity produced, while wind and solar generation increased by more  than 25 percent.  2 coal power plants retired allowed the reduction of10:  ~2 .1 million metric tons   of CO2 1,900 metric tons of   nitrous oxides (NOx) ~2 ,000 metric tons of  sulfur dioxide (SO2) Equivalent to GHG emissions from +620,000 gasoline-powered passenger vehicles driven  for one year11  10 Equity-adjusted values calculated considering the average emissions of the last 3 years (2021-2023). 11 Estimated using the""
""EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator.  2024 performance  Combustion of fuels to generate electricity results in the release  of both conventional and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Many  factors influence emissions, including generation diversity and  efficiency, demand for electricity, weather, fuel availability and prices,  and emission controls deployed. Air control system technologies and management at our plants  are primarily dictated by locally applicable environmental laws  and""
""regulations. When considering mitigation technologies, our  power plants can have pulse air fabric filter systems, electrostatic  precipitators, flue gas desulfurization systems, selective catalytic  and non-catalytic reduction systems, SO2 scrubbers, and low NOx  burners. Air emissions are tracked using continuous emission  monitoring systems (CEMS) and/ or operational parameters (e.g.,  fuel use and appropriate emission factors). In addition to power  generation, the use of light and heavy-""
""duty vehicle fleets, as well as  other equipment, represents another source of direct emissions which  our businesses monitor.  Our air emissions include Direct GHG Emissions; direct SO2, NOx, PM  and Hg, and indirect GHG Emissions including Scope 2 and Scope 3  (categories 1, 3, 6, 7, 11).  Our businesses are continuously looking for ways to improve power  generation efficiency and reduce emissions. In 2024, AES operating  businesses implemented emission reduction initiatives, including  energy""
""efficiency programs and fleet transitions to electric vehicles.  Combined with the retirement of coal plants, these efforts resulted in  an estimated reduction of over 2 million metric tonnes (MT) of annual  carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. Also, energy management programs  are in place in many of our assets, including energy audits, actions  to reduce the amount of energy use, investments in innovation or  R&D and energy efficiency training provided to employees to raise  awareness. Our Scope 1""
""and other air emissions continue to decrease, as we  are taking actions to transform our own portfolio to reduce carbon  emissions, such as retiring two coal power plants in 2024, while  working to develop new solutions that are designed to enable our  customers to reduce their reliance on fossil fuels. Our measurement  methodologies and scope as well as our detailed performance for our  air emissions are detailed in our 2024 Excel file (Planet – Emissions).  Table of Contents CEO Letter""
""Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Environmental Management System Our Ambitions Emissions Biodiversity Water Waste Accountability About this Report  39 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Biodiversity Our Biodiversity Assessment and Protection Standard is part of our EMS. Updated in 2023,  it establishes a minimum standard for assessing potential positive and negative impacts to  biodiversity, and promotes the""
""incorporation of best management practices throughout planning,  construction, and operation/maintenance. AES businesses must identify and comply with all applicable legal and compliance obligations  relating to Biodiversity. This includes, but is not limited to, identification of protected species, their  habitats, and local regulatory requirements pertaining to them.   All projects follow the mitigation hierarchy approach, which includes steps to avoid, minimize,  mitigate, and offset impacts.""
""Management plans are developed in accordance with the mitigation  hierarchy criteria as needed.  When possible, the environmental impact assessment (which includes biodiversity considerations)  is made publicly available on third-party websites, typically those of regulatory agencies. Links to  Environmental Impact Assessments of projects currently under construction are available in the Excel  file (Planet – Site management). Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business""
""Strategy People Planet Environmental Management System Our Ambitions Emissions Biodiversity Water Waste Accountability About this Report  40 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION We have more than 95 operational sites12, covering more than 76,500 hectares. In addition to any impact assessments that may have been carried out during the development and construction  of a site, we have conducted biodiversity impact assessments in more than 60""
""sites (representing over 98 percent of our total area). Of such sites, more than 25 are in close proximity to critical  biodiversity and more than 15 have biodiversity management plans in place.  With the execution of the management plans, some sites aim to have no net deforestation. Through 2024 we have reforested more than 300 hectares out of a total of 500 hectares to be reforested  by 2028 which is when the last reforestation commitment is anticipated to be fulfilled. Compared to 2023, these""
""figures are significantly lower due to the sale of our Brazil business, which held the  largest share of our reforestation commitments. Dual Use Innovation We are partnering with universities and research centers  across the US to fully realize the synergies of solar and  agricultural activities (agrivoltaics or AgPV). By integrating  crop cultivation or livestock grazing beneath and around  solar panel arrays, agrivoltaics projects promote more  efficient land use while maintaining energy""
""operations. These initiatives create added value for local economies  by supporting sustainable agriculture, generating new  income streams for farmers and landowners, and  fostering rural economic development. Currently, we have more than 12,000 acres under active  sheep grazing at more than 55 projects across the US,  Colombia and Puerto Rico, demonstrating how renewable  energy infrastructure can coexist with and enhance  agricultural productivity. Urban Arboriculture Urban arboriculture""
""contributes to city planning by  focusing on the selection and planting of tree species  that complement the built environment and support  sustainable development. Since 2016, as part of AES El Salvador’s initiatives  for management of trees in cities, we offer urban  arboriculture seminars with the objective of providing  knowledge that contributes to turning cities into spaces  with more harmony between vegetation and electrical  infrastructure. To date, more than 630 people from 149""
""environmental institutions, municipalities, construction  companies, and other entities have been trained. Protecting Native Species  Coastal ecosystems, such as mangroves, are important in  supporting biodiversity. Empowering local environmental  stewards is one of the ways we help strengthen coastal  restoration efforts near our operations. In Panama, with  the Mangrove Defenders program, we educate youth  about conservation and the importance of nature-based  solutions. The program is""
""developed in partnership with  Wetlands International and has allowed the reforestation  of more than 5.5 hectares of mangroves in the Province of  Colón. AES volunteers and community members continue  to support ongoing efforts to expand mangrove forests in  partnership with Fundación Verde Profundo. This initiative  is helping to strengthen local biodiversity in Boca Chica, a  5.2 hectare marine area south of Santo Domingo. 2024 performance  12  We are excluding renewable assets in United""
""States, the majority of which (84% percent) are smaller than 20 MW. Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Environmental Management System Our Ambitions Emissions Biodiversity Water Waste Accountability About this Report  41 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION In 2024, we advanced our water stewardship efforts and made progress in improving our  performance. Both our water withdrawal and""
""discharges decreased by more than 35 percent  compared to 2023, due to assets shutdowns and less generation from large plants. Our total water  consumption continues to decrease.   In Colombia, through the Efficient Use and Saving Program, the domestic water consumption in our  hydro facilities has been reduced by 42 percent compared to 2010.  See the Excel file (Planet – Water) file for detailed data around water use, recycle and exposure to  areas with water stress.  2024 performance  Water At""
""AES, we recognize that water stewardship is essential for our operations and the livelihoods of the  communities we serve. For our generation businesses, whether thermal or hydro, water availability  is important not only to operate, but also to operate efficiently. At our thermal plants, water is  predominantly used for the steam cooling process where >95 percent is returned to the body of water,  with the rest evaporating.  For our renewables businesses, like solar and wind, water is not used""
""as a source for generation and  minimal quantities are required. For our hydroelectric power plants, water only passes through the  water-driven power turbines, then it is immediately returned to the environment. During operation, we monitor the quality of water discharges, and we are regularly supervised by  environmental authorities. Controls may also include monitoring of upstream and downstream areas  from our water discharge, and groundwater around our ash ponds. Also, as part of the EMS,""
""AES  businesses consider water use for potential impacts and mitigation when conducting periodical  environmental risk assessments. Water efficiency management programs are in place in many of our assets, these programs may include  water use assessment to identify opportunities for water efficiency improvements, actions to reduce  water consumption or application of water recycling and awareness training provided to our people. We use the World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct Global Water""
""Tool to identify assets in water  stressed areas. As we develop new projects, water is a key part of our environmental risk and       impact assessments.  As we phase out our coal generation portfolio, we expect a material reduction in our water use. We  work to lower water consumption and withdrawals of freshwater in arid areas. This work involves  improving processes in cooling towers by monitoring water levels, installation of flow meters and routine  maintenance of air handler coils. In a""
""number of plants, we use air cooled heat exchangers instead of  water cooled to reduce water use. Where possible, we recycle or reuse water, as well as use third-party  recycled water, or implement water efficiency programs. As part of the risk management process related to water, AES has a Weather Risk Committee  that monitors and determines best practices around hydrology risk in our portfolio, working with  Commercial, Operational and Meteorological expert counterparts. The committee works to""
""identify  new opportunities to improve AES’ development efforts and reports advises the organization on the  forecasted risk associated with weather. The Risk Management team submits a report to the Board of  Directors at regularly scheduled meetings. See Risk Management for more information. Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Environmental Management System Our Ambitions Emissions Biodiversity Water Waste Accountability About this Report""
""42 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Waste As part of the EMS, we have a Waste Management Standard that sets forth our essential  guidelines for handling hazardous and special waste, managing chemicals and raw materials,  and preventing and controlling spills. We evaluate potential hazards and implement management  strategies, including preventive and control measures.  Our physical disposal of non-hazardous waste is protective of the""
""environment and in compliance  with local regulations and permits. When necessary, we collaborate with specialized, pre-approved  companies holding waste management licenses for the transportation and disposal of materials  and hire third parties to conduct assurance on their licenses and authorizations.  We have in place waste management programs. These programs include, depending on the asset,  action plans to reduce waste generation, waste reduction training or awareness provided to""
""employees or integration of recycling programs to reduce the waste sent to landfill.  Recycling and waste  reduction We prioritize recycling whenever possible. At our sites, we segregate plastic, aluminum, paper,  wood, and scrap metal where possible. Many facilities participate in recycling programs to benefit  local communities. We also seek to reduce solid waste such as avoiding the use of plastic by using  reusable plates and cutlery in dining rooms or providing reusable bags and coffee""
""cups.  Coal Combustion Residuals (CCRs) serve as a valuable component in various concrete products  and as a structural fill material, replacing soil or other substances. Gypsum, an air emissions control  process byproduct, when recycled, can be used in wallboards for the construction industry, as a  raw material in the production of cement, or for use as a soil stabilizer in agriculture. At some of our  assets we work with third parties to recycle CCRs, which make up nearly 99 percent of our""
""non- hazardous waste.  We have a US Renewables' Construction Waste Program for solar modules that, beyond recycling,  also allows us to assess construction breakage and end-of-life solar panel waste. Through an  agreement with SOLARCYCLE, we send damaged or retired solar panels to SOLARCYCLE’s  advanced recycling facility in Odessa, Texas, where they are responsibly recycled and repurposed.  By reducing waste and supporting domestic clean energy supply chains, we’re strengthening our  commitment""
""to the future of energy while creating American jobs.   13  Estimated using the EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator.  2024 performance  Since 2021, in the La Guajira region, AES Colombia has partnered with organizations to handle  the recycling and subsequent reintegration into production cycles of plastic bottles. To date, the  equivalent of more than 16,000 plastic bottles have been provided to the local partner.   As we continue to reduce the coal generation from our portfolio, we are""
""also reducing the amount  of CCRs produced, approximately 15 percent less compared with 2023. The recycling of our non- hazardous waste increased approximately 14 percent compared to 2023.   Through our partnership with SOLARCYCLE more than 12,500 panels were recycled to be brought  back into the domestic supply chain. By diverting these panels from the landfill we have avoided the  equivalent of over 400 metric tons of carbon dioxide-equivalent emissions, comparable to 1 million  miles driven""
""by an average gasoline-powered car13.  See the Excel file (Planet – Waste) file for detailed data around waste. Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Environmental Management System Our Ambitions Emissions Biodiversity Water Waste Accountability About this Report  43 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Accountability Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business""
""Directors (the Board).  In 2024, the Board maintained four standing Committees:  Compensation, Financial Audit, Innovation and Technology, and  Governance. The charter of the Governance Committee includes  oversight of matters related to environmental and safety programs  as well as compliance. The Audit, Governance, and Compensation  Committees  comprise solely independent Directors, each with a  different independent Director serving as Chairman of the Committee.  Our Corporate Governance""
""weighting tied to safety and 35 percent tied to achievement of growth in renewable energy generation and new  business models. Our Proxy Statement includes detailed information on our Compensation practices.   Board of Directors Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability Board of directors Ethics and Compliance Anti-Harassment and                        Anti-Discrimination Cybersecurity Risk Management About this Report  45""
""extreme weather or other natural  events. AES Ohio efficiently restored power after two severe  storms systems and five tornadoes that caused extensive  damage to electrical infrastructure to more than six counties      in Ohio. Learn more   Risk Management  Leaders are responsible for the management and assessment of risk  at the Company, including communication of the most material risks  to the Board and its Committees. The Board provides oversight over  the risk management practices""
""is comprised of the Company’s Chief Financial Officer (CFO),  Chief Operating Officer, CRO and the Presidents of the Renewables,  Energy Infrastructure and New Energy Technologies Strategic  Business Units. The risk management functions are part of the  finance organization reporting to the CFO, and are independent from  the operations and business lines.   See the 2024 Annual Report for a discussion of risk factors related to  AES’ operations, governmental regulation and laws, indebtedness and""
""involving nature, e.g., severe weather, floods,  earthquakes, tsunamis, etc. Our Safety Management System and the Global Safety Standard  on Emergency Preparedness describes minimum requirements for  emergency preparedness plans that address the risk associated with  operational activities, man-made emergencies, natural disasters and  anticipated industry hazards.  Stakeholder collaboration and engagement are also an important  part of our program. Our procedures include clear and frequent""
""communications and collaboration with customers, neighboring  communities, the media, contractors and government officials. To  create awareness with key stakeholders, businesses also can share  information with surrounding communities about safety and how  to act during an emergency, bad weather conditions, or spill overs,  among others. Disaster/Emergency  planning and response  Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability Board of""
""Lives Report, together with its downloadable Excel file, represents our 2024  Sustainability Report and covers our activities and businesses where AES has operational control  from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024, unless otherwise stated. The report is published on an  annual basis.   We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether  as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. If one or more forward-looking  statements are""
""updated, no inference should be drawn that additional updates will be made with  respect to those or other forward-looking statements.  The Excel file includes an index of how our 2024 reporting aligns to the Global Reporting Initiative  (GRI) and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB).   In certain specific indicators there have been updates in the information due to recalculations or  methodology adjustments. Those cases are indicated with a footnote in the Excel file.   AES has""
""used the services of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Inc. (LRQA) to verify and  conduct an independent and limited assurance of the following data: Greenhouse gases Scopes  1, 2 and 3, other Air Emissions, Water withdrawal and discharge, Hazardous and Non-Hazardous  Waste generation, Ash and Gypsum generation and recycling from coal combustion, Electricity  Generation, Energy Use, Lost Time Incidents (LTI) incidents and fatality rate.   The Sustainability Report 2024 was prepared with""
""reference to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI  Standards) with the inclusion of the GRI Universal Standards 2021 and the GRI Topic Standards  2021, and also considering the Electric Utilities Disclosure supplement dedicated to the sector  issued in 2013, also by GRI.  Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report Our Priority Assessment GRI Index SASB Index Assurance Statement Forward-looking""
""statements / disclaimer  51 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Our Priority Assessment Topic prioritization matrix Our priority assessment is reviewed every year, and a reassessment  is conducted every 3 years (or earlier if deemed necessary after the  annual review). In 2023, with the support of an external consultant,  we refreshed our priority assessment to identify the range of  environmental, social, governance topics and business""
""drivers most  important to the success of the business.   We started by reviewing our external context for which we considered  external stakeholder perspectives, benchmarked ourselves against  peer companies, and analyzed international standards, regulations  and reporting frameworks to understand stakeholder expectations  High Low Medium Climate change Community engagement Safety   GHG Emissions Our people   Talent Mgmt./Learning & development   Inclusion & diversity   Living wage Product""
""quality/Reliability Human rights Customer centricity General disclosure Data security/Cybersecurity Energy consumption Circularity Environmental management   Wast management   Water   Biodiversity   Other air emissions Political contributions Heath & well being Chemical management Executive compensation Impact on AES’ business16 Importance to Stakeholders13 People Ethics & accountability   Board of Directors   Risk management   Governance practices Innovation for sustainability""
""guidance for determining relevant topics and  includes the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)  topics for our sector.  Topics below are platted for illustrative separation, not intended to  directly corelate to X & Y coordinates. Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report Our Priority Assessment GRI Index SASB Index Assurance Statement Forward-looking                       statements / disclaimer  52""
""IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION GRI Index GRI code GRI Indicator Source Page/ Table GRI 2 - General Disclosures 2-1  Organizational details 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 7  2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 50 2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 50 2-4 Restatements of information 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 50 2-5""
""External assurance 2024 Improving Lives Report Pages 56-58 Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Assurance Statement 2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Suppliers - Table 1 2-7  Employees Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Our People - Table 2 and Table 3 2-8 Workers who are not employees Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Our People - Table 1 2-9 Governance structure and composition 2025""
""Proxy Statement  Pages 9-10, 17-22, 27-38 Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Board of directors - Table 1 and Table 2 2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body 2025 Proxy Statement Pages 22-25 2-11 Chair of the highest governance body 2025 Proxy Statement Page 9 2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the management of impacts AES Corporate Governance Guidelines Pages 2, 6 AES Governance Committee Charter 2025 Page 6 2-13 Delegation of responsibility""
""for managing impacts AES Governance Committee Charter 2025 Page 1 2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting AES Governance Committee Charter 2025 Pages 5, 6 2-15 Conflicts of interest 2025 Proxy Statement Page 15 2-16 Communication of critical concerns 2025 Proxy Statement Page 16 2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body 2025 Proxy Statement Pages 22-25 2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body 2025 Proxy Statement Page 22 2-19""
""Remuneration policies 2025 Proxy Statement Pages 39-68 2-20 Process to determine remuneration 2025 Proxy Statement Pages 39-68 2-21 Annual total compensation ratio Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Talent Management - Table 5 2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 3 2-23 Policy commitments Code of Conduct Pages 1-23 Human rights Policy Pages 1-2 2-24 Embedding policy commitments 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 44-45 2-26 Mechanisms for""
""seeking advice and raising concerns 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 45 Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report Our Priority Assessment GRI Index SASB Index Assurance Statement Forward-looking statements / disclaimer  53 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION GRI code GRI Indicator Source Page/ Table 2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations 2024 Improving""
""Lives Report Page 44-45 Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2023 Talent Management - Table 12 2-28 Membership associations 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 26 2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Stakeholders - Table 1 2-30 Collective bargaining agreements Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Talent Management - Table 4 GRI 3 - Material Topics 3-1 Process to determine material topics 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 51 3-2 List of""
""material topics 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 51 3-3 Management of material topics 2024 Improving Lives Report Pages 17, 36, 44 Topic Disclosures 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Energy Consumption - Table 1 302-3 Energy intensity Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Energy Consumption - Table 1 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Energy Consumption - Table 1 2024""
""Improving Lives Report Page 38 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2023 Water (all tables) 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 41 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 41 303-3 Water withdrawal Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Water - Table 1 and Table 3 303-4 Water discharge Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Water - Table 1 and Table 3 303-5 Water consumption Excel""
""data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Water - Table 1 and Table 3 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Emissions - Table 2 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Emissions - Table 4 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Emissions - Table 5 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Emissions - Table 1 305-5""
""Reduction of GHG emissions 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 38 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Emissions - Table 7 306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 42 306-2 Management of significant waste related impacts 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 42 306-3 Waste generated Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Waste - Table 1, Table 3,""
""Table 4 and Table 5 306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Waste - Table 3, Table 4 and Table 5 306-5 Waste directed to disposal Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Waste - Table 3, Table 4 and Table 5 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Talent Management - Table 1 and Table 3 Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability""
""worker health 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 24 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 25 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Health and Safety - Table 3 403-9 Work-related injuries Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Health and Safety - Table 1 and Table 2 404-1 Average hours of training""
""per year per employee Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Talent Management - Table 8 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 19, 21 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Talent Management - Table 11 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Board of directors""
""- Table 1 Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Our People - Table 9 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 2024 Annual Report Page 73-74 Electric Utilities Specific Disclosures (2013) EU1 Installed capacity, broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory regime Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Installed capacity - Table 1 and Table 2 EU2 Energy output broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory""
""regime Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Generation - Table 1 and Table 2 EU3 Number of residential, industrial, institutional and commercial customer accounts Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Operation - Table 3 EU4 Length of above and underground transmission and distribution lines by regulatory regime Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Operations - Table 9 EU10 Planned capacity broken down by energy source and regulatory regime Excel data tables -""
""Sustainability Report 2024 Installed capacity - Table 4 EU11 Generation Efficiency of Thermal Plants Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Operations - Table 4 EU12 Transmission and distribution losses Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Operations - Table 5 EU25 Number of injuries and fatalities to the public involving company assets, including legal judgements, settlements and pending  legal cases of diseases Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Health and Safety""
""- Table 5 EU28 Power outage frequency Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Operations - Table 1 EU29 Average power outage duration Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Operations - Table 1 and Table 2 EU30 Average plant availability factor by energy source Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Operations - Table 3 Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report Our Priority Assessment GRI""
""Index SASB Index Assurance Statement Forward-looking                       statements / disclaimer  55 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION SASB Index SASB code SASB Indicator Source Page/Table Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Metrics IF-EU-110a.1 (1) Gross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage covered under (2) emissions-limiting regulations and (3) emissions-reporting  regulations Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Emissions -""
""Table 2 and Table 6 IF-EU-110a.2 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions associated with power deliveries Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Emissions - Table 5 IF-EU-110a.3 Discussion of long- and short-term strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions reduction targets, and an analysis  of performance against those targets 2024 Improving Lives Report Pages 37-38 IF-EU-120a.1 Air emissions of the following pollutants: (1) NO_{x} (excluding N_{2} O), (2) SO_{x} , (3) particulate""
""matter (PM_{10} ), (4) lead (Pb),  and (5) mercury (Hg); percentage of each in or near areas of dense population Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Emissions - Table 7 IF-EU-140a.1 (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed; percentage of each in regions with High or Extremely High Baseline Water  Stress Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Water - Table 1 and Table 3 IF-EU-140a.2 Number of incidents of non-compliance associated with water quality permits,""
""standards and regulations 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 41 IF-EU-140a.3 Description of water management risks and discussion of strategies and practices to mitigate those risks 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 41 IF-EU-150a.1 Amount of coal combustion residuals (CCR) generated, percentage recycled Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Waste - Table 2 IF-EU-150a.3 Description of coal combustion products (CCPs) management policies and procedures for active and inactive operations 2024""
""Improving Lives Report Page 42 IF-EU-240a.1 Average retail electric rate for (1) residential, (2) commercial, and (3) industrial customers Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Customers - Table 4 IF-EU-240a.3 Number of residential customer electric disconnections for non-payment, percentage reconnected within 30 days Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Customers - Table 6 IF-EU-240a.4 Discussion of impact of external factors on customer affordability of electricity,""
""including the economic conditions of the service  territory Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Stakeholders - Table 1 IF-EU-320a.1 (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR), (2) fatality rate, and (3) near miss frequency rate (NMFR) Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Health and Safety - Table 1 and Table 2 IF-EU-420a.2 Percentage of electric load served by smart grid technology^{2} Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Operations - Table 6 IF-EU-420a.3 Customer""
""electricity savings from efficiency measures, by market^{3} Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Customers - Table 5 IF-EU-540a.2 Description of efforts to manage nuclear safety and emergency preparedness not applicable as AES doesn’t operate any nuclear asset IF-EU-550a.1 Number of incidents of non-compliance with physical or cybersecurity standards or regulations Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Cybersecurity - Table 1 IF-EU-550a.2 (1) System Average Interruption""
""Duration Index (SAIDI), (2) System Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI), and (3)  Customer Average Interruption Duration Index (CAIDI), inclusive of major event days^{4} Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Operations - Table 1 and Table 2 Activity Metrics IF-EU-000.A Number of: (1) residential, (2) commercial, and (3) industrial customers served Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Customers - Table 3 IF-EU-000.B Total electricity delivered to: (1) residential, (2)""
""commercial, (3) industrial, (4) all other retail customers, and (5) wholesale  customers Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Customers - Table 2 IF-EU-000.C Length of transmission and distribution lines Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Operations - Table 9 IF-EU-000.D Total electricity generated, percentage by major energy source, percentage in regulated markets Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Generation - Table 1 and Table 2 IF-EU-000.E Total wholesale""
""electricity purchased Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Operations - Table 8 Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report Our Priority Assessment GRI Index SASB Index Assurance Statement Forward-looking                       statements / disclaimer  56 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION     ) + ) )/..0-) // ( )/  '/$)/*The AES""
""2$/#-2'*-$.#- )$. 3'0 ѵ / -0. $)($)$./-/$1 *!!$ .2.'.* 3'0 Ѹ) •  GHG emissions and EHS data related to AES’ suppliers, contractors and any other thirdҊ+-/$ .2 -  3'0 Ѷ 3 +/ .!*''*2.ѷ*+ т       ($..$*).!*-*+ -/$*).).! /4( /-$.!*-*+ -/$*).)*)./-0/$*)*)/-/*-. where AES has personnel onsite to enforce AES’ EHS requirements.  ’s responsibility is only to ѵ   $.'$(. )4 '$$'$/4 *- - .+*).$$'$/4""
"")*)!$-($)/#/+ -!*-( /# )  ..-4 )'4.$./* / -($) $!. 4 -- '0'/$*)$.)  ..-4ѵ. 4 -- '0'/$*)2.)*/)   ѵ   ’s Standards, Competence and Independence  $(+' ( )/.)($)/$).*(+- # ).$1 () ( )/.4./ (/#/(  /.- $//$*)- ,0$- ( )/.!*-  рупхфGreenhouse gases – Requirements for greenhouse gas validation and verification bodies for use in accreditation or  other forms of recognition )  ҝ  рцпср Conformity""
""|    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Forward-looking  Statements / Disclaimer This report was published June, 2025 and contains forward- looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of  1933 and of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward- looking statements include, but are not limited to, those related  to future energy demand, future power prices, the availability  and cost of natural gas, the growth of solar and other renewable  forms of electricity generation and""
""energy storage, future carbon  taxes or regulations, potential rates of reduction in coalfired  electricity generation, the expected operating life of existing coal- fired electricity generation plants, the level of energy efficiency  investments, emissions or other targets, the impact of demand- side management and AES’ corporate strategy,. Forward-looking  statements are not intended to be a guarantee of future results but  instead constitute AES’ current expectations based on reasonable""
""Corporation, 4300 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Virginia  22203. Exhibits also may be requested, but a charge equal to the  reproduction cost thereof will be made. A copy of the Form 10-K may  also be obtained by visiting the Company’s website at www.aes.com.  Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report Our Priority Assessment GRI Index SASB Index Assurance Statement Forward-looking                       statements""
