""2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONSISTENT WITH EDISON ELECTRIC INSTITUTE (EEI) AND AMERICAN GAS ASSOCIATION (AGA) TEMPLATE  2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  2 Table of Contents         3.       A Letter from Our  President and CEO           4.      About CMS Energy                About this Report               Our Approach   to Sustainability       5.      Awards and  Recognition  Environment           6.      Greenhouse Gas   (GHG) Emissions   and Air Quality    10.""
""Energy Resiliency   and Reliability    13.     Environmental  Compliance      14.     Biodiversity  Social   16.     Energy Affordability   17.      Diversity, Equity   and Inclusion     19.     Fostering a Future- Ready Workforce    21.     Energy Equity and  Environmental  Justice      22.     Caring for Our  Communities    24.     Safety, Health   and Wellness          24.     Physical and Cyber  Security  Governance       27.      Board Oversight       27.      Enterprise Risk""
""Management   28.     Stakeholder  Engagement        28.     Protecting   Human Rights      29.     Political Activity     31.     Additional Reports   and Data          31.     Disclosure     32.     Appendices  By the Numbers     34.     Consumers Energy  Electric Utility     37.      Consumers Energy  Natural Gas Utility         39.     NorthStar   Clean Energy       42.     Endnotes  2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  3 A LETTER FROM OUR PRESIDENT AND CEO  Since the start of""
""our Clean Energy Plan in 2021, our company has been a national leader in sustainability.  By transitioning to renewable energy, we’re offering cleaner and more affordable options for our customers,  all while staying true to our purpose of world-class performance delivering hometown service.  A major action to deliver on our Clean Energy Plan will occur in early 2025 — we’ll be retiring our last three  coal plants: JH Campbell 1, 2, and 3. Going coal-free is a significant step towards positively""
""impacting our  planet. We couldn’t achieve this without the hard work and dedication of our co-workers. As we continue  our Clean Energy Transformation, we’re committed to offering new opportunities to those who have been  an integral part of these coal plants and our company.  Our natural gas side of the business also contributes to our Clean Energy Plan. We are  modernizing our infrastructure and using advanced leak detection to ensure less methane  escapes during the natural gas delivery""
""process. Using innovative technologies, modernizing  the system, and improving processes translates to safe and clean energy.  This year, we’re excited to announce our electric Reliability Roadmap. The five-year plan is  our blueprint for the future to strengthen Michigan’s electric grid. We’re setting ambitious  targets to make sure no customer is without power for more than 24 hours and to prevent  outages from affecting more than 100,000 customers. In short, we’re building a more resilient""
""and reliable grid that can handle extreme weather and better serve our customers.  With big commitments and goals, our team is critical to our success. At CMS Energy, we  believe in the power of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion. Our motto, “We See You and You Belong,” reflects  our commitment to these values. We know that by bringing together our unique experiences, we can achieve  the best results and drive sustainable change for the communities we serve.  Our care for each other extends to our""
""customers and the communities we serve by aiding through our  Foundation and corporate giving programs. In 2023, we connected customers with over $125M of assistance  through company, state, and federal programs to help keep customer bills affordable.  The CMS Energy team is committed to serve and ensure safe, reliable, affordable, equitable, and clean  energy. With the progress we’ve made towards a more sustainable energy future for Michigan and our  unwavering commitment to our customers and""
""co-workers, our future is very bright. Garrick J. Rochow  PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER • CMS ENERGY AND CONSUMERS ENERGY We know that by  bringing together our  unique experiences,  we can achieve the  best results and drive  sustainable change  for the communities  we serve.   2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  4 ABOUT CMS ENERGY CMS Energy Corporation (CMS Energy) is an energy company based in Jackson, Michigan, focused primarily   on utility operations in the state. Its""
""principal business is Consumers Energy Company (Consumers Energy),   a public utility that provides electricity and/or natural gas to 6.8 million of Michigan’s 10 million residents. With  our subsidiary, NorthStar Clean Energy, we are also engaged in independent power generation in several states. ABOUT THIS REPORT CMS Energy participates in several voluntary reporting initiatives, including an industry initiative coordinated  by the Edison Electric Institute (EEI) and the American Gas""
""Association (AGA) that provides the public, our  customers and shareholders a reporting template for uniform and consistent sustainability metrics. This report  follows the EEI/AGA reporting template and supplements our existing sustainability disclosures, including several  indices and reports found on the CMS Energy website and linked in the appendices of this report. OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY CMS Energy has integrated sustainable practices throughout our corporation, including our""
""primary subsidiaries,  Consumers Energy and NorthStar Clean Energy. As the parent company of Michigan’s largest energy provider,  Consumers Energy, we’ve embedded consideration of environmental, social and governance issues in our strategy,  business planning and enterprise risk management processes. These key issues align with our purpose of World  Class Performance Delivering Hometown Service. Our Triple Bottom Line of People, Planet and Prosperity  balances all stakeholders’ interests.""
""Determining which issues are most important to our company and stakeholders is the foundation of our  sustainability efforts. Assessments help us identify, adjust and improve upon sustainability goals and performance.  In 2021, we conducted a Priority Issue Assessment Stakeholder Survey in partnership with a third party. Through  an annual update of survey results and additional analysis, we generate a list of top priority issues each year. The  2023 priority issues in no particular order are: •""
""Climate, greenhouse gas (GHG)  emissions and air quality  •     Environmental compliance  •     Energy resiliency and reliability  •    Cyber security, privacy and security  •         Business ethics and conduct  •  Safety, health, and wellness  •         Diversity, equity, and inclusion  •     Energy affordability Read our 2024 CMS Energy Sustainability Priority Issues Report for more details on these issues and our  assessment process.  2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  5 AWARDS AND""
""RECOGNITION Recent recognition for our commitment to sustainability include:  •        Inclusion in the MSCI ESG Leaders Index, which makes CMS Energy  the only vertically integrated utility in the index.  •        2023 ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year, marking our eleventh consecutive year  •         BEST Winner: Association for Talent Development for 2020, 2021 and 2022  •      Longstanding high ranking by EEI Utility Standards and Safety Performance  •    Top 50 global ranking in Military""
""committed to protecting  the environment and leading the  way to a clean and equitable  energy future. We have set  ambitious planet goals and  have a strong track record of  environmental stewardship. GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG)  EMISSIONS AND AIR QUALITY The environment is a crucial pillar of our  sustainability efforts. Our Priority Assessment  found stakeholders deem our strategic goals  to improve air quality and reduce greenhouse  gases high priority. Our plans demonstrate  we are delivering on""
""our promise to protect,  preserve and restore our environment. Below  are the commitments that Consumers Energy  has made to Michigan and the planet: Net zero methane emissions from our natural gas delivery system by 2030: Under our Methane  Reduction Plan, we plan to reduce methane emissions from our system by about 80 percent by accelerating  the replacement of aging pipe, rehabilitating or retiring outdated infrastructure, and adopting innovative  technologies and practices. The remaining""
""emissions will likely be offset through clean fuel alternatives. Net zero carbon emissions from our electric business by 2040: This goal includes not only emissions from  owned generation, but also emissions from the generation of power purchased through long-term power  purchase agreements (PPAs) and the Midcontinent Independent System Operator (MISO) energy market.  Our 2021 Clean Energy Plan laid out our strategy to meet 90% of customer needs with clean energy resources  by 2040. Our next""
""Renewable Energy and Integrated Resource Plans will show we plan to meet the 100% clean  energy standard by 2040 as set forth in the 2023 Michigan Energy Law. Innovative technologies and carbon  offset measures, including carbon sequestration, forest preservation, and reforestation, may be used to close  the gap to achieving net zero carbon emissions. Net zero greenhouse gas emissions target for our entire business by 2050: This goal incorporates  greenhouse gas emissions from our natural gas""
""delivery system, including suppliers and customers. The target  includes an interim goal to reduce customer emissions by 20 percent by 2030 from 2020 levels. We expect to  meet this goal through carbon offset measures, renewable natural gas, energy efficiency and demand response  programs, and adoption of cost-effective emerging technologies once proven and commercially available. Our Clean Energy Plan  Our 2021 Clean Energy Plan, also known as our Integrated Resource Plan, is our most""
""comprehensive and far- reaching strategy to date to protect our planet and reinforce our reputation as a sustainability leader. Our Clean  Energy Plan is a 20-year blueprint to guide our regulated electric business.   2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  7 Our plan positions us as an industry leader in the Clean Energy Transformation. By reducing emissions and  expanding clean energy options, we will improve air quality, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and protect the  environment for""
""generations to come. The plan will: End coal use in 2025: Eliminating coal use 15 years sooner than initially planned will improve air quality,   cut greenhouse gas emissions, reduce landfill waste and dramatically reduce our water use.  Increase renewable energy: We plan to add nearly 8,000 megawatts of solar over the next two decades   as we meet Michigan’s new Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS) of 50% by 2030 and 60% by 2035.  Transition to a smarter grid: Energy waste reduction, demand""
""response, and emerging technologies   like grid modernization will lower peak customer demand.  Deploying battery storage: Our plan accelerates energy storage and we plan to update it so that we   will comply with Michigan’s 2023 Energy Law that requires 2,500 megawatts of planned storage across   the state by 2030.  Offer more customer control and savings: The plan deepens our commitment to energy and cost savings  options for customers.  Help ensure energy affordability: We expect to save""
""customers up to $600 million through 2040 compared   to our 2018 Clean Energy Plan.  Advance a flexible strategy: Our plan responds to emerging needs, adapts to changing conditions   and embraces new, innovative technologies.  Ensure supply reliability: The purchase of the existing natural gas-fired Covert Generation Station in  Michigan’s Van Buren County helps us transition from coal without creating new greenhouse gas sources. Our Clean Energy Plan will also help us reduce carbon emissions""
""from owned generation by about 60 percent from  2005 levels by year-end of 2026 and continue our progress toward net zero carbon emissions by 2040. This is a  quicker pace than the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change suggests is needed to limit global temperature  increases to less than 1.5˚C.  Michigan’s 2023 energy law increased the RPS to 50 percent by 2030 and 60 percent by 2035. The law also  created a clean energy standard of 80 percent by 2035 and 100 percent by 2040. Our next""
""Renewable Energy  and Integrated Resource Plans will detail how we plan to plan to meet these standards. Carbon Emissions Percent Reduction  2005 BASELINE (27.7 MILLION TONS) 100% 75% 50% 25% 0% REDUCTION 2040 2035 2030 2025 2023 73% 61% 62% 52% 31%  2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  8 Expanding Renewable Energy  Our Clean Energy Plan includes a major renewable generation build out by 2040. We plan to add capacity  incrementally, enabling planning and resource-type flexibility to adapt to""
""changing conditions. Our goal is to add  nearly 8,000 megawatts of solar energy over the next two decades. We plan to add solar capacity — a mix of owned  and purchased power using a competitive-bid annual solicitation process — to keep costs affordable. By combining renewable generation with energy storage advances and customer demand reduction programs,  we plan to meet our customers’ energy needs on the hottest days with clean energy resources. By 2025, renewable  nameplate capacity —""
""including capacity from power purchase agreements — will have grown to 30 percent, an  increase from 14 percent in 2021. We look forward to continued growth as we transition from coal to renewables. We own and operate five wind parks in Michigan: Lake Winds Energy Park (100 megawatts) in Mason County,  Cross Winds Energy Park (231 megawatts) in Tuscola County, Crescent Wind Farm (166 megawatts) in  Hillsdale County, Gratiot Farms Wind Project (150 megawatts) in Gratiot County, and Heartland Wind""
""Farm  (201 megawatts) in Gratiot County. We also offer voluntary renewable energy customer programs. These programs accelerate our journey to net zero  carbon emissions as outlined in our Clean Energy Plan and enable our customers to participate fully in the Clean  Energy Transformation. For example, our Solar Gardens program allows customers to affordably subscribe to  blocks of solar energy without purchasing or installing their own panels. To support equitable access to solar  benefits, the""
""MI Sunrise component of Solar Gardens allows schools and nonprofit community organizations to  subscribe on behalf of income-qualified customers. The program also provides credits on subscribers’ utility bills. Similarly, our Large Customer Renewable Energy Program helps businesses meet their sustainability goals,  attract capital and improve their sustainability brands. The program has 120 megawatts of capacity that is fully  subscribed, and 686 megawatts of contracted customer demand to""
""support the build-out of new wind and solar  resources. In 2024, the 1,000 MW cap on this program was removed, enabling us to continue to serve the growing  interest in renewables from our business customers. We are actively pursuing new renewable energy assets through  a competitive solicitation process to meet increasing customer demand for this program. Customers Can Offset Carbon Emissions   Through MI Clean Air Program MI Clean Air, a program offering customers the opportunity to reduce""
""their carbon footprint associated with natural gas use, is expanding.  The program, which offers Michigan-based forestry carbon offsets,  will now include several renewable natural gas projects (RNG)  developed in partnership with farmers across the state, increasing  options for customers to offset a portion — or all — of the emissions  associated with their natural gas use through carbon offsets. + Read More Balancing Energy Demand  Partnering with our business and residential customers to""
""reduce energy use is a critical element of our Clean  Energy Plan. Our demand response programs help business and residential customers reduce their use during  peak hours on high-demand days, which reduces our need to deliver additional purchased or produced energy  at peak times when prices are highest. Through our demand response portfolio, we also offered customers the  opportunity to build energy awareness, save money and understand energy price signals. We take pride in our  environmental""
""leadership and commitment to responsibly manage customer bill impacts.  2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  9 In 2023, our customers enrolled in demand response totaling 644 megawatts — enough to exceed our  618-megawatt target and avoid building another power plant. More affordable and better for the planet, we  integrate demand response into our capacity portfolio to meet the aggressive program goals in our regulatory  filings with the Michigan Public Service Commission. Our Electric""
""Vehicle Transformation  We’re leading Michigan’s electric vehicle transformation by committing to power 1 million electric vehicles by  2030. The goal would put Michigan in the driver’s seat for the next generation of clean, zero-emissions vehicles   and support our company’s clean energy goals.  By every measure, Michigan continues to see interest in electric vehicles accelerate. We are proud to power that  transformation, working with drivers, business owners and community leaders to make EV""
""ownership convenient,  affordable and clean. Our support for Michigan’s EV transformation includes: Customer programs. Incentives for over 5,000 EV chargers for homes, businesses and in public places  through our programs. PowerMIDrive incentivizes off-peak charging at home and at your overnight  destination when electricity is cheapest and optimizes the grid for all customers. PowerMIFleet offers fleet  customers independent consulting services to help evaluate adding EVs and EV charging""
""systems (including  workplace Level 2 and fast chargers) to their business operations, in addition to the many financial benefits  available for charging off-peak. Expert help. Customers can connect with our EV specialists to answer their questions, whether they’re  considering an EV purchase or have driven thousands of miles. Like a concierge service, our specialists help  customers select the charger that best meets their needs, schedule an electrician to quickly and safely install it,""
""facilitate applicable rebates and direct customers to their best value off-peak rate option. And it’s free. To learn  more, visit our website. More EV charging. By 2030, we expect to power 5,900 more EV fast chargers at 1,500 public locations  throughout Michigan, and 157,000 Level 2 chargers at hotels and apartments to promote EV access for renters  and travelers. Rebates for multifamily and community charging. Our PowerMIDrive program provides rebates for   EV chargers at apartments and other""
""multifamily locations where vehicle owners need to charge their   vehicles overnight. The multifamily EV charging program offers $7,500 rebates to encourage property owners  to invest in overnight charging for their tenants. A community charging pilot will provide a $7,500 rebate   to 25 Michigan municipalities that install a charger in public parking lots or curbside locations, with a focus  on places within one block of multifamily properties. Learn more at ConsumersEnergy.com/overnightcharge""
""or ConsumersEnergy.com/communitycharging. Leading by example. We aim to electrify 30% of our internal fleet by 2030 and all light-duty purchases after  2030. Despite market challenges, we are committed to adopting EV technology. Using data and collaboration,  we strive to maximize EV effectiveness in reducing emissions. In 2024, we’ll add 20 Silverado EV pickups and  an all-electric bucket truck.  Preparing electric grid for the influx of EVs. Over 90 percent of all EV charging we track takes""
""place   outside the peak hours of 2-7 p.m. That means EVs are using the grid at times when demand is low, limiting   or even eliminating the need to build power plants to meet the additional demand. We are the top-performing  EV load management utility in the nation! More kWh through the same infrastructure means downward   rate pressure for all customers, whether they drive an EV or not. Now that’s optimizing the grid!  2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  10 ENERGY RESILIENCY AND""
""RELIABILITY We are modernizing our electric distribution system to continue safely supplying affordable, reliable power for  Michigan. We’re replacing poles and wires, upgrading substations and exploring the value of burying more power  lines to strengthen the network that keeps power flowing to our homes and businesses every day. Our goal is  simple: fewer, shorter and less frequent power outages for our customers. Additionally, we’re creating a more stable system to serve our state for decades""
""to come. That means using the latest  smart technology to pave the way for electric vehicles while increasing capacity to avoid outages and overloads. We filed our updated five-year Reliability Roadmap with the Michigan Public Service Commission in September  2023. It’s a blueprint for serving Michigan today and innovating to meet tomorrow’s challenges. While the risk of wildfire events within Consumers Energy’s territory remains lower than Western utilities, given  the significant wildfire""
""events in Hawaii and Texas, mitigating this risk has become increasing important to the  electric utility industry. Accordingly, Consumers Energy is taking a stand to prevent destructive wildfires in  Michigan. We filed our Wildfire Risk Mitigation plan with the Michigan Public Service Commission in 2024.  This plan describes the company’s approach to mitigating the risk of wildfires caused by or impacting electrical  infrastructure and surrounding communities throughout our service territory""
""with safety as the top priority.  We first identified the growing risk of wildfires due to changing weather patterns in the Reliability Roadmap and  subsequently created this plan to mitigate that risk. Powering a New Vision  We’re leading the transition to a resilient clean energy future. As energy demand and extreme weather threats  increase, strengthening the energy grid is more important than ever — and so is ensuring fair and equitable access  to all customers. With continued investment,""
""technological advances and support from regulators and key stakeholders, our  Reliability Roadmap can dramatically transform how we serve Michigan.  We envision a future when: •    No single outage affects more than 100,000 customers.  •        All customers have power restored within 24 hours after an outage event. Our Roadmap  We’re serving our 1.9 million electric customers throughout Michigan’s Lower Peninsula with a system that’s safe,  reliable, affordable and clean. Our five-year plan""
""improves reliability performance by focusing primarily on: Infrastructure upgrades: We’re making prudent, proactive investments to replace or rebuild poles, better  understand how to bury power lines cost-effectively and organize circuits more efficiently to ensure fewer  customers are impacted by outages. Forestry management: Traditional tree trimming is still the most effective way to prevent and shorten power  outages and improve system reliability. Our plan significantly increases spending""
""on tree trimming to keep  distribution lines clear. Grid modernization: Smart meters, sensors and automation devices work together to help us monitor our  system more effectively, optimize power delivery and solve problems faster, often before customers notice. Energy equity and environmental justice: We will continue to evaluate how different communities  experience reliability and resiliency and consider environmental justice as we determine priority  infrastructure investment projects. We""
""will also weigh future implications for grid access when it comes to  EVs and other technologies.  2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  11 Customer Benefits  Resiliency: Michiganders are experiencing more frequent and severe storms due, in part, to climate change.  We’re designing a tougher, harder grid built to face whatever Mother Nature throws our way. Our poles, for  example, will be designed sustain winds over 100 miles per hour under expected storm conditions. Reliability: Keeping the""
""lights on is a top priority. We know how frustrating and disruptive power outages are  for our customers, and we’re investing in the resources to continue meeting Michigan’s peak electricity needs  on the hottest summer day. Affordability: We’re determined to provide maximum energy value for every customer dollar. That means  carefully considering every investment in our system to ensure it produces effective, efficient results for all  customers. Safety and security: Nothing is more important""
""than protecting our customers, our co-workers and the  communities we serve. From properly training lineworkers to guarding downed wires and employing the  latest cybersecurity tactics, we’re committed to working safely. Sustainability: We define sustainability as practices that help our communities thrive without putting future  generations at risk. We’re building Michigan’s grid to last and reducing energy waste to protect the planet. Reliability Roadmap:   Sometimes Off-Roading is Required""
""When you think of energy providers and power restoration, you  likely think of lineworkers and bucket trucks. While that’s true, there  are hundreds of behind-the-scenes employees - from dispatch to  forestry to system control – who are dedicated to keeping the lights  on for our customers.  It’s not just boots on the dry ground doing the work. Some of our  co-workers are navigating a military-like precision vehicle through  Michigan’s waters. A few are flying in a helicopter to inspect power""
""lines. Some are operating drones to locate downed wires and other  potential issues.  + Read More Meeting Demand Through Natural Gas Operations  We’re one of the nation’s largest natural gas companies. Our infrastructure comprises more than 28,000 miles of  distribution main and about 2,400 miles of transmission pipeline. We continually make improvements to ensure  we deliver safe, reliable, affordable and clean energy to our natural gas customers. Our Natural Gas Delivery Plan, updated""
""annually, is a 10-year natural gas system investment plan. The plan,  valued at over $12 billion, includes accelerated infrastructure replacements, innovative leak detection technology  and key process changes to reduce or eliminate methane emissions. Advancing a Cleaner Natural Gas Future  In early 2022, we pledged to protect the planet by achieving net zero greenhouse gas emissions from the   company’s entire natural gas production and delivery system — including emissions from customers and""
""suppliers — by 2050. Achieving net zero emissions means eliminating the impact associated with the burning of natural gas by  customers and greenhouse gas emissions caused by natural gas suppliers who produce and transport natural   gas to our system.  2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  12 Natural gas is safe and affordable, and now it can be even cleaner. We’re making historic, industry-leading changes  to protect our planet. This commitment is another step in leading the Clean Energy""
""Transformation for Michigan. Reaching net zero will require us to balance many diverse emissions reduction opportunities with safe, reliable,  and affordable energy delivery. It will also require partnerships with stakeholders across Michigan to ensure a  decarbonized gas system can continue to meet the needs of customers, communities and businesses. To support Michigan’s decarbonization goal to reach carbon neutrality by 2050, we set an interim goal to help  our customers reduce Scope 3""
""emissions by 20 percent from 2020 levels by 2030. Our Scope 3 emissions reduction  plan includes energy waste reduction, renewable natural gas, carbon offsets and emerging decarbonization  technologies. Each must contribute to our 20 percent-by-2030 goal while on Michigan’s path to net zero carbon  emissions by 2050. Pursuing a net zero goal for all emission sources, including those from customers and suppliers, aligns the  company’s efforts with Michigan’s MI Healthy Climate Plan to achieve net""
""zero carbon emissions by 2050. The  2050 goal also aligns with the recommendations of the Paris Agreement to limit global warming to less than  1.5 °C. An interim goal for the natural gas side of the business does not meet this recommendation. We are deeply invested in several tools to support customers and suppliers who want to reduce their emissions,  including: Carbon offsets: The company received regulatory approval for a new program for residential and business  customers who want to""
""voluntarily offset carbon emissions from their natural gas use. This program centers  on forestry-based carbon offsets in Michigan. The company supplies offsets from an in-state forestry project  located in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula, limiting the volume of deforestation, promoting clean air, preserving  wildlife habitats and advancing clean carbon storage. Renewable natural gas, or RNG: Produced from organic wastes and other renewable sources, RNG is  interchangeable with conventional natural""
""gas and a key technology available to offset methane emissions.  The company announced an agreement with Swisslane Farms in West Michigan to build multiple biodigester  facilities that will convert agricultural waste into RNG. Early in 2024, we received regulatory approval to  build, own, operate and maintain RNG production plants to serve customers on a voluntary basis. Energy waste reduction: We help customers reduce energy waste and lower energy bills with several energy  efficiency programs""
""for residential customers, small and medium-sized businesses and large commercial and  industrial customers. Our plan also evaluates emerging technology like hydrogen production, carbon emissions capture and storage,  and customers’ use of hybrid natural gas and electric heat pump systems. Leading the Clean Energy  Transformation with “Agri Energy  Center” in Southwest Michigan  With help from Michigan farmers, we’ve planted the seeds for a  brighter energy future in the lush green fields""
""northwest of Battle  Creek, where a nearly defunct dairy farm will soon produce both  solar power and renewable natural gas alongside its farming  operations.  We originally bought nearly 3,000 acres at the Spring Creek farm  straddling Calhoun and Barry counties as part of a plan to build a  utility-scale solar power plant. Rather than shutter the farm’s existing  dairy operations, we’ve partnered with Swisslane Farms, a large  dairy farm near Grand Rapids, to keep the business running and""
""provide fuel for a new biodigester to convert into clean, renewable  natural gas, or RNG.  + Read More  2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  13 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE We’re committed to sustainable and compliant operations as outlined in our Corporate Environmental Policy.  We demonstrate this commitment by exercising the precautionary principle and conducting due diligence to  identify and minimize environmental impacts in the communities where we operate. Environmental compliance  is""
""ingrained in our processes and values. Environmental policy is the core of our Environmental Management System (EMS). We maintain and continually  improve an EMS modeled on the International Organization of Standardization 14001 standards. These standards  consist of environmental best practices to help organizations comply with applicable regulations, minimize  environmental impacts and continually improve their processes to achieve compliance. Additionally, our internal  compliance team""
""conducts annual environmental compliance reviews. Caring for Land, Water and Wildlife and Reducing Waste  We love Michigan and work continually to improve the place we call home. This includes setting land, waste and  water protection goals. In 2021, we exceeded our five-year planet goals to enhance, restore or protect 5,000 acres  of land in Michigan, save 1 billion gallons of water from a 2017 baseline and reduce waste sent to landfills by  35 percent — all a full year ahead of schedule. We""
""met our goals with companywide efforts like environmental  cleanups, improving wildlife habitats, increasing recycling at our facilities and finding new ways to conserve water  at our generation facilities. To build on this success, we’ve set additional five-year goals, including: Land: Enhance, restore or protect 6,500 acres from 2023 through the end of 2027.  Waste: Maintain our annual waste diversion (reused/recycled) rate of at least 90 percent through 2027.  Water: Reduce water usage via""
""process water reductions by 1.7 billion gallons through 2027. These efforts,  when combined with once-through cooling water reductions, will result in 99% reductions in overall water  use by 2026 for Consumers Energy. 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% 2017 46% 2024 58% 2026 99% 2032 99.7% 2012 BASELINE REDUCTION Water Usage Percent Reduction   2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  14 Retiring our remaining coal-fired plants in 2025 will positively impact water conservation. We expect to reduce  overall""
""water use by 99 percent by 2026 compared to our 2012 levels. In 2023 alone, we saved over 660 million  gallons through operational changes and reduced our once-through cooling water at our coal plants by nearly   100 billion gallons. Other water efficiency efforts include:  •       Prioritizing water conservation when considering new generation sources.  •     Developing strategies to save and reuse water during pipe replacements.  •      Reducing and recycling water at steam-fired plants.  •""
""Collecting and reusing water that runs off coal piles. Through a water reduction initiative at our coal generation sites, engineers evaluated water use for bottom ash  transport. We reduced bottom ash transport water use from three times daily to twice daily, reducing our use   by millions of gallons every year. Additionally, we have alternative water use initiatives, such as on-site stormwater capture, to supplement our  freshwater needs and further reduce the amount of freshwater extracted""
""from surface water and the ground. Committed to Protecting the  Planet and Its Critters    With our facilities, pipelines and wires covering   thousands of acres across the Lower Peninsula,   we understand our responsibility to care for our   lands, which often includes taking care of the   animals who live there.   + Read More BIODIVERSITY We also take pride in our passionate employees who look for opportunities to continuously improve the company’s  impact on Michigan’s biodiverse ecosystems.""
""In 2024, we set a goal to plant 4,000 trees between 2024 and 2027. Through our biodiversity efforts, we do what’s right, not merely what’s required. That includes applying our  Environmental Review Checklist (ERC) process to every project we undertake that impacts the environment. The  ERC helps ensure projects are designed with the environment in mind. The ERC also ensures we comply with all  environmental laws and regulations, minimize our negative environmental impact, and when possible,""
""improve  environmental quality. Our Environmental Quality and Sustainability team uses the ERC to evaluate all projects and identify  environmentally amenable solutions. The ERC leverages a best-practice hierarchy approach to assess habitats.  The assessment yields useful information for engineers as they design and build projects to minimize or mitigate  disturbance to the environment. And the approach is working. For example: In 2023 and 2024, we released 24 and 56 turtle hatchlings,""
""respectively,  back into natural wetland habitats after the juveniles were rescued as eggs along the path of the Mid-Michigan  Pipeline Project. The turtles came from eggs of adult females that were safely removed from the pipeline path  throughout the course of the summer and were incubated and nurtured by Herpetological Resource and  Management (HRM).  2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  15 While working on Mid-Michigan Phase I, the Construction crew discovered a fox den in the middle of""
""the right of  way. The team fenced off the den and allowed the mother to enter and exit until the kits were old enough to leave.  They successfully relocated once they were old enough, without disturbance from the pipeline installation. In 2023, we released our first biodiversity report. This annual report highlights efforts to protect, enhance and  restore land in Michigan through sustainable construction and project planning, employee volunteerism and  corporate giving. Read our 2024 report""
""here. Two Dozen Young Turtles Rescued During  Mid-Michigan Pipeline Project Return Home  With a hand from some young helpers, we recently released two  dozen little turtles back into their natural habitat after they were  rescued during construction of our Mid-Michigan Pipeline Project.  Several employees and their children joined the turtle release in  rural Ingham County. The turtles came from eggs of adult females  carefully removed from the pipeline path and were incubated and  nurtured by""
""Chelsea-based HRM with help from Sea Life Michigan  Aquarium.  + Read More  2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  16 SOCIAL Achieving our goals extends beyond   our environmental commitments.   We’re deliberate in making decisions   that positively impact our customers   and communities with a focus on our  customers’ needs, diversity equity   and inclusion (DE&I), labor and human   rights, safety and security. ENERGY AFFORDABILITY Keeping energy bills affordable for our customers is core to""
""how we operate as a business. Reducing energy use through  aggressive energy waste reduction not only benefits the planet  but our customers as well. We also demonstrate care for our  customers through support of energy assistance programs. Our Energy Efficiency Programs  In 2023, our energy waste reduction programs helped  customers save over 650 GWh and nearly 3.8 Bcf in energy  consumption resulting in a boost to total customer savings of $6.3 billion since 2009. The programs also prevented""
""nearly 28 million tons of carbon dioxide emissions. Cumulative savings from 2009 to 2023 are equivalent to  supplying electricity to about 4.3 million homes and natural gas to about 1.9 million homes for a year. Exceeding our statutory energy savings requirements, we’ve set a target to achieve an average of 2 percent and  1 percent incremental electric and natural gas savings respectively over the course of our 2024-2025 energy waste  reduction plan. In recognition of these efforts, we received""
""the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s 2023 ENERGY  STAR® Partner of the Year — Sustained Excellence Award, the EPA’s highest recognition for corporate energy  management. It’s the 11th year we’ve received the recognition for our energy management performance. Help for Low-Income Customers  Our energy waste reduction (EWR) plan reflects our commitment to achieve aggressive energy savings and  increase investment in low-income energy efficiency programs. These efforts include developing""
""innovative  approaches to connecting EWR with low-income energy assistance programs and increasing funding for more  holistic low-income, single-family and multifamily housing measures. In 2023, we continued to expand the Income Qualified Health and Safety pilot, which helps customers address  structural or other damage in their homes that hinders installing energy saving measures. The cornerstone of the  pilot, and all EWR program income-qualified efforts, is collaboration with partner""
""agencies. This helps leverage  EWR investments and implement comprehensive solutions to reduce customers’ energy burden. The EWR  program also launched the Flint Initiative, a targeted approach to identify and provide EWR and health and safety  intervention to single and multifamily customers struggling to pay energy bills in six Flint, Michigan zip codes  identified by EWR stakeholders as priority areas with strong community partner agency support.  2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  17""
""Creating Energy Efficiency  Solutions for all Customers  Offering energy efficiency solutions to help our customers save  energy and money is nothing new. In fact, since 2009, our energy  efficiency programs have saved customers over $6.3 billion on their  bills and helped nearly 200,000 low-income customers make their  homes and apartments more energy efficient and affordable. Last  year, we created a pilot program and invested more than $1 million in  initiatives to improve quality of life and""
""reduce bills for customers in  historically disadvantaged communities in Michigan.  + Read More Additionally, in 2022 and 2023, we committed $4.5 million through energy assistance programs to fund a bill  payment pilot program and $7.2 million in other direct assistance to low-income customers struggling to pay their  energy bills. Through 2022 and 2023, we made direct payments of about $23 million to the past-due bills of about  31,000 low-to-moderate-income customers. DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND""
""in specialized areas   such as renewable energy, technological innovation, and data analysis, we offer competitive compensation  and benefits. Our holistic talent management approach is designed to attract, nurture, and retain highly  skilled co-workers. This strategy encompasses:  Nurturing a mission-centric culture: We ensure our team members grasp their integral role in  achieving our strategic objectives.  Innovating the employee experience: We’re committed to fostering a sense of pride and""
""efforts, facilitating education sessions and workshops,  identifying and addressing local inclusion gaps - solving problems for inclusive outcomes, and  integrating DE&I within our external partnerships. Building the workforce of the future: In 2018, we began a partnership with the UWUA and the  Power 4America (P4A) trust to develop the Renewables Specialist Apprenticeship program. The  apprenticeship program’s goal is designed to develop a skilled workforce in-house to support the  renewable""
""generation assets as we add clean energy to our portfolio. So far, 12 apprentices have  completed the program and are now helping operate and maintain our wind farms and Solar   Gardens facilities. Partnering in reliability: Our five-year, nearly $9 billion Reliability Roadmap is a blueprint for serving  Michigan today and innovating to meet the challenges of the coming decades. We’re investing in more  workers and more training to accelerate upgrades that benefit customers and communities.""
""Reliability Roadmap, our plan for a smarter and stronger electric  grid, as well as encouraging people to work in the natural gas, clean  energy and electric vehicle fields. + Read More Advancing Labor Rights  We’re also deliberate in our actions to prioritize labor rights. CMS Energy and our subsidiaries comply with  all applicable U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning our employees and labor issues in  each of the states where we conduct business. Standards, including""
""outlined in   our Third-Party Code of Conduct. Ensuring Just Transition  We partner with our co-workers and communities to ensure they’re treated justly and equitably as part  of our Clean Energy Transformation, including our transition away from coal. Reinventing ourselves as a  cleaner, leaner and more flexible energy company produces significant benefits for customers, employees  and the communities we serve. But we recognize our bold plans can create new challenges. As we prepare to retire""
""our remaining coal-fired plants in 2025, we draw on previous experience in retiring  our “Classic Seven” coal-fired plants. This process helped us develop a transition plan that supports our  employees and communities. It includes: •        Committing to fair and equitable treatment of impacted employees, including  offering new positions for those who wish to remain with our company.  •   Engaging in clear and ongoing communication with affected communities  and stakeholders that extends beyond""
""everything we do for our co-workers, customers and communities. Advancing  environmental justice is a prime example of this commitment in action. Environmental justice centers  on protecting communities — especially our most vulnerable — from environmental harm caused by  industrial practices. Achieving environmental justice means building and delivering a right-fit, scalable  strategy to ensure every community sees maximum energy investment according to its needs with minimal  environmental""
""impact and energy burden. Understanding our impacts and our communities’ needs. As part of our 2021 Integrated Resource  Plan, we conducted an environmental justice analysis to help understand our environmental and  societal impacts in the Clean Energy Transformation. The analysis confirmed our Clean Energy Plan  will enhance our efforts to protect communities from environmental harm. We were among the first  utilities in Michigan to conduct the analysis, and we plan to do so in future""
""regulatory proceedings as  part of our commitment to care for the communities we serve. Identifying disproportionately impacted communities. We use the State of Michigan’s MiEJScreen  interactive mapping tool to help assess how energy burden is distributed across Michigan communities.  The tool connects with census tracts to yield composite scores highlighting areas that experience more  pollution burden and socioeconomic vulnerability than those with lower scores. Our initial analysis  revealed""
""MiEJScreen threshold communities have better reliability than the system, on average. We’re  also proposing improvements to replace vintage open wire secondary lines with new higher-capacity,   2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  22 safer and more durable shielded triplex cable. These upgrades help ensure residents, especially in  MiEJScreen communities benefit from an equitable Clean Energy Transformation. Further analysis is  ongoing, and as that develops, we will continue to evaluate and""
""prioritize reliability in environmental  justice communities. Working to embed environmental justice into our operational and investment strategies. Better data  yields better decisions for disproportionately impacted customers and communities. We’re working to  embed energy equity and environmental justice into our electric, natural gas and customer experience  decision-making processes. As an example, our electric distribution planning team has added  MiEJScreen environmental justice impact""
""scores as an input to determining priority infrastructure  investment projects. Deploying sustainable development practices. Beyond ending coal use, our plan also includes more  owned and contracted renewables (solar and wind) through 2040, which also fuels our supplier  diversity goals. Our sustainable development practices prioritize being good corporate neighbors  and constructing, maintaining and operating our facilities according to the highest safety and  environmental standards. We’re""
""committed to collaborating with landowners and local communities   to select optimal project locations and proactively communicate clearly about project plans and  benefits. We’re equally committed to minimizing environmental impacts to land, the species living   on it, and rights of way. Tapping stakeholders’ knowledge, perspectives and successes. We are actively collaborating with  stakeholders committed to defining, measuring and implementing environmental justice efforts in  Michigan and""
""nationally. These include energy industry trade associations and the Michigan Public  Service Commission’s Energy Affordability and Accessibility Collaborative. Within the company, our  DE&I, environmental, gas strategy and electric distribution teams, along with our Executive DE&I  Council, are working to identify and address energy equity and environmental justice priorities for   our customers and communities. CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES We are committed to making life better for customers by""
""directly supporting local communities through  charitable giving and volunteerism. We do this by sponsoring community events throughout our service  territory, engaging employees and retirees to volunteer in their communities, facilitating in-kind donations  to schools and nonprofit organizations, spearheading corporate charitable donations, and providing grant  dollars to nonprofits through the work of the Consumers Energy Foundation. In 2023, the Consumers  Energy Foundation, Consumers Energy""
""and our employees and retirees contributed more than $11 million  to Michigan nonprofits and municipalities. The Consumers Energy Foundation  We’ve given back to Michigan communities for nearly 138 years, and since 1990, we’ve helped local  communities grow and thrive through the Consumers Energy Foundation. The Foundation contributes to  the strengthening of Michigan communities by investing in what’s most important — our people, our planet  and Michigan’s prosperity. In 2023, the Consumers""
""Energy Foundation contributed more than $7.8 million  to nonprofit organizations throughout Michigan. Foundation giving is separate from other company contributions and cannot be used to directly benefit the  corporation. The Foundation is funded by company donations not included in customer rates. 2023 Signature Grant Awards  Each year, the Consumers Energy Foundation makes signature grant allocations of $500,000 each (totaling  $1.5 million). These signature grant allocations are named the""
""People Awards, the Planet Awards and  the Prosperity Awards. Each grant round provides up to $250,000 to two or more Michigan nonprofit  organizations striving to make a positive impact aligned with the corresponding signature grant area.   2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  23 Nonprofit organizations throughout Michigan can submit letters of intent for these signature grants and the  top projects are invited to submit applications for consideration. In 2023, the Consumers Energy""
""The Storehouse of Community Resources  ($250,000). 2023 Planet Awards. The Consumers Energy Foundation is dedicated to ensuring Michigan has  world class natural resources by funding organizations and programs that strengthen environmental  education and stewardship, preserve Michigan’s natural beauty and reduce environmental impact when  natural resources are used. In 2023, the Consumers Energy Foundation celebrated Earth Month by  providing $500,000 to support two projects that aim to protect""
""threatened and endangered species and  create natural spaces. The recipients of the 2023 Planet Awards were the Nature Conservancy-Michigan  Chapter ($250,000) and the Genesee Conservation District ($250,000). 2023 Prosperity Awards. The Consumers Energy Foundation passionately believes all Michiganders  deserve to live in safe, affordable communities rife with public assets and world class cultural resources  that enrich the lives of residents and visitors. These elements are critical to""
""Clean Energy Future  In June of 2023, we commemorated the formal closure of two Karn  coal plants with a ceremonial lowering of the facilities’ flag. The  event was attended by generations of employees and retirees, union  leadership and community members, including the Karn family.  Named for former Consumers Energy President Dan E. Karn, the  plant began operating 64 years ago.  + Read More PHYSICAL AND CYBER SECURITY Physical and Cyber Security teams partner closely as members of the same""
""Energy and Consumers Energy  integrate several levels of sustainability  oversight into daily operations. We use  several governance and risk management  tools when addressing sustainability  matters. These include oversight by the  Board and its committees, an enterprise risk  management (ERM) program and robust  strategic and business planning processes. BOARD OVERSIGHT Our Board is comprised of directors with experience and  knowledge in sustainability issues. The Board also deploys  the""
""highest level of sustainability practices oversight. Reviews  of these practices occur at the Board and Board committee  level. The Board also oversees our strategy and operations,  including significant risk items and the corporate risk  assessment process. The Audit Committee oversees our ERM framework, which  includes strategic and operational risks, and processes,  guidelines and policies for identifying, assessing, monitoring  and mitigating such risks. The Governance Committee reviews and""
""evaluates the composition of the Board, recommending Board nominees,  broadly overseeing corporate governance and advising and assisting the Board in public responsibility and  sustainability matters. Acknowledging the growing importance of sustainability and climate-related matters, the Board in 2018 formally  tasked the Governance Committee with oversight of sustainability practices by adding this responsibility to its charter. The Compensation Committee is responsible for our executive""
""compensation structure, benefit and compensation  plans and critical human resource programs. The Finance Committee regularly considers topics such as safety, environmental, quality and morale when approving  capital projects and monitoring their progress. The CMS Energy website discloses committee charters and other  governance documents, including our Corporate Governance Principles. Separate from our Board, our Environment & Sustainability Council, comprised of senior leaders, also guides our""
""environmental compliance and sustainability programs and governs decisions that support our commitment to the  planet. This includes short- and long-term strategic decisions pertaining to environmental issues including climate  goals and physical risks and sustainability disclosure reporting. ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT  In addition to a robust oversight structure, we maintain an ERM program to ensure risks that may significantly  impact the business are known, understood, and used to inform""
""risk-mitigation strategies. The scope, roles and  responsibilities related to the ERM program are included in our corporate risk policy, which is approved by the Board’s  Audit Committee. The ERM program covers risks for CMS Energy and our subsidiaries across many areas: strategic,  operational, regulatory, environmental, financial, information technology and cyber security.  2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  28 One area addressed through our risk program is the physical impacts of""
""climate change. As Michigan’s most far-reaching  energy provider, Consumers Energy is especially focused on climate change resiliency and has a cross-functional team  known as the Climate Adaptation and Resiliency Team to discuss these potential impacts on our assets and how to address  these issues cost-effectively. In fact, Consumers Energy was among the first utilities in the Midwest to publish a report  analyzing climate change risks to our infrastructure, the Climate Change Risk,""
""Vulnerability, and Resiliency Report. Internal and external data sources offer long-term strategic planning input. The information is used to assess our strategic  choices and underlying assumptions. Data is analyzed and synthesized into an update on trends and new opportunities  that are critical to our current and future business. The data influences multiple areas of our strategy, including distributed  energy resources, wholesale markets, customer energy use trends and climate policy.""
""and business and  civic leaders. We put stakeholder engagement first as we deployed a thoughtful and thorough approach to closing two coal plants in  Michigan’s Bay region. We continue to evaluate the site and work closely with local leaders to determine next steps for the  grounds. The plant property is already home to a diverse array of wildlife, including eagles, deer, and fish. We also eased  the transition for Karn employees who wish to remain with the company and those who elected to""
""retire from the plant or  move on to other career opportunities. As another example, we are committed to doing right by our customers and communities that are home to our 13  hydroelectric dam facilities – and to evaluating all options surrounding the future of our dams. We’ve met regularly with  community stakeholders and the public since 2022, and we have completed economic contribution studies on each dam.  We have convened meetings to review and discuss results of the studies with""
""stakeholders in the community. Shareholder discussions are also included in our ongoing outreach. We value these opportunities, and the Board considers  their feedback when evaluating corporate governance issues. Management regularly participates in shareholder and  industry conferences to discuss performance and sustainability topics. Additionally, shareholders, co-workers and third  parties may contact the Board with any inquiry or issue using the methods described on our website. The Board""
""partners.  2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  29 POLITICAL ACTIVITY To meet Michigan’s energy needs and help the state’s communities thrive, we are committed to providing safe, reliable,  clean, and competitively priced energy. Our advocacy activities are directed toward fulfilling that promise, without regard to  the personal political affiliations or views of any individual at any level across the organization. In engaging in the political  process, the company is committed to upholding""
""conversations with government and elected officials, regulators, community members,  business leaders and environmental groups. This collaboration informs, educates, and builds trust and partnerships to reach  mutually beneficial solutions. We comply with all federal, state, and local lobby registration and disclosure laws to provide  transparency in our lobbying expenditures. We hold memberships in industry, trade, and business associations focused on representing the energy and utility""
""industry,  the business community, our customers, and our communities. These relationships provide perspective and views on  public policy issues that affect our corporation and help us benchmark and develop best practices among peer utilities and  FORTUNE 500 companies. Areas of interest include reliability, emergency response, clean energy technology integration,  human resources, diversity, equity and inclusion, environmental matters, employee and public safety measures, and cyber  and""
""and CMS Energy Corporation Employees for a Better Government. Standards for Employees  We’re committed to helping communities succeed — not just in energy, but also personal and corporate  commitments. Each day, co-workers offer their time, talents and dollars to support the places where they live   and work. We encourage our co-workers to participate in a wide range of civic activities, including the political process.  Employees must comply with all applicable legal, ethical and company""
""also excuse themselves from actions or decisions on issues that could impact the company.  2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  31 ADDITIONAL REPORTS & DATA We provide extensive public reporting in disclosures about sustainability, including our environmental stewardship  and long-term strategy. We address these matters in Securities and Exchange Commission, Environmental  Protection Agency and other regulatory agency filings, and through voluntary reporting efforts found on our   CMS Energy""
""Sustainability Website such as our 2022 Climate Change Risk Vulnerability and Resiliency Report,  Climate Disclosure Project (CDP) Report, and our annual Waste Report. DISCLOSURE  This report contains “forward-looking statements” which may cause our results to differ materially. All forward- looking statements should be considered in the context of the risk and other factors detailed in our Securities and  Exchange Commission (SEC) filings. Forward-looking statements should be read in""
""standards of materiality that are different than standards applied to other  investors or required to be disclosed in SEC filings.  For questions about this report, please contact our Sustainability Team.  2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  32 APPENDICES Global Reporting   Initiative (GRI) Index  GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) is the independent,  international organization that helps businesses  and other organizations take responsibility for their  impacts, by providing them with the""
""global common  language to communicate those impacts.  + GRI Index Task Force on Climate-Related  Financial Disclosure (TCFD) Index  The Financial Stability Board Task Force on Climate- related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) has developed  a voluntary, consistent climate-related financial  risk disclosure for use by companies in providing  information to investors, lenders, insurers and other  stakeholders. The TCFD framework rests on four  main tenets: governance, strategy, risk management,  and""
""metrics and targets.  + TCFD Index Climate Disclosure   Project (CDP)  CDP is a not-for-profit charity that runs the global  disclosure system for investors, companies, cities,  states and regions to manage their environmental  impacts.  + CDP Report  Sustainability Accounting  Standards Board (SASB) Index   for Consumers Energy —   Electric Utilities & Power  Generation  Our Sustainability Accounting Standards Board  (SASB) Index identifies where the corporation makes  disclosures and provides""
""information in the Electric  Utilities and Power Generation industry section  within the infrastructure sector.  + SASB Electric Index Sustainability Accounting  Standards Board (SASB) Index   for Consumers Energy —   Gas Utilities & Distributors  Our Sustainability Accounting Standards Board  (SASB) Index identifies where the corporation makes  disclosures and provides information in the Gas  Utilities and Distributors industry section within the  infrastructure sector.  + SASB Natural Gas""
""Index Waste and Landfill   Avoidance Report  Our Waste and Landfill Avoidance Report discloses  our efforts to reduce, reuse and recycle and our  progress on these efforts.  + Read the Report Sustainability Priority   Issues Report  The report shows our issue prioritization process  and its outcomes, including how the issues are  managed.  + Read the Report Biodiversity Report  This report discloses our goals and performance and  highlights our efforts to promote biodiversity.  + Read the Report""
""2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  33 BY THE NUMBERS  2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  34       Baseline CONSUMERS ENERGY PORTFOLIO 1  2005  2021  2022  2023  TREND Owned Nameplate Generation Capacity at end of year (MW) Coal 2    3,015  2,043  2,043  1,499  ■ Natural Gas 3  1,285  2,318  2,341  3,630  ■ Nuclear   812  N/A  N/A  N/A  ■ Petroleum 4  738  701  682  682  ■ Ludington Pumped Hydro Storage Plant 5  1,009  1,154  1,183  1,183  ■ Total Renewable Energy Resources  132  768""
""787  986  ■   Biomass/Biogas  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  ■   Geothermal  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  ■   Hydroelectric 6  132  132  132  132  ■   Solar  N/A  4  5  5  ■   Wind 7  N/A  632  648  849  ■   Other   N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  ■ Total Owned Nameplate Generation Capacity   6,991  6,985  7,034  7,980  ■ Owned Net Generation for the data year (MWh)  Coal 2    19,711,000  10,860,781  10,217,338   6,883,825   ■ Natural Gas 3  356,000  5,554,766   6,683,783   11,220,692   ■ Nuclear   6,636,000  N/A  N/A  N/A  ■""
""Petroleum  225,000  7,000  4,543   2,333   ■ Ludington Pumped Storage Plant 5  -516,000  -321,188  -370,231  -348,668  ■ Total Renewable Energy Resources  387,000  1,974,966  2,216,316  1,992,608  ■   Biomass/Biogas  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  ■   Geothermal  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  ■   Hydroelectric  387,000  397,904  380,970  375,621  ■   Solar  N/A  6,529  6,523  6,734  ■   Wind  N/A  1,570,533  1,828,823  1,610,253  ■ Other    N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  ■ Total Owned Net Generation (MWh) 8  26,799,000""
""18,076,325  18,751,749  19,750,789  ■ Purchased Net Generation for the data year (MWh) 9  Coal     482,000  493,545  500,466   318,385   ■ Natural Gas  7,061,000  5,861,482  7,181,936   7,244,012   ■ Nuclear   N/A  6,901,159  2,692,301   0   ■ Petroleum  N/A  N/A   N/A    N/A   ■ Total Renewable Energy Resources  1,236,000  2,408,619  2,440,475  2,584,663  ■   Biomass/Biogas  1,200,000  1,221,550  1,163,171  1,028,949  ■   Geothermal  N/A  N/A  0  0  ■   Hydroelectric  34,000  36,128  33,425""
""32,226  ■   Solar  N/A  140,495  227,416  553,884  ■   Wind  2,600  1,010,446  1,016,448  969,604  ■ Power Markets and Other  1,991,000  645,010  3,943,481  4,532,014  ■ Total Purchased Net Generation (MWh) 8  10,770,000  16,309,815  16,758,658  14,679,074  ■ Investing in the Future:   Capital Expenditures, Energy Efﬁ ciency (EE), and Smart Meters Total Annual Capital Expenditures (nominal dollars)  $593,000,000    $2,327,500,000    $2,467,600,000    $3,289,000,000   ■ Incremental Annual""
""Electricity Savings from EE Measures (MWh)  N/A  715,458  651,661  659,487  ■ Incremental Annual Investment in Electric EE Programs (nominal dollars)  N/A  $161,737,103  $188,983,904  $189,951,805  ■ Percent of Total Electric Customers with Smart Meters (at end of year)  N/A  99%  99%  99%  ■ Retail Electric Customer Count (at end of year) Commercial   214,025  223,790  224,645  225,756  ■ Industrial   8,595  1,339  1,304  1,238  ■ Residential  1,565,601  1,642,642  1,645,580  1,652,141  ■ TREND""
""KEY:   ■ Not Rated   ■ No Change   ■ Better   ■ Worse Parent Company: CMS Energy Corporation Operating Company(s): Consumers Energy Company Business Type(s): Vertically Integrated State(s) of Operation: Michigan State(s) with RPS Programs: Michigan Regulatory Environment: Regulated Report Date: November 1, 2024 CMS Energy Website: cmsenergy.com Consumers Energy Website: ConsumersEnergy.com The following quantitative information is Consumers Energy data only.    2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY""
""REPORT |  35      Baseline CONSUMERS ENERGY EMISSIONS1  2005  2021  2022  2023  TREND GHG Emissions: Carbon Dioxide (CO2) and Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e) Owned Generation   Carbon Dioxide (CO2)     Total Owned Generation CO2 Emissions (MT)  20,219,000  13,766,518  13,663,229   11,939,983   ■     Total Owned Generation CO2 Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)   0.754  0.762  0.729  0.605  ■   Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e)     Total Owned Generation CO2e Emissions (MT)  N/A  13,829,815""
""13,722,001  11,981,941  ■     Total Owned Generation CO2e Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)   N/A  0.765  0.732  0.607  ■   Biogenic Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Emissions (MT)  0  0  0  0  ■ Purchased Power 9, 10   Carbon Dioxide (CO2)     Total Purchased Generation CO2 Emissions (MT)  4,999,000  3,483,770  5,920,533  6,165,741  ■     Total Purchased Generation CO2 Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)   0.464  0.214  0.353  0.420  ■   Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e)      Total Purchased Generation CO2e""
""Emissions (MT)  N/A  4,643,692  5,952,823  6,208,851  ■     Total Purchased Generation CO2e Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)   N/A  0.285  0.355  0.423  ■   Biogenic Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Emissions (MT)  N/A  786,317  1,637,299  1,258,589  ■ Owned Generation + Purchased Power    Carbon Dioxide (CO2)     Total Owned + Purchased Generation CO2 Emissions (MT)  25,218,000  17,250,288  19,583,761  18,105,723  ■     Total Owned + Purchased Generation CO2 Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)   0.671  0.502""
""0.551  0.526  ■     Total Owned + Purchased Generation CO2 Emissions Intensity (lbs/Net MWh)   1,480  1,106  1,216  1,159  ■   Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e)     Total Owned + Purchased Generation CO2e Emissions (MT)  N/A  18,473,507  19,674,824  18,190,792  ■     Total Owned + Purchased Generation CO2e Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)   N/A  0.537  0.554  0.528  ■     Total Owned + Purchased Generation CO2e Emissions Intensity (lbs/Net MWh)   N/A  1,184  1,221  1,165  ■ Non-Generation CO2e""
""Emissions   Fugitive CO2e emissions of sulfur hexaﬂ uoride (MT)  N/A  2,049  1,965  7,744  ■   Leak rate of CO2e emissions of sulfur hexaﬂ uoride (MT/Net MWh) 10  N/A  5.96E-05  5.53E-05  2.25E-04  ■ Electric & Gas Scope 1, 2 and 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 11   Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e)      Scope 1 CO2e emissions (MT) 12  N/A  14,292,256  14,307,906  12,482,384  ■     Scope 2 CO2e market-based emissions (MT) 13  N/A  62,753  61,195  52,960  ■     Scope 2 CO2e location-based emissions""
""(MT) 14  N/A  59,802  63,102  53,601  ■     Scope 3 CO2e emissions (MT) 15  N/A  16,881,600  23,832,385  22,652,002  ■ Nitrogen Oxide (NOx), Sulfur Dioxide (SO2), Mercury (Hg) Generation basis for calculation: Electric Generation  Nitrogen Oxide (NOx)   Total NOx Emissions (MT)  28,400  5,083  4,617   3,388   ■   Total NOx Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)  1.06E-03  2.81E-04  2.46E-04  1.72E-04  ■ Sulfur Dioxide (SO2)   Total SO2 Emissions (MT)  83,600  6,676  5,914  3,999  ■   Total SO2""
""Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)  3.12E-03  3.69E-04  3.15E-04  2.02E-04  ■ Mercury (Hg)   Total Hg Emissions (kg)  N/A  41.4  40.4  25.7  ■   Total Hg Emissions Intensity (kg/Net MWh)  N/A  2.29E-06  2.15E-06  1.30E-06  ■ Other Emissions Metrics   Particulate Matter (PM-10) (MT)  N/A  968  896  464  ■   Lead (MT)  N/A  0.022  0.019  0.011  ■   Total Non-Methane Organic Compounds (MT)  299  201  202  139  ■   Utility Speciﬁ c Residual Mix Emission Rate (CO2 lbs/MWh) 16  N/A  1,205  1,298  1,239""
""■   Utility Speciﬁ c Residual Mix Emission Rate (CO2e lbs/MWh) 17  N/A  1,211  1,304  1,244  ■ TREND KEY:   ■ Not Rated   ■ No Change   ■ Better   ■ Worse  2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  36       Baseline CONSUMERS ENERGY RESOURCES  2005  2021  2022  2023  TREND Human Resources   Total Number of Employees  8,114  8,927  8,879  8,356  ■   Total Number on Board of Directors/Trustees  12  11  11  11  ■     Total Women on Board of Directors/Trustees  1  4  4  4  ■     Total Minorities on""
""1.17  1.48  ■   Lost-time Case Rate   2.00  0.74  0.68  0.72  ■   Days Away, Restricted, and Transfer (DART) Rate  3.22  1.10  0.93  1.08  ■   Work-related Fatalities  1.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  ■ Fresh Water Resources   Water Withdrawals - Consumptive (Billions of Liters/Net MWh)  N/A  3.50E-07  3.39E-07  2.69E-07  ■   Water Withdrawals - Non-Consumptive (Billions of Liters/Net MWh)  N/A  7.90E-05  7.12E-05  4.91E-05  ■   Water Withdrawals - Consumptive (Billions of Liters)  N/A  5.74E+00""
""6.37E+00  5.31E+00  ■   Water Withdrawals - Non-Consumptive (Billions of Liters))  N/A  1.30E+03  1.33E+03  9.69E+02  ■ Waste Products   Amount of Hazardous Waste Manifested for Disposal (tons) 18  N/A  34  20  65  ■   Percent of Coal Combustion Products Beneﬁ cially Used  N/A  8%  8%  8%  ■ Biodiversity    Total acres enhanced or protected  N/A  N/A  1,141  2,435  ■   Total acres where pollinator seed mixes applied  N/A  N/A  0.08  1,419  ■   Approximate Acres of conservation activities under""
""Monarch CCAA program 19  N/A  N/A  31,000  24,130  ■ TREND KEY:   ■ Not Rated   ■ No Change   ■ Better   ■ Worse  2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  37 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION  2020  2021  2022  2023  TREND  Methane Emissions And Mitigation from Distribution Mains Number of Gas Distribution Customers    1,805,558  1,815,103  1,820,129  ■ Distribution Mains in Service    Plastic (miles)    15,199  15,486  15,709  ■   Cathodically Protected Steel - Bare & Coated (miles)    12,297  12,188""
""12,105  ■   Unprotected Steel - Bare & Coated (miles)    380  343  329  ■   Cast Iron / Wrought Iron - without upgrades (miles)    293  261  225  ■ Plan/Commitment to Replace / Upgrade Remaining Miles of Distribution Mains (# years to complete)   Unprotected Steel (Bare & Coated) (# years to complete)    8  13  12  ■   Cast Iron / Wrought Iron (# years to complete)    8  13  12  ■ Distribution CO2e Fugitive Emissions  CO2e Fugitive Methane Emissions from Gas Distribution Operations (MT)""
""213,366  206,916  198,760  ■ CH4 Fugitive Methane Emissions from Gas Distribution Operations (MT)    8,535  8,277  7,950  ■ CH4 Fugitive Methane Emissions from Gas Distribution Operations (MMSCF/year)    445  431  414  ■ Annual Natural Gas Throughput from Gas Distribution Operations    in thousands of standard cubic feet (Mscf/year)    344,630,243  384,527,157  372,184,083  ■ Annual Methane Gas Throughput from Gas Distribution Operations    in millions of standard cubic feet (MMscf/year)""
""327,399  365,301  353,575  ■ Fugitive Methane Emissions Rate (MMscf of Methane Emissions    per MMscf of Methane Throughput)    0.136%  0.118%  0.117%  ■ NATURAL GAS COMPRESSION,  TRANSMISSION AND STORAGE Natural Gas Compression Methane Emissions Data for all 7 compressor stations, regardless of reporting threshold Pneumatic Device Venting (MT/year)    19  19  19  ■ Blowdown Vent Stacks (MT/year) 1    365  553  283  ■ Transmission Storage Tanks (MT/year)    3  0  6  ■ Flare Stack Emissions""
""(MT/year)    0  0  0  ■ Centrifugal Compressor Venting (MT/year)    54  54  51  ■ Reciprocating Compressor Venting (MT/year)    544  213  341  ■ Equipment leaks from valves, connectors, open ended lines, pressure relief valves,    and meters (MT/year) 2    195  240  337  ■ Other Leaks (MT/year)    0  0  0  ■ Total Compression Methane Emissions (MT/year)    1,161  1,061  1,036  ■ Total Compression Methane Emissions (MT CO2e/year)    29,027  26,514  25,908  ■ Total Compression Methane Emissions""
""(MSCF/year)    60,472  55,237  53,976  ■   TREND KEY:   ■ Not Rated   ■ No Change   ■ Better   ■ Worse Parent Company: CMS Energy Operating Company(s): Consumers Energy Company Business Type(s): Vertically Integrated State(s) of Operation: Michigan Regulatory Environment: Regulated Report Date: November 1, 2024 Natural Gas Business Sustainability Metrics  2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  38   2020  2020  2021  2022  2023  TREND Underground Natural Gas Storage Methane Emissions Data for""
""all 15 storage ﬁ elds, regardless of reporting threshold Pneumatic Device Venting (MT/year)    N/A  N/A  N/A  ■ Flare Stack Emissions (MT/year)    N/A  N/A  N/A  ■ Centrifugal Compressor Venting (MT/year)    N/A  N/A  N/A  ■ Reciprocating Compressor Venting (MT/year)    N/A  N/A  N/A  ■ Equipment leaks from valves, connectors, open ended lines,    pressure relief valves, and meters (MT/year)    N/A  N/A  N/A  ■ Other Equipment Leaks (MT/year)    N/A  N/A  N/A  ■ Equipment leaks from valves,""
""connectors, open-ended lines, and    pressure relief valves associated with storage wellheads (MT/year)    71  68  64  ■ Other equipment leaks from components associated with storage wellheads (MT/year)    N/A  N/A  N/A  ■ Total Storage Compression Methane Emissions (MT/year)    71  68  64  ■ Total Storage Compression Methane Emissions (MT CO2e/year)    1,771  1,705  1,607  ■ Total Storage Compression Methane Emissions (MSCF/year)    3,689  3,553  3,348  ■ Natural Gas Transmission Pipeline""
""Blowdowns Transmission Pipeline Blowdown Vent Stacks (MT/year) 3    474  5,571  488  ■ Transmission Pipeline Blowdown Vent Stacks (MT CO2e/year)    11,861  139,274  12,202  ■ Transmission Pipeline Blowdown Vent Stacks (MSCF/year) 3    24,710  290,154  25,421  ■ Other Non-Subpart W Emissions Total Methane Emissions from additional sources  not recognized by 40 CFR 98 Subpart W (MT/year)    364  401  385  ■ Total Methane Emissions from additional sources  not recognized by 40 CFR 98 Subpart W (MT""
""CO2e/year)    9,088  10,023  9,636  ■ Total Methane Emissions from additional sources  not recognized by 40 CFR 98 Subpart W (MSCF/year)    18,932  20,880  20,075  ■ Total CO2 Emissions (MT)    81,925  87,732  84,000  ■ Total NOx Emissions (MT)    869  732  805  ■ Total VOC Emissions (MT)    59  59  66  ■ Transmission and Storage Summary Total Transmission and Storage Methane Emissions (MMSCF/year) 3    108  370  103  ■ Annual Natural Gas Throughput from Gas Transmission and Storage Operations""
""(MSCF/year)    372,220,130  432,614,790  458,586,044  ■ Annual Methane Gas Throughput from Gas Transmission and Storage Operations (MMSCF/year)    353,609  410,984  435,657  ■ Fugitive Methane Emissions Rate (MMscf of Methane Emissions per MMscf of Methane Throughput)    0.03%  0.09%  0.02%  ■ TREND KEY:   ■ Not Rated   ■ No Change   ■ Better   ■ Worse  2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  39       Baseline  NORTHSTAR CLEAN ENERGY PORTFOLIO1  2005  2021  2022  2023  TREND Owned Nameplate""
""Generation Capacity at end of year (MW) Coal     N/A  35  35  36  ■ Natural Gas  N/A  994  995  980  ■ Nuclear   N/A  0  0  0  ■ Petroleum  N/A  0  0  0  ■ Total Renewable Energy Resources  N/A  468  467  642  ■   Biomass/Biogas  N/A  64  64  64  ■   Geothermal  N/A  0  0  0  ■   Hydroelectric  N/A  0  0  0  ■   Solar  N/A  27  27  210  ■   Wind  N/A  377  377  368  ■ Other    N/A  0  0  0  ■ Total Owned Nameplate Generation Capacity   N/A  1,496  1,497  1,658  ■ Owned Net Generation for the""
""data year (MWh)  Coal     N/A  244,500  249,000  159,000  ■ Natural Gas  N/A  4,132,000  4,911,000  5,377,000  ■ Nuclear   N/A  0  0  0  ■ Petroleum  N/A  0  0  0  ■ Total Renewable Energy Resources  N/A  1,544,930  1,666,440  1,593,740  ■   Biomass/Biogas  N/A  319,500  336,500  278,500  ■   Geothermal  N/A  0  0  0  ■   Hydroelectric  N/A  0  0  0  ■   Solar  N/A  51,000  47,000  106,000  ■   Wind  N/A  1,174,430  1,282,940  1,209,240  ■ Other    N/A  0  0  0  ■ Total Owned Net Generation""
""(MWh)  N/A  5,921,430  6,826,440  7,129,740  ■ Purchased Net Generation for the data year (MWh)  Coal     N/A  0  0  0  ■ Natural Gas  N/A  0  0  0  ■ Nuclear   N/A  0  0  0  ■ Petroleum  N/A  0  0  0  ■ Total Renewable Energy Resources  N/A  0  0  0  ■   Biomass/Biogas  N/A  0  0  0  ■   Geothermal  N/A  0  0  0  ■   Hydroelectric  N/A  0  0  0  ■   Solar  N/A  0  0  0  ■   Wind  N/A  0  0  0  ■ Power Markets and Other  N/A  0  0  0  ■ Total Purchased Net Generation (MWh)  N/A  0  0  0  ■""
""Investing in the Future: Capital Expenditures, Energy Efﬁ ciency (EE), and Smart Meters   Total Annual Capital Expenditures (nominal dollars)  N/A    N/A    N/A    N/A    Incremental Annual Electricity Savings from EE Measures (MWh)  N/A  N/A   N/A    N/A    Incremental Annual Investment in Electric EE Programs (nominal dollars)   N/A    N/A    N/A    N/A    Percent of Total Electric Customers with Smart Meters (at end of year)  N/A  N/A   N/A    N/A  Retail Electric Customer Count (at end of""
""year) Commercial   N/A  N/A   N/A    N/A  Industrial   N/A  N/A   N/A    N/A  Residential  N/A  N/A   N/A    N/A  TREND KEY:   ■ Not Rated   ■ No Change   ■ Better   ■ Worse Parent Company: CMS Energy Corporation Operating Company: NorthStar Clean Energy  Business Type: Vertically Integrated States of Operation:  Arkansas, Ohio, Michigan,  North Carolina, Texas, Wisconsin Regulatory Environment: Unregulated Report Date: November 1, 2024 CMS Energy Website: CMSEnergy.com NorthStar Clean Energy""
""Website:  NorthStarCleanEnergy.com The following quantitative information is NorthStar Clean Energy data only.    2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  40 NORTHSTAR CLEAN ENERGY EMISSIONS  2005  2021  2022  2023  TREND GHG Emissions: Carbon Dioxide (CO2) and Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e) Owned Generation   Carbon Dioxide (CO2)      Total Owned Generation CO2 Emissions (MT)  N/A  3,252,434  3,351,119  3,588,648  ■     Total Owned Generation CO2 Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)   N/A  0.55""
""0.49  0.50  ■   Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e)      Total Owned Generation CO2e Emissions (MT)  N/A  3,263,521  3,363,287  3,599,237  ■     Total Owned Generation CO2e Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)   N/A  0.55  0.49  0.50  ■   Biogenic Carbon Dioxide (CO2) (MT)    508,001  546,844  463,671  ■ Purchased Power    Carbon Dioxide (CO2)      Total Purchased Generation CO2 Emissions (MT)  0  0  0   N/A   ■     Total Purchased Generation CO2 Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)    N/A    N/A    N/A""
""N/A   ■   Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e)      Total Purchased Generation CO2e Emissions (MT)  0  0  0   N/A   ■     Total Purchased Generation CO2e Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)    N/A    N/A    N/A    N/A   ■   Biogenic Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Emissions (MT)  0  0  0   N/A   ■ Owned Generation + Purchased Power   Carbon Dioxide (CO2)      Total Owned + Purchased Generation CO2 Emissions (MT)  N/A  3,252,434  3,351,119  3,588,648  ■     Total Owned + Purchased Generation CO2 Emissions""
""Intensity (MT/Net MWh)   N/A  0.55  0.49  0.50  ■     Total Owned + Purchased Generation CO2 Emissions Intensity (lbs/Net MWh)   N/A  0.61  0.54  0.55  ■   Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e)      Total Owned + Purchased Generation CO2e Emissions (MT)  N/A  3,263,521  3,363,287  3,599,237  ■     Total Owned + Purchased Generation CO2e Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)   N/A  0.55  0.49  0.50  ■     Total Owned + Purchased Generation CO2e Emissions Intensity (lbs/Net MWh)   N/A  0.61  0.54  0.56  ■""
""Total Owned + Purchased Generation Biogenic Carbon Dioxide (CO2) (MT/Net MWh)  N/A  508,001  546,844  463,671  ■ Non-Generation CO2e Emissions    Fugitive CO2e emissions of sulfur hexaﬂ uoride (MT)   N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  ■   Leak rate of CO2e emissions of sulfur hexaﬂ uoride (MT/Net MWh)  N/A  N/A  N/A  N/A  ■ Electric & Gas Scope 1, 2 and 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (CO2e) 2   Scope 1 CO2e emissions (MT)  N/A   3,265,919    3,366,919   3,601,445  ■   Scope 2 CO2e market-based emissions (MT) 3""
""N/A   2,323    2,181   1,835  ■   Scope 2 CO2e location-based emissions (MT) 3  N/A   2,323    2,181   1,782  ■   Scope 3 CO2e emissions (MT) 4  N/A   1,078    1,522   43,078  ■ Nitrogen Oxide (NOx), Sulfur Dioxide (SO2), Mercury (Hg) 5 Generation basis for calculation: Electric Generation  Nitrogen Oxide (NOx)   Total NOx Emissions (MT)  N/A  1,381  1,476  1,341  ■   Total NOx Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)  N/A  2.33E-04  2.16E-04  1.88E-04  ■ Sulfur Dioxide (SO2)   Total SO2 Emissions (MT)""
""N/A  1,007  959  1,352  ■   Total SO2 Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)  N/A  1.70E-04  1.40E-04  1.90E-04  ■ Mercury (Hg)   Total Hg Emissions (kg)  N/A  5.1  4.5  6.3  ■   Total Hg Emissions Intensity (kg/Net MWh)  N/A  8.66E-07  6.52E-07  8.77E-07  ■ Other Emissions Metrics 5    Particulate Matter (PM-10) (MT)  NA  160  153  175  ■   Lead (MT)  NA  0.019  0.020  0.017  ■   Total Non-Methane Organic Compounds (MT)  NA  27  26  30  ■ TREND KEY:   ■ Not Rated   ■ No Change   ■ Better   ■ Worse""
""0  0  ■ Fresh Water Resources Water Withdrawals - Consumptive (Billions of Liters/Net MWh)  N/A  3.32E-07  2.01E-07  1.46E-07  ■ Water Withdrawals - Non-Consumptive (Billions of Liters/Net MWh)  N/A  4.26E-07  3.80E-05  4.00E-05  ■ Water Withdrawals - Consumptive (Billions of Liters)   N/A  1.97E+00  1.38E+00   1.04E+00   ■ Water Withdrawals - Non-Consumptive (Billions of Liters))   N/A  2.07E+02  2.60E+02  2.85E+02  ■ Waste Products Amount of Hazardous Waste Manifested for Disposal (tons)  N/A""
""0  0  0  ■ Percent of Coal Combustion Products Beneﬁ cially Used  N/A  0  0  0  ■ TREND KEY:   ■ Not Rated   ■ No Change   ■ Better   ■ Worse  2024 CMS ENERGY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT |  42 ENDNOTES Consumers Energy Electric Generation Metrics   1. Data reported based on equity-ownership.   2. Change in capacity refl ects retirement of Karn 1 and 2 in 2023.    3. In 2022, we revised the capacity data fuel apportionment for two co-fi red natural gas and oil-fi red EGUs to align with generation""
""planning data. In 2023,  the change in capacity refl ects the purchase of Covert Generating Station.    4. In 2022, we revised the capacity data fuel apportionment for two co-fi red natural gas and oil-fi red EGUs to align with generation planning data.   5. In 2021 and 2022, nameplate capacity changes were due to multi-year turbine upgrade projects. Th e pumped-storage facility consumes electricity to  pump water during off -peak hours for storage to generate electricity later during peak-""
""demand hours.   6. In 2023, corrected capacity data for 2022 to align with reported generation data; there was no change in capacity for this category.    7. Change in capacity refl ects commencement of operation date for Heartland Wind Farm.   8. Th e Midcontinent Independent System Operator (MISO) determines when a plant operates as a general matter.   9. Consumers Energy purchases power from three NorthStar Clean Energy generation facilities and therefore net generation, CO2 and CO2e""
""emissions  are reported by Consumers Energy as purchased generation; this data is also included in NorthStar’s owned generation metrics in the following table.  10. In 2021, Consumers had a Power Purchase agreement for nearly 7 million MWh of carbon-free emissions from a nuclear facility.  Palisades Nuclear  Plant closed in May 2022 and generation was replaced by natural gas and MISO market purchases thereby increasing our purchased power emissions  and intensity in 2022. 2023 emissions""
""decreased from coal purchased power but increased due to MISO market purchases, with emissions intensity  showing an increase due to less total purchased power in 2023 than previous years.  11. Th e SF6 leak rate of CO2e emissions is calculated based on total generation (owned plus purchased power).  12. Biogenic CO2 emissions are not included in the reported Scope 1, 2 or 3 emissions. Th e IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4) GWPs are used for  emission calculations, with the exception of some""
""Scope 3 categories which rely on EPA provided emission factors which were updated to AR5 this year.   13. GHG emissions associated with non-material or de minimis sources are not quantifi ed due to lack of reliable activity data. Line loss emissions  associated with Consumers Energy’s distribution system are considered included in Scope 1 with net generation.  14. Scope 2 market-based reporting refl ects a hybrid approach using utility-specifi c residual mix emission rates when available, U.S.""
""Green-e® Residual Mix  Emissions Rates, or eGRID emission rates (by eGRID Subregion) when other data is unavailable.  In 2023, line losses associated with our retail open  access program were included in Scope 2 emissions and historic years’ emissions were revised for consistency.   15. Scope 2 location-based emissions utilize eGRID subregion (RFCM) output emission rates. In 2023, line losses associated with our retail open access  program were included in Scope 2 emissions and historic years’""
""emissions were revised for consistency.   16. For 2021, fi ve Scope 3 categories were reported, rounded by two-signifi cant fi gures to account for uncertainty in data and calculations; this data has  not been revised. In 2022, Consumers Energy undertook a review of Scope 3 categories for more comprehensive emission reporting. For 2022 and  2023, GHG emissions are reported for the following nine categories: Category 1 - Purchased Goods and Services; Category 2 - Capital Goods; Category  3 -""
""Fuel-and-Energy Related Activities; Category 5 - Waste Generated in Operations; Category 6 - Business Travel; Category 7 - Employee Commuting;  Category 8 - Upstream Leased Assets; Category 9 - Downstream Transportation and Distribution; Category 11 - Use of Sold Products. Th e 2022 Scope  3 total was revised for consistency to refl ect a decrease in emissions based on clarifi ed Category 1 purchased natural gas boundary identifi cation.    17. Th e 2021 and 2022 utility-specifi c residual mix""
""emission rates were revised for consistency based on updated industry reporting instructions issued in  April 2024.  18. Increase in hazardous waste due to Karn 1 & 2 decommissioning and pipeline pigging that was deferred from 2022 to 2023.  19. Levels of conservation activity vary naturally by year based on work needs. Natural Gas Business Sustainability Metrics   1. Increase in 2022 attributed to relief valve issues at Ray in January 2022 and fi regate activations at Overisel in August and""
""December 2022.   2. Increase in 2022 and 2023 due to an increase in both compressor and non-compressor component leaks identifi ed during annual GHGRR FME surveys  at compressor stations.   3. Consumers Energy experienced a gas transmission line rupture in March 2022 that released approximately 283,400 MCF of natural gas, which equates  to 5,169 MT methane (that is, 129,230 MT CO2e). If this rupture data is excluded, the emissions for this line in metric tons per year are about 402 MT  methane,""
""which is equivalent to 10,044 MT CO2e, and is less than the prior year. NorthStar Clean Energy   1. Data reported based on equity-ownership.   2. Biogenic CO2 emissions are not included in the reported Scope 1, 2 or 3 emissions.  Th e IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4) GWPs are used for  emission calculations, with the exception of some Scope 3 categories which rely on EPA provided emission factors which were updated to AR5 this year.    3. Scope 2 market-based reporting refl ects a hybrid""
""approach using utility-specifi c residual mix emission rates when available, U.S. Green-e® Residual Mix  Emissions Rates, or eGRID emission rates (by eGRID Subregion) when other data is unavailable. Scope 2 location-based emissions were added to our  report template in 2022 and utilizes eGRID subregion output emission rates.    4. For 2023, NorthStar reports known emissions associated with the following Scope 3 categories, however not all categories have been assessed for  relevancy or data""
""availability: Category 3 - Fuel and Energy Related Activities; Category 5 - Waste Generated in Operations; Category 6 - Business  Travel; Category 7-Employee Commuting.  Categories 3, 6, and 7 are reported for the fi rst time in the 2023 emission year.   5. Air emissions reported pursuant to federally required annual air emission reporting systems.""
