""2024 Sustainability Report A Better  Circle  CEO letter                                  4 Dedication to methanolysis            7 Innovation                                    8 Sustainability CoE                            11 Regional perspective                         12 REPORT SUMMARY Table of contents At Eastman, sustainability is at the heart of our corporate strategy.   This report is comprehensive in nature, and we invite you to dive in directly to the topics that interest you. Carbon""
""neutrality                            54 Water and biodiversity                       64 About the report                             98 GRI                                                  102 Sustainability governance           16 Materiality assessment                       18 Stakeholder engagement               20 Working to create   A Better Circle                                  21 Zero-incident mindset                        69 Inclusive culture                            76 Eastman""
""Resource Groups              82 Social impact                                        85 Partnerships                                         30 Feedstocks                                   35 Next on the horizon                  37 Carbon renewal technology            43 Innovation and collaborating  for a circular economy                         49 Strategy 3 15 22 53 68 93 Governance Mainstreaming  circularity              Mitigating   climate change Caring for   society Goals and  progress |""
""| | | | | 2 Strategy Governance Circularity Climate Progress Summary Society  Who is Eastman? Additives & Functional Products Chemical Intermediates Advanced Materials Fibers  Business segments  Kingsport, Tennessee, USA Global headquarters North America  |  $3.9 billion Asia Pacific  |  $2.2 billion Europe, Middle East, Africa  |  $2.6 billion Latin America  |  $0.5 billion By region 2023 sales revenue Awards, recognition  and memberships revenue in 2023 $9.2 billion global team members 14,000""
""of innovation 100+ years where customers are served 100+ countries 8% Consumables 7% Food, feed and agriculture 10% Durables and electronics 12% Filter media 11% Building and construction Transportation 18% 10% Other markets 6% Medical and pharma 6% Personal care and wellness 7% Industrial chemicals 5% Water treatment and energy Click here to view a full listing   of awards and recognitions. | | | | | | 3 Strategy Governance Circularity Climate Progress Summary Society  Mark Costa, Board Chair""
""and Chief Executive Officer Accelerating our progress to build A Better Circle   This year marks a major inflection point in our  strategy to build A Better Circle, so I’m excited to  share Eastman’s progress in our 2024 sustainability  report. This publication offers results and key  highlights that reaffirm our commitment to the  principles of the United Nations Global Compact.   By beginning operation of one of the world’s  largest material-to-material molecular recycling  facilities in""
""March, the Eastman team delivered  a significant proof point of our vision to deliver  a recycling system for the modern age.  Through innovation and investment, we are leading  toward a better future — one where we give plastic  products infinite value, rather than considering them  waste for landfill or incineration when we’re finished  using them. Our Kingsport, Tennessee, site has the  capacity to process 250 million pounds (110,000 MT)  of hard-to-recycle plastic waste each year, putting us""
""on a trajectory to achieve our 2025 recycling goal.  We also announced the location of our next recycling  facility. In Longview, Texas, we will build a plant that  doubles our recycling capacity. Our technologies deliver  material building blocks with reduced greenhouse gas  emissions compared to heritage processes.   In Texas, we will use solar energy and next-generation  technology to produce Eastman Renew materials with  up to 90% reduced carbon emissions, including avoided  emissions,""
""compared to fossil virgin production. At our Longview facility, we will incorporate new  zero-carbon energy technology in the form of  thermal batteries with solar to illustrate out-of- the-box thinking to decarbonize industry. The U.S.  Department of Energy’s Office of Clean Energy  Demonstrations (OCED) recognized our innovative  approach by awarding Eastman up to $375 million from  a grant program that addresses climate change. We’re committed to investing approximately $2.25  billion in""
""molecular recycling facilities around the  world with a third plant planned for France.   Leading brands are adopting Eastman Renew materials  to deliver more sustainable products; you can read about  several in this report. They include Patagonia, which  chose Naia™ Renew for sustainable outdoor clothing,  and PepsiCo, which will use Eastman Renew from our  Longview plant to produce more sustainable packaging.   Just as the plastic waste crisis demands bold action, so   does climate change.  We""
""are making progress on our climate strategy and  the goal of carbon neutrality by 2050. We are targeting  a reduction of one-third of our Scope 1 and Scope  2 greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, and we have  achieved approximately two-thirds of that 2030 goal. Our sustainable innovation portfolio extends far beyond  molecular recycling. We are delivering products such as  Aventa™ compostable materials for food service, Saflex™  advanced interlayers that enable new innovations for  electric""
""Mark Costa | | | | | | 4 Strategy Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Summary  Leading toward a future of more sustainable materials   STRATEGY Letter from Steve Crawford Eastman has a history filled with significant milestones,  but there’s no doubt we are now at one of the most  important points in our more than 100-year history — a  moment where our people and leading technologies can  make a material difference and help build a better world.       We’re making progress on our""
""journey to build A  Better Circle. We continue to execute our strategy  to decarbonize operations to help mitigate  climate change. We’re doing this through energy  efficiency, increasing the use of renewable energy  and leveraging molecular recycling technologies  that lower our greenhouse gas emissions.  Through molecular recycling, we’re illustrating how the  world can expect more from recycling to reduce waste  and preserve natural resources. We focus on these critical  impact areas and""
""drive material innovation to care for  society — to make a better, more just world for all.  An achievement that shows what's possible   Simply put, the molecular recycling facility we began also  operating at our Kingsport, Tennessee, headquarters  earlier this year is one of the most important projects  in the history of Eastman — one that is foundational  to our commitment to a circular economy.  It also provides another proof point to confirm what  I know well: Give the Eastman team a""
""challenge, and  they’ll rise to meet it. This project was incredibly  complex, but the Eastman team overcame every hurdle  and completed a facility that is the first of its kind.  When we began producing Eastman Renew materials on  specification, we celebrated the countless hours of effort  and sacrifice by many people. It would be difficult to  calculate the number of team members involved because  the effort went beyond the molecular recycling facility  itself. The magnitude of the project""
""Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Summary  Leading toward a future of more sustainable materials   STRATEGY Letter from Steve Crawford (continued) A robust portfolio   Eastman Renew materials are understandably  getting a lot of attention, but molecular  recycling is just one element of many where our  innovation portfolio is making a difference.    One hundred years after Eastman launched products  made of biobased cellulosics, we continue leveraging  this technology to advance""
""sustainability.  Eastman Aventa™ is a critical material for today’s world,  where population growth and the need for convenience  has made quick-service food a modern staple. Cellulosics  are biobased because they are made from renewable  wood pulp, so Aventa is renewable, biodegradable and  compostable — making it an ideal material for food trays  and cutlery found at the grocery store. This enables  consumers to dispose of the tray and any food waste in  the same bin for composting. SEE""
""(formerly Sealed Air) is  among the leading companies that have adopted Aventa.    We also are leveraging our other molecular recycling  technology, carbon renewal technology (CRT), to produce  Aventa Renew with certified recycled content. CRT is the  same technology that is bringing circularity to many other  markets, including ophthalmics and textiles.       Commitment to lead   If you want to be inspired, become involved in  something greater than yourself. Our team includes  people from all""
""around the globe, from different  walks of life and with an array of skill sets and  perspectives. We’re 14,000 individuals united by a  commitment to deliver better materials and improve  quality of life. We know that global challenges are  substantial, and Eastman alone can’t solve them.    But we will do our part. We will partner. We will  innovate. We will lead. We will build A Better Circle.    Steve Crawford (he/him/his), Executive Vice President, Technology,   Chief Sustainability Officer""
""and Chief Manufacturing Officer | | | | | | 6 Strategy Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Summary  This report is dedicated to   the thousands of Eastman  team members whose   commitment, sacrifice   and unwavering sense of   what is possible made our   new molecular recycling   facility a reality.  | | | | | | 7 Strategy Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Summary  Business Innovation platforms Mitigating   climate change Mainstreaming circularity Caring for   society""
""Advanced Materials Specialty plastics circular economy  solutions (Eastman Renew) Next-generation copolyester innovation Saflex™ Evoca™ for electric vehicles Window films and paint protection  Additives & Functional  Products Tetrashield™ protective resin systems Esmeri™ biodegradable micropowder for personal care Fibers Naia™ cellulosic fibers Corporate Aventa™ compostable materials STRATEGY Top growth platforms Innovation that converts   market complexity into   sustainable value""
""Sustainability macro trends drive our innovation growth  strategy, and we are committed to our growth platforms  addressing the critical impact areas of mitigating climate  change, mainstreaming circularity and caring for society.  All of those innovation platforms address at least one  of society's great challenges; some address all three. With our new product and application development  activities, we focus our investment on improving the  sustainability profile over the current incumbent""
""solution in the market. To strengthen our innovation  pipeline, we have developed a deep understanding  of how our products perform within our customers’  products and across the value chain. This not only creates  demand downstream by demonstrating the value of  our innovation but also improves our understanding  of the difference our products make in people’s  lives while having a positive impact on the planet.  | | | | | | 8 Strategy Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Summary""
""than ever.     What can you say about progress in aligning  growth R&D with sustainability macro trends? Because sustainable innovation is the future for Eastman,  we thought it important that we have a metric to keep us  accountable. By 2030, we will align all growth R&D spend  with sustainability macro trends — that’s the goal we set,  and our progress makes me confident we’ll achieve it.   This is important for our company’s growth, but it’s  bigger than that. All our stakeholders, including""
""owners,  employees and communities, will benefit from this focus.  We feel a responsibility to deliver products that meet the  needs of society and are better for the planet. Reducing  waste to build a circular economy, making products that  STRATEGY Sustainable innovation is the future of Eastman lower greenhouse gas emissions and reducing materials  of concern are important to improve today’s quality of life  and that of future generations.      Molecular recycling casts a big shadow when it""
""comes   to Eastman innovation. What about the rest of   the portfolio?   There’s no question that our circular economy platform  is the innovation headline for our company right now,  and rightfully so — we built and are operating the world's  largest molecular recycling facility for polyester materials.  But our innovation portfolio is deep and goes well beyond  circular. Our Saflex™ Evoca advanced interlayers platform  will support electric vehicles (EV) growth and can help  vehicle""
""manufacturers meet their lightweighting goals.  Glazing design for EVs can involve trade-offs in terms  of aesthetics, driver comfort and vehicle weight, but  Saflex™ Evoca enables OEMs to create more efficient  EVs without compromising on cabin comfort. Saflex™ is  also the preferred interlayer for head-up display, which  is becoming more mainstream and increases safety  by allowing drivers to keep their eyes on the road.   In October, we will launch Saflex™ LiteCarbon™  Clear, our latest PVB""
""interlayer, which will help  reduce carbon emissions in buildings while  preserving safety and aesthetics. Our interlayer  for architectural glass allows for full clarity while  aiming for a 25% reduction in CO2 emissions. While our polyester circular platform is a key pillar of  our innovation-driven growth, we are also investing in  our cellulose ester platform coupled with our carbon  renewal technology (CRT) to deliver high-performance  biomaterials that are biodegradable and compostable""
""and can be produced in part from recycled plastics.   Aventa is an exciting innovation, providing high-  performance, sustainable biopolymers to replace  traditional materials in food packaging and quick- service restaurants. It’s certified compostable and is  biodegradable. In addition, Aventa Renew combines  recycled content from CRT to deliver a material made  from sustainably sourced wood pulp and recycled  plastic waste. We expect continued growth in our  Naia™ textiles. We’re making great""
""progress on market  development and innovation programs with both Naia™  Renew and Naia™ staple fiber with market adoptions  by brands like Calvin Klein, Patagonia and Hugo Boss.    Chris Killian Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer  (he/him/his) | | | | | | 9 Strategy Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Summary  Q&A with Chris Killian The sustainability macro trends that cause  market disruption have created a tremendous  opportunity for innovation, and we’re""
""sustainable material  innovation to make a difference in the world.       | | | | | | 10 Strategy Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Summary  Sustainability fluency helps everyone understand what's possible The language spoken by Laurel Baysal’s team is vital   to Eastman’s ability to meet the world’s greatest   material needs. It’s the language of sustainability. And Baysal, our   director of sustainability, is seeing a rapid increase  in people speaking it across Eastman. “That’s""
""a critical role for our sustainability team —  being able to help improve that sustainability fluency  across the company,” Baysal said. “It isn’t surprising  to me that our global team is embracing sustainability  more than ever. Everyone understands we’re in a  position to make a real difference for the world.” STRATEGY Sustainability is more embedded in our company One of the most efficient ways to gather people  together in a global company is a virtual town hall,  and the most recent""
""sustainability town hall – held  in spring 2024 — had a 90% increase in attendance  compared to one held at the same time in 2023.  Eastman sustainability also launched a new internal  website, so the global team can access a wide spectrum  of sustainability resources and contribute ideas.  Eastman established a sustainability center of  excellence (COE) in 2021 that focuses on embedding  sustainability in business strategy. COE experts work with  businesses throughout the company to help""
""identify  challenges related to sustainability. Those challenges  include actions such as reducing waste and increasing  efficiency of water use. Baysal said the solutions  that arise are important, and so is the collaboration  that serves as a model to expand future efforts. “I’m proud of the work our team is doing to help   everyone on the global team feel that sense of   ownership in Eastman’s sustainability journey,”  Baysal said. “Embedding sustainability throughout  Eastman — being able to""
""speak sustainability  — allows anyone at Eastman to go anywhere in  the world and talk about what’s possible.” Laurel Baysal Director of Sustainability  (she/her/hers) | | | | | | 11 Strategy Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Summary  STRATEGY Global perspectives: Asia Pacific (AP) Gulferaz Ali  Vice President and Managing Director,  Asia Pacific  (he/him/his) Mainstreaming circularity   Packaging waste, including plastics, makes up  about one-third of domestic waste disposed of in""
""Singapore. It is a key priority waste steam identified in  Singapore’s Zero Waste Masterplan. Now producers  of packaged products — brand owners, manufacturers  and importers as well as retailers — must submit  packaging data and Reuse, Reduce, Recycle (3R)  plans to the National Environment Agency (NEA).  Eastman developed its own 3R plan with key initiatives  in Singapore, including use of recycled content  in some packaging material and selling certain  products in reusable and recyclable""
""drums.  Mitigating climate change Green and low-carbon energy are accelerating in  China, which has a goal of carbon neutrality by  2060. The emergence of sustainable fashion and  consumption there can be attributed to a combination  of the government’s shift in economic policy and  growing consumer concerns for the environment.  China is a strategic growth market for Eastman’s textiles  business, and the Naia™ team in China is working closely  with value chain partners to upgrade and develop""
""future.  Eastman has a presence in several countries in the region, making AP a key component of Eastman's   business strategy to achieve sustainable growth and generate value for our customers and society. Caring for society We are collaborating on materials for a sustainable  future. Eastman is actively engaged with research  institutes, associations and value chain partners to drive  the development of the sustainable textile industry  in China. Eastman established a partnership with the""
""China National Textile and Apparel Council (CNTAC)  on a research project on materials for a sustainable  future. In addition, the Naia™ team partnered with the  Beijing Institute of Fashion Technology (BIFT) to inspire  the next generation toward sustainable fashion.  Asia Pacific is a center of  growth and plays a critical  role in the global supply chain.  All of us have a vital role in  building a sustainable future. | | | | | | 12 Strategy Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society""
""Summary  STRATEGY Global perspectives: Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) JP Kuijpers  Managing Director,  Europe, Middle East and Africa  (he/him/his) Mitigating climate change   The Eastman team in the EMEA region is making  significant progress in reducing absolute Scope 1 and 2   emissions with a decrease of more than 30% in 2023  compared to the baseline of 2017. This demonstrates  our commitment in the region to reach our climate and  energy goals and achieve climate neutrality by 2050.""
""The  increasing demand for transparency and environmental  leadership from our customers underscores the  importance of providing information on product carbon  footprints and outlining plans for reducing environmental  impacts over time. Life cycle assessment (LCA) data  plays a critical role in meeting these demands, enabling  customers to make informed choices and helping them  meet their Scope 3 reduction targets.   Mainstreaming circularity   A focus on biobased materials and materials with""
""recycled content is a significant trend driven by growing  environmental concerns. This shift towards using more  circular feedstocks aligns with the goals of circularity  and supports the transition to a more sustainable and  resource-efficient economy while reducing the overall  carbon footprint. Eastman continues to make progress  on our plans to build a new molecular recycling plant  in France to address the increasing market demand for  plastics with recycled content.  Besides the European""
""Union’s (EU) unwavering intent to become the first climate-neutral continent by 2050, it’s encouraging to see that   the Antwerp Declaration calls for an Industrial Deal that emphasizes the need to address high energy prices, establish common European   infrastructure, secure raw material supplies, foster innovation and stimulate demand for sustainable products. Coupling the EU Green Deal   with an Industrial Deal will empower industry in the EU to make the necessary investments to decarbonize""
""while boosting competitiveness.  Caring for society The EU is committed to promoting high standards  for sustainable chemicals as well as product safety,  environmental protection, and human health and safety.  Eastman believes a culture that supports and builds  diverse perspectives in the workplace and communities  in which we operate is necessary for innovation.  Eastman intends to comply with the EU Corporate  Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD), which  promotes transparency and""
""consistent and comparable  sustainability reporting in each of these areas. The Eastman team in the EMEA  region has made significant  progress in reducing absolute  Scope 1 and 2 emissions, with a  decrease of more than 30% in  2023 compared to the baseline  of 2017. This demonstrates  our commitment in the  region to reach our climate  and energy goals and achieve  climate neutrality by 2050. | | | | | | 13 Strategy Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Summary  STRATEGY Global""
""perspectives: Latin America Region (LAR) AgustÍn GarcÍa Argibay  Managing Director,  Latin America  (he/him/his) Mainstreaming circularity   Brands in our region are increasingly interested in  our products with recycled content. Examples of  local collaborations include Mexican eyewear brand  Ben & Frank using Eastman Acetate Renew for their  frames and cosmetics brands using Eastman Cristal™  Renew. By diverting hard-to-recycle plastic waste  from landfills, we not only contribute to a""
""circular  economy for plastics but also reduce greenhouse  emissions, gaining benefits from a lower carbon  footprint of products compared to traditional ones.   Mitigating climate change Recognizing the urgent need for reforestation, Eastman’s  colleagues in the region are actively collaborating with  local organizations to protect our valuable forested  areas. We understand the importance of protecting our  environment, which is why we have implemented a strict  policy for proper waste and""
""water management and  why our operators undergo training with the Operation  Clean Sweep protocol, ensuring best practices to  prevent pellet loss. We believe that creating a culture of  awareness is crucial in our commitment to protecting  the environment and fostering sustainability. As a region, Latin America generates relatively low greenhouse gas emissions but is feeling the effects of climate  change, so solutions that will mitigate climate change are of vital importance to the region’s""
""people.  The transition to a circular economy holds significant benefits for the region. The Latin America region plays a vital role in driving  positive environmental impact through sustainable and innovative solutions, improving the quality of life for our citizens and securing  a better future for generations to come. This was emphasized during the United Nations Climate Change Conference of 2023 (COP28),  where Latin America showcased its commitment to intensifying efforts against""
""biodiversity loss and forest degradation.   Caring for society We take great pride in our talented workforce in  Latin America and their commitment to society. The  contributions made by our colleagues involved in  Eastman Professional Development Community and  Eastman Resource Groups, including Mosaic and  Catalysts, are remarkable. In the wake of Hurricane Otis  that devastated Guerrero State in Mexico, the Latin  American ERGs coordinated the collection and delivery  of donations to aid""
""impacted communities and families. The transition to a circular  economy holds significant benefits  for the region, and LAR plays  a vital role in driving positive  environmental impact through  sustainable and innovative solutions,  improving the quality of life for  our citizens and securing a better  future for generations to come.  This was emphasized during the  United Nations Climate Change  Conference of 2023 (COP28),  where Latin America showcased  its commitment to intensifying""
""efforts against biodiversity loss  and forest degradation. | | | | | | 14 Strategy Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Summary  Governance Listen Materiality assessment To best understand the highest-priority sustainability and ESG  risks and opportunities that may have an impact on our company,  Eastman actively evaluates potential drivers based on significant  economic, environmental and social impact using stakeholder input.  Learn  Stakeholder inclusiveness and ESG frameworks""
""What Eastman learns from the input collected from both internal  and external stakeholders, we validate against known sustainability  and ESG frameworks such as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI),  the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), CDP, the  Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TFCD), and  the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).  Leaders across Eastman use this body of knowledge to inform  and align our sustainability framework and corporate""
""strategy. Lead Sustainability framework and ESG frameworks Eastman’s purpose is to enhance the quality of life in a  material way. For our key stakeholders, this report presents our  sustainability performance and helps ensure progress toward  our sustainability framework, A Better Circle. This framework  dictates our 2025/2030/2050 goals and commitments while  acknowledging and instituting change where we must do better. | | | | | | 15 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy""
""Summary  Enhancing the quality of life in  a material way Board of directors Executive team Sustainability Council Economic Impact  Sub-Council Business integration and  continuous portfolio  improvement Environmental Impact  Sub-Council Conservation and protection of  the natural environment People and Society  Sub-Council Relationships with employees,  suppliers, clients and  communities  O NG OI NG  S TA KE H OL DE R E NG AG EM EN T IN TE RN AL  G OV ER NA NC E  OF  S US TA IN AB IL IT Y I SS""
""UE S  AN D  OP PO RT UN IT IE S M O ST  M AT E RI AL  E S G  IS S U ES  A N D  O P P O R T U NI TI E S GOVERNANCE Governance of material sustainability issues and opportunities Sustainability governance Eastman is committed to strong governance. Click here  to learn more about how we govern material sustainability  and ESG issues. We remain committed to maintaining  our strong corporate governance policies and practices  while enhancing the transparency of our business.   Guiding this""
""integration, the Environmental, Safety and  Sustainability (ESS) Committee of the Eastman Board of  Directors reviews with management and, where appropriate,  makes recommendations regarding the company’s policies  and practices concerning health, safety, environmental,  security, sustainability, philanthropy, public policy and  political activities. The board remains committed to  maintaining a strong alignment between company  performance and our executive compensation program  and has taken""
""greater steps to align the outcomes of the  company’s I&D, sustainability and ESG efforts with executive  compensation as another measure of accountability.  Eastman’s sustainability council is composed of executive  team members and senior leaders to drive alignment of our  commitments across the enterprise and address emerging  opportunities. Eastman’s board chair and CEO has executive  responsibility for the company’s strategy and performance,  including sustainability performance as it""
""aligns to the  corporate strategy. Sustainability goals are included in  our CEO’s annual personal performance commitments,  including environmental performance and safety. | | | | | | 16 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary   1 2 +  Ye a r s 0 - 6   Y e a r s 6 – 1 2   Y e a r s GOVERNANCE Governance of material sustainability issues and opportunities (continued) Board of directors Time on  the board The board recognizes that its success hinges on its  ability to""
""W. Raisbeck  Retired Vice Chairman  of Cargill Inc. Mark J. Costa  CEO and Board Chair of Eastman Linnie M. Haynesworth  Retired Sector Vice President   and General Manager of   Northup Grumman Corporation Donald W. Slager  Retired Chief Executive Officer  of Republic Services, Inc. | | | | | | 17 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  GOVERNANCE Materiality  assessment Eastman is data-driven in our identification and monitoring of sustainability risk. In 2024, we""
""updated our materiality matrix based on the importance our diverse set of external and   internal stakeholders place on identified sustainability issues.   We prioritize these sustainability issues using Datamaran, software that enables a data-driven   and dynamic process for ESG risk identification and monitoring. With Datamaran’s patented   technology, we harness innovation to gain a continuous, evidence-based review of ESG-related   risks within our regulatory, competitive and operating""
""contexts. Eastman uses Datamaran to   aggregate and analyze public communications and disclosures from our top stakeholders,   including customers, industries and peers, investors, media, policymakers, regulators and   suppliers. Datamaran also sends surveys to Eastman leaders who facilitate our Community   Advisory Panels (CAPs) and discuss relevant issues with those members. We use the sustainability materiality assessment to identify areas of focus and refine our  commitments. All 32 factors""
""in this listening tool are important. Prioritization and effective  management of these issues and opportunities are integrated into our strategy, business  models, risk management and governance to drive continued progress. The results are  considered as we determine the information included in our public disclosures, including this  sustainability report, and ultimately drive the development of our A Better Circle framework.  The results of our materiality assessment and determination of our""
""material topics are   reviewed by the Sustainability Council.  See details on Eastman’s materiality assessment on the next page. ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE | | | | | | 18 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Air emissions   Business model resilience   Climate change and  risk management​  Customer privacy and   data security  Employee diversity   and inclusion  Employee health and safety​  Energy management  GHG emissions Management of the  legal and regulatory""
""environment   Product design and   life cycle management​ Product and service   safety and quality Waste and hazardous  material management   Water and wastewater  management Access and affordability​  Community relations​ Competitive behavior  Governance structures   and mechanisms      Labor practices​ Management of local   impacts  Natural capital​ Physical and   sociopolitical risks  Responsible consumption   and production Selling practices and   product labeling  Ecological impact""
""Innovation and technology  Transparency Workforce management Ethical corporate   behavior Human rights   Sourcing efficiency   and management Transition to renewables   and alternative energies HIGHEST PRIORITY HIGHEST PRIORITY Impact on Eastman Relevance for stakeholder GOVERNANCE Materiality  assessment  matrix | | | | | | 19 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  GOVERNANCE Stakeholder engagement Employees  The MyImpact platform, launched in 2021, enhances internal""
""communication and education on  Eastman’s sustainability strategy. Leveraged by our six Eastman Resource Groups (ERGs)  and multiple other employee groups, it facilitates special events, volunteering and  donation opportunities. Eastman also conducts pulse surveys to gather insights  from our diverse workforce for integrating sustainability into our culture. Customers  To fill our innovation pipeline, we prioritize understanding the value  chain’s needs and expectations. By actively engaging""
""downstream,  we identify the key sustainability drivers for our customers  and deliver sustainable innovations to support their goals. Communities  We regularly engage with Community Advisory Panels (CAPs)  in our operating communities to address shared interests  such as public health and safety. Across all regions, Eastman  team members also volunteer their time to community  organizations, showing an investment in where we live. Media  We communicate proactively through various media channels""
""to reach  our target audiences and ensure transparency. Eastman regularly  monitors global traditional and social media to track sustainability- related issues and public sentiment. These insights inform our corporate  strategy, which we share in leadership meetings and regular communications. Investors ​  We actively engage with investors on sustainability issues through various channels, including   our annual stockholder meeting and report, quarterly financial results, public webcasts   and""
""calls, SEC filings and other public releases, targeted ESG road shows, and   in-person investor events.    Policymakers and regulators  Our government affairs team engages directly with legislators and regulators  on stakeholder concerns and issues that may impact our corporate  commitments. This engagement emphasizes the importance of   industry-wide collaboration in recycling, improving plastic waste  feedstocks and more.       Nongovernmental organizations (NGOs)  Philanthropic partners and""
""NGOs contribute knowledge to inform   our sustainability efforts. For instance, the Eastman Foundation  collaborates with organizations to enhance social well-being,  environmental integrity and economic success. Our circularity   teams also engages with nonprofits like The Recycling Partnership   to expand and improve recycling in the U.S.      Suppliers  Eastman actively engages with suppliers to assess their sustainability  commitment and drive improvements. We are part of Together for""
""Sustainability (TfS), a global network of chemical companies dedicated  to enhancing supply chain sustainability. Supplier assessments are  done through EcoVadis, and site audits are conducted as necessary. Media Employees Customers Suppliers NGOs Material issues Investors Communities Policymakers & regulators IN FL UE N CE RS      C O AL IT IO NS  &  C O U N CI LS    T RA DE  A SS O CI AT IO NS    G OV ER N M EN T       A CT IV IS T S      I N D US TR Y  &  PE ER S            TR AD E       S TR""
""AT EG IC  P AR TN ER SH IP S           A CA DE MI A  &  RE SE AR C H | | | | | | 20 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  GOVERNANCE Working to create A Better Circle 38% 85% 38% 88% 14% 15% 2030 2030 2030 Target year Results 2022 2023 Our goals: 2030 16.3% 22.3% 14% 10%b 18.1M lb 8,000 MT 21.9M lb 9,934 MT 2025 2030 Sustainability is integral to our strategy, driven by innovation and focused always on people. Eastman has the responsibility   and opportunity to lead,""
""joining others to mitigate climate change, mainstream circularity and care for society.  Mitigating climate change​ Mainstreaming circularity​ Caring for society • Reduce our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by one-third by 2030 to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050a • 100% of NAR and Europe purchased electricity will be renewable by 2030 We have also received review-level assurance in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Public Accountants (AICPA)""
""over our Scope 1   and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions for the year ending in 2023.  aResults are reduction since baseline year.  bAn accounting change for purchased electricity in 2023 resulted in an expected decrease in renewable energy.  • Recycle more than 500 million pounds (225,000 MT) of plastic waste annually by 2030 via molecular recycling      technologies, with a commitment to recycle 250 million pounds (110,000 MT) annually by 2025 Eastman began full operation and production of on-""
""spec material at our methanolysis facility for polyester waste in Kingsport, Tennessee, in March 2024, giving us two   complementary molecular recycling technologies. Carbon renewal technology, our other technology, recycles a broader set of mixed plastic waste. Our recycling volumes   have continued to increase year over year, and operation of our new Kingsport facility will significantly increase overall volumes in 2024 and 2025. • 100% of growth R&D spend aligns with sustainable macro trends""
""to create materials that improve the quality of life      for people around the world • Achieve gender parity in alignment with our commitment to Paradigm for Parity® • Be a leader for U.S. racial equity within our industry sector​ | | | | | | 21 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Mainstreaming  circularity Governance Eastman’s circular economy platform has executive  and senior-level oversight, with meetings on a regular  cadence to review progress on our strategy""
""as we grow  the impact of our molecular recycling technologies. Strategy Eastman is prioritizing circularity of materials as our strategy   because the future of our planet depends on it. To do this, we  must engage all stakeholders to ensure acceptance of material-to- material molecular recycling technologies and the necessity of a  mass balance framework to help drive innovation more quickly. Business risk/opportunity As an industry leader, we began operation of the world's  largest material-""
""to-material molecular recycling facility in  early 2024 and are operating at commercial scale. Produced  with plastic waste destined for landfill or incineration, this  versatile, high-quality molecularly recycled material helps us  and our value chains shift global product consumption to more  sustainable materials without sacrificing performance. Metrics and progress Beginning operation of our new molecular recycling facility and  producing on-spec material with recycled content puts us on  a""
""trajectory to achieve our recycling goals. By 2025, we expect  to recycle 250 million pounds (110,000 MT) of plastic waste  annually.  We also have a commitment to recycle 500 million  pounds (250 KMT) by 2030.  With plans for two additional  molecular recycling facilities, one in Longview, Texas, and another  in France, we will be well equipped to meet our 2030 goal. | | | | | | 22 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Those who happen to be in Kingsport, Tennessee,""
""planned for Normandy, France.  These projects are part of our plan to invest more  approximately $2.25 billion to expand molecular   recycling, so hard-to-recycle waste doesn’t go to  incineration or landfill but is instead recycled so it   can be used to make new products again and again.   Our two complementary recycling innovations,   polyester renewal technology and carbon renewal  technology, reduce our carbon footprint because   they produce chemical intermediates with fewer   greenhouse""
""gas emissions compared to heritage  processes that use fossil feedstocks.   We’re a pioneer in molecular recycling, but our strategy  to bring circularity into the mainstream isn’t limited to  this technology innovation. Circularity is more than that.   We’re also innovating new materials that are recyclable  for applications where they historically haven’t  been. Through recyclable products like Eastman  Embrace™ Encore copolyester shrink labels for  packaging and Eastman Cristal™ One for""
""cosmetics  containers, we are working with brands to deliver  sustainable materials that promote exceptional  recyclability so that materials are never truly wasted.   Waste from food trays is a special challenge. The  trays themselves are sometimes not easily recyclable,  and even when they are, they’re often covered with  leftover food that prevents recycling. With Aventa™  Renew compostable materials, we’ve introduced  an alternative so meat trays — as well as any  remaining food — can break""
""down into compost.   Aventa Renew, a biobased product made from  sustainably sourced wood and recycled waste,  comes from our deep cellulosics expertise.    Eastman introduced cellulosic products exactly  100 years ago, so biobased materials have long  been fundamental to our company. Mainstreaming  circularity is an evolution of that heritage, and we plan  to keep pushing the boundaries of what’s possible to  make waste a thing of the past — and preserve and  restore the planet for the""
""generations to come.   MATERIALS FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Our vision for a circular economy in clear focus Eastman’s commitment to show the world what is   possible is now more visible and tangible than ever. | | | | | | 23 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  MATERIALS FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Start-up of new Kingsport facility is changing recycling March 2024 marked a pivotal moment for what  the world can expect for plastic recycling. That’s when our new molecular""
""recycling facility became  fully operational, enabling mountains of hard-to-recycle  plastic waste to be processed into new materials —  virgin-quality and meeting the same specifications  of heritage products — instead of going to landfill. Mark Costa, our CEO, said the full start-up of our  facility on March 21 carried unique importance  for Eastman’s long-term vision where plastic  is circular and used again and again. “By demonstrating molecular recycling at this  scale, we solidified our""
""position as a leader  in the circular economy,” Costa said. We built the world’s largest material-to-material  molecular recycling facility in Kingsport, Tennessee,  leveraging the integration of our primary manufacturing  site. Now, we’re producing significantly more Eastman  Renew materials with certified recycled content*  for the specialty materials used in items like sports  bottles, eyeglasses, small appliances, baby bottles  — and much more. Because our processes work on  the molecular""
""level, Eastman can recycle products  infinitely without any loss in performance. Our new facility is essential for us to achieve our  recycling commitments, reduce plastic waste and  provide more sustainable materials to customers.  Scott Ballard, president of Eastman plastics, said  there’s a bigger picture to consider too. “This is what the height of innovation looks like — doing something that’s never been done before,”  Ballard said. “This is important for Eastman. We’re  able to recycle a""
""lot of plastic waste and help mitigate  climate change. But we’re catalyzing an impact  bigger than ourselves. We want others to follow us  and do the same thing. We need others to follow  us to create a bigger impact for the planet.” *Certified recycled content allocated using ISCC PLUS mass balance. | | | | | | 24 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  MATERIALS FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Start-up of new Kingsport facility is changing recycling (continued) How this is""
""unique Eastman uses methanolysis at the new facility to process  waste polyester such as colored and opaque beverage and  detergent bottles, polyester textiles, X-ray film and carpet. These items and others would otherwise be waste  because they don’t work in today’s mechanical recycling  processes. One of the key reasons Eastman was a  first mover is our site integration, which enabled us to  leverage our existing polymers infrastructure. Eastman  has previous experience with the technology""
""too. We pioneered methanolysis in the 1970s. We retained  the expertise and began refining it through pilot plant  operations the past several years. Eastman’s capabilities  in engineering and manufacturing operations, married  with our methanolysis knowledge, made this unique  facility possible.    As manufacturing leader for our plastics division,  Kevin McGuire sees methanolysis operations daily. “The power of our integration and personnel is what  allowed us to go from mechanical completion""
""to safely  starting up and producing on-spec product so quickly,”  McGuire said. “It’s amazing to watch — to see waste arrive  and know that this was destined to go to a landfill where it  would stay forever, but instead it goes into our plant and  comes out on the other side as usable, recycled material.  Science and know-how and our teams make this possible.”  “No one has ever done this on this scale before,”  Ballard said of the completed methanolysis facility.  “It took a Herculean effort to""
""bring it to fruition.” What does 250 million pounds   (110,000 MT) look like? or or 11 billion  single–use water bottles 790 million  polyester T-shirts 2.7 billion  plastic shampoo bottles Michelle Caveness Vice President, TNO Site Leader and Global Operations Support  (she/her/hers) Michelle Caveness, vice president of the Kingsport  site and global operations support, said this project is  one of the most important feats in company history. We called upon Eastman team members from  across the""
""company to step forward and bring this  one-of-a-kind facility online. Their commitment  has inspired us all, Caveness said. “Many of them  changed their plans and made personal sacrifices  to reach this milestone, making it possible to keep  hard-to-recycle plastics out of our landfills. By doing  so, they have reshaped the future, likely changing  the trajectory of our industry and setting in motion  improvements to our world for generations to come.” | | | | | | 25 Governance Circularity""
""Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  MATERIALS FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Beth Alderson and Jennifer McCusker show collaboration is key to innovation “The new molecular recycling plant is the largest  and most impactful thing Eastman has done in  the last 50 years,” said Jennifer McCusker, the lead  chemist on the project. “This project wasn’t a sprint  or a marathon. It was an Ironman competition.”  Not only was the job like a long-distance  triathlon of swimming, cycling and running  — it""
""had to be done within a time limit.  “This is one of the most technically complex  projects I’ve contributed to and one of the most  significant, especially as the Kingsport facility is  the flagship for the circular economy platform,”  said Beth Alderson, engineering fellow.   Alderson and McCusker served as a key process engineer  and lead process chemist, respectively, on the start- up of the world’s largest molecular recycling plant.  During the last two years they worked on the plant,  both""
""global sites.  “It took an enormous number of people with  everyone dedicated at every level — within  manufacturing, technology, engineering and other  organizations — to make this work,” Alderson said.   Everyone understood what the success of this project   meant for the environment.   “Plastics aren’t going away,” said Alderson. “They add  value to people’s lives, and there is always a need. Helping  create a means by which these needed plastics can be  reused and not end up in a landfill is""
""very rewarding. Spotlight of Eastman fellows Jennifer McCusker Technology Fellow  (she/her/hers) Beth Alderson Engineering Fellow  (she/her/hers) | | | | | | 26 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  MATERIALS FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Eastman's focus on sustainability drew marketing veteran to the cause Cindy Nelson   Senior Marketing Communications  Account Manager  (she/her/hers)  Molecular recycling spotlight: Cindy Nelson In 2020, when she learned about Eastman's""
""new goals  focused on circularity, climate change and caring for  society, Cindy Nelson knew she wanted to join the  cause. With marketing and advertising experience  for brands like McDonald's and True Value Hardware,  she joined Eastman in 2022 as a senior marketing  communications account manager for specialty  plastics with a focus on automotive and electronics.    With molecular recycling technology, Eastman uses   plastic waste such as textiles, carpet, and colored and   opaque bottles —""
""items otherwise destined for landfill   or incineration — as valuable raw material known   as feedstock.       Nelson and her marketing communications teammates  distilled the message into the tagline It's the feedstock™   to easily highlight how Eastman changes the fate of   plastic so that it doesn’t become waste.        The automotive industry is a good example. Every year,  it generates 10 billion pounds of plastic waste. Through  collaboration with the United States Automotive  Materials""
""Partnership (USAMP), Eastman demonstrated  that automotive plastic waste could be recycled  indefinitely with our carbon renewal technology. Nelson  and her team played a crucial role in telling that story.  To demonstrate the magnitude of waste in landfills,  Nelson and the team created strategic engagements,  including filling a pickup truck with automotive  plastic waste at General Motors’ Innovation Hub. This  approach motivated engineers to think about designing  with material end of life""
""in mind at the onset. The circular economy marketing communications  team was also crucial in getting another stakeholder  group to take action. As a matter of fact, the  effort led to a recycling world record.  That communications team, working with the  University of Tennessee, aimed to set a world  record for the largest college recycling event, at a  UT college football game. During that 2022 game,  fans recycled 38,452 pounds of waste, with hard-to- recycle plastics sent to Eastman as""
""feedstock. UT and  Eastman partnered a year later to surpass that record  by recycling 44,950 pounds of game-day waste.   “For me, marketing communications at Eastman  is about translating our innovation and chemistry  into terms that anyone — from stakeholders to  consumers — can easily understand and articulate,”  Nelson said. “Eastman is changing the world, and our  team tells the world what’s possible — literally.”    “I believe we have brilliant  scientists and engineers  at Eastman, and""
""they are  creating products that will  change the world for the  better. The chemistry behind  our products sets us apart.” | | | | | | 27 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  MAINSTREAMING CIRCULARITY Partnerships | | | | | | 28 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  METHANOLYSIS PARTNERSHIPS Partners in circularity BLACK + DECKER bringing sustainability   to home products Stanley Black & Decker is well-known and respected in  the tool""
""market, but the 100-year-old BLACK+DECKER  brand needed to build awareness with younger,  sustainably minded do-it-yourself consumers.  The company turned to Eastman for our Tritan™  Renew copolyester, a safe, tough, durable material  made with 50% certified recycled content.* Dan Fitzgerald, Stanley Black & Decker’s senior  director of product sustainability, knew the biggest  impact on the company’s carbon footprint was the  materials that go into making finished products.  Materials with""
""recycled content, like Tritan Renew,  can help lower its product carbon footprints. “Historically, recycled content was looked down upon  as being lower quality or having inferior performance  as well as being inconsistent from lot to lot,” Fitzgerald  said. “A power tool is a high-performance machine but  made to fit into your hand. They are designed to deliver  significant output torque in the case of drills and efficient,  quality results in the case of a sander. These tools crank  out""
""considerable amounts of work and draw enough  current to act as an ignition source for fire, which is why  the materials need to be flame rated for safe use.”   The company needed materials to be durable in a  power tool housing but also consistent in quality  and color to perfectly match the brand colors. Tritan Renew met all those needs along with the  specifications of the power tool housing, which led  to the idea of a new product line aimed at a younger  generation of do-it-yourselfers.""
""BLACK+DECKER  released a completely new power tool line, reviva™,  rooted in the concept of designing for circularity and  ushering in a new wave of product innovation. After first  being used in the reviva line, Tritan Renew is now being  adopted in other BLACK+DECKER products. Read more. *Certified recycled content allocated using ISCC PLUS mass balance. | | | | | | 29 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  METHANOLYSIS PARTNERSHIPS Partners in circularity 10th""
""consumers.  We are delighted to work with Eastman to  ensure that fast-moving, affordable fashion and  environmental responsibility are not mutually  Luxury cosmetics packaging producer Axilone  teamed up with us to create a lipstick design  with the environmentally conscious cosmetics  consumer in mind. Axilone used Eastman Cristal™  One Renew resin as a replacement for a material  of concern that hinders recycling efforts. The  result is a recyclable, refillable lipstick. Since it is""
""compatible with the PET recycling stream   for all the components, the mono-material packaging  does not require disassembly before recycling. It also  addressed Axilone’s need for a fully smooth-glide   exclusive,” said Jerry Dreifuss, CEO of SEG. “With  the launch of this new sustainable collection, INVU  continues to deliver on its promise to offer cutting- edge eyewear while prioritizing sustainability.  Tritan Renew, which is made with 50% certified  recycled content* derived from hard-to-""
""recycle waste,  performs like virgin-quality material. SEG chose Tritan  Renew as a unique material that combines exceptional,  environmentally responsible qualities without imposing  manufacturing restrictions. Read more.  *Certified recycled content allocated using ISCC PLUS mass balance operation in the mechanism, which is difficult to  achieve with most other recyclable resins. “Reducing the environmental impact of our products  is at the heart of Axilone’s vocation,” said Reynald  Trochel,""
""innovation director at Axilone. “Through our  partnership with Eastman and with this mono-material  lipstick made with Cristal Renew with 100% certified  recycled content,* we can simultaneously enhance  their recyclability and reinforce the flows of the circular  economy with a refillable package.” Read more. | | | | | | 30 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  METHANOLYSIS PARTNERSHIPS Partners in circularity Ostium adopts Eastman Eastar™ 6763 Renew   for surgical""
""instrument packaging Medical device startup Ostium Group, a pioneering  company dedicated to revolutionizing orthopedic  surgical instrumentation, is choosing Eastman’s  sustainable packaging solution Eastar™ 6763  Renew copolyester for its CILLAR® Acetabular  and Femoral kits for total hip replacements. Sourcing Eastar Renew enables Ostium to certify  that plastic waste is being diverted from landfills  to produce new packaging. The amount of plastic  waste diverted is tracked through an ISCC-""
""certified  mass balance accounting approach that allocates  recycled content to Eastman Renew materials. By  adopting this sustainable packaging solution, Ostium  Group is taking a significant step toward reducing  plastic waste and its impact on the environment. “As a company focused on improving patient safety and  minimizing the environmental impact of healthcare  procedures, Ostium is thrilled to collaborate with  Eastman, said Vincent Retailleau, co-founder and general  manager of Ostium""
""Group. “Integrating its sustainable  packaging solution, Eastar 6763 Renew aligns perfectly  with our mission, said Retailleau. Together with Eastman,  we are committed to delivering innovative solutions  that benefit both patients and the planet.” Read more. | | | | | | 31 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  METHANOLYSIS PARTNERSHIPS Partners in circularity Collaborating to eliminate single-use plastic   waste in the airline industry ICONS | ICS offers compacts""
""made from   Eastman Cristal™ One Renew We’re collaborating with deSter, a leading global  provider of innovative service ware and food packaging  concepts for the travel and food service industries, to  bring innovation to the airline industry by introducing  reusable in-flight drinkware made with Tritan™ Renew.  “The airline industry generates 6.1 million tons of  plastic waste per year, representing 2% of the world’s  plastic waste and more than 50% of aircraft waste.*  We see tremendous""
""potential to eliminate this waste  with reusable service ware. For drinking cups, we have  to find a durable and sustainable material to meet  the design and operational challenges. Tritan Renew  is one of the materials with the greatest potential  ICONS|ICS launched a mono-material cosmetic compact  that pushes the boundaries of eco-friendly packaging.  It’s made entirely from Eastman Cristal™ One Renew,  an resin identification code 1 (RIC 1) resin with 100%  certified recycled content* that""
""is compatible with the  PET recycling stream. The elimination of traditional  metal hinges and pins greatly improves the recyclability  of the compact, while its refillable design allows  consumers to easily replenish their cosmetic products. to meet this demanding challenge,” said Philippe  De Naeyer, director sustainability at deSter. In that industry, plastics must be able to endure a  relatively harsh cycle of transportation, onboard use  and cleaning via commercial dishwashing. Having more""
""items that can last through the airline’s usage cycle while  also retaining their high-end look will not only allow  airlines to reduce waste but also to maintain a premium  experience. Tritan Renew is extremely durable, making it  an ideal material for this type of heavy usage. Read more. *WRAP, 2017; UNEP, 2018; Blanca-Alcubilla et al., 2018 “The collaboration with Eastman aligns perfectly with our  commitment to providing sustainable packaging solutions  to the cosmetics industry,” said Dave""
""Thompson,  ICONS|ICS director of technical and design. “Together,  we are driving innovation by showing the world what is  possible in terms of eco-friendly packaging.” Read more. *Certified recycled content allocated using ISCC PLUS mass balance | | | | | | 32 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  MAINSTREAMING CIRCULARITY Feedstocks | | | | | | 33 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  FEEDSTOCKS Moving mountains through molecular""
""recycling Mechanical and molecular recycling: better together   Rumpke Waste & Recycling forged a groundbreaking  collaboration with Eastman that combines forces  and technologies to reduce plastic waste. A 90-year- old organization that is one of North America’s  leading recycling companies, Rumpke is collecting  and sorting hard-to-recycle and colored PET  packaging waste for Eastman. Rumpke delivers the  material to our Kingsport facility, where we transform  this waste into virgin-quality""
""polyesters that will  be used to make a wide variety of products.   Tackling the problem of apparel waste   In the age of fast fashion, apparel waste has become  an enormous challenge. Recycling advances and  collaboration can help solve the problem. A good  example is our work with Debrand. Debrand is a logistics  company that specializes in solutions for apparel waste  for leading apparel and footwear brands. We teamed  up with Debrand to recycle pre- and post-consumer  apparel waste and then""
""used the certified recycled  material in the creation of Naia™ Renew fibers. Solutions for France  We plan to build a molecular recycling facility in  France, and we’ll need large amounts of feedstock  for the facility. Eastman took a step forward with a  supply agreement with Interzero. As part of that long- term agreement, Interzero will provide Eastman up to  44,000,000 pounds (20,000 MT) per year of hard-to- recycle PET waste that would otherwise be incinerated. Also for our planned France""
""facility, Eastman  reached an agreement with Nord Pal Plast SA, part  of Dentis Group, a leading Italian multinational  company specializing in recovery and mechanical  recycling of PET packaging waste. Partners who share our commitment to turning waste into feedstock Through collaboration, we’re pioneering a new recycling system that brings economic value to waste streams that previously have gone to landfill or  incineration. By working with mechanical recyclers to accept waste that does not""
""fit with their processes, we are able to collectively expand the types of  products that get recycled — driving systemic change. Here are some of the partners  who share our commitment to turning waste into feedstock. | | | | | | 34 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  FEEDSTOCKS Polyester-based consumer products What exactly is hard-to-recycle waste? It’s many items that we use in our  everyday lives for vital purposes. But the polyester cannot be accepted by""
""traditional mechanical recycling. With molecular recycling to close the gap,  however, here are some of the things that no longer have to go to landfill.  Methanolysis feedstock examples Examples of products that can contain Eastman Renew Carpet fiber and yarn Colored PET PET compounds PET with labels Colored  PET flake Apparel Methanolysis | | | | | | 35 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  MPP is the feedstock MVP We announced in March that our new molecular""
""recycling  facility began operation in Kingsport, Tennessee. As we continue to ramp up production, Eastman’s  mixed plastics processing (MPP) facility plays the  crucial role in receiving and preparing feedstock  for methanolysis, the technology we use to recycle  polyester. Inside the facility, we prepare plastic waste  for methanolysis. This includes washing colored and  opaque articles, shredding and a densification process  to create methanolysis-ready feedstock pellets. The MPP facility""
""accepts hard-to-recycle polyester  materials from hundreds of sources, and Annie  Jackson manages the database of more than  1,500 potential feedstock sources as well as the  associated research program. A polymer scientist,  Jackson accepted the job of methanolysis feedstock  technical leader four years ago. In those early days  of molecular recycling, Jackson started the research  program with just a few unique samples in the lab. Now, Eastman has multiple warehouses in Northeast  Tennessee to""
""store plastic waste for recycling — in  addition to the huge MPP facility. Where once there was  one pile of waste, there are now literal mountains of  polyester processed into granules and flake inside MPP. “It’s inspiring to be part of a team where you can  literally see the difference Eastman is making by  recycling these huge volumes of plastic waste each  day,” Jackson said. “MPP is designed to process a broad  range of PET feedstock from a variety of sources in  a variety of forms. Not""
""only can we handle bottles  and food packaging, but we can take waste from  mechanical recyclers and textiles. Handling all these  different form factors adds a ton of complexity, but  the team at MPP has really embraced the challenge.” FEEDSTOCKS Ramping up molecular recycling production As time passes, the volume and kinds of plastic waste   will grow. “We’ve set boundaries for what we can accept today,”  Jackson said. “My role is to push those boundaries.” The familiarity of MPP for both""
""Jackson and Spencer  Tidwell, group leader for feedstock evaluation, doesn’t  diminish their appreciation for the scale of the operation. “The amount of volume we’re processing at MPP is  hard to comprehend until you see it,” Tidwell said. “At  full production, we will receive up to 35 trucks of waste  each day. It’s a testament to how much hard-to-recycle  waste there is and how energized everyone is about  our molecular recycling facility enabling circularity.” Watch this video to get a""
""picture of MPP.  | | | | | | 36 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  MAINSTREAMING CIRCULARITY Next on the  horizon | | | | | | 37 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  NEXT ON THE HORIZON: TEXAS Molecular recycling coming to our Longview site We announced major breakthroughs for our second  recycling facility in March. We intend to build in  Longview, Texas, and we were chosen by the U.S.  Department of Energy’s Office of Clean Energy""
""Demonstrations (OCED) to receive funding for clean  energy powered by next-generation technology.  Much like the advantages offered in Kingsport, a  molecular recycling facility in Longview will enable us  to leverage existing infrastructure and operations.  We will have the capacity to recycle approximately  110,000 MT of hard-to-recycle plastic waste, and we   have secured an offtake contract with PepsiCo.    Support from U.S. Department of Energy   As part of the award from the DOE, we plan""
""to invest  approximately $20 million in our Community Benefits  Plan (CBP), which will include the renovation and  repurposing of a underutilized building that will be  a hub for community outreach and other ongoing  community needs. OCED targets climate change,  and Eastman will use a relatively new clean energy  technology for process heat — thermal batteries  — on a scale never seen before in our industry. By  incorporating thermal batteries fed by renewable energy,  Eastman will be able to""
""use hard-to-recycle polyester  waste and produce new recycled materials with up to  90% reduced carbon emissions, including avoided  emissions, compared to fossil virgin production.  In addition to DOE support, Eastman also received  significant state and local tax support.   Building community strength In collaboration with community partners, Jasmine  Crumsey Forde, talent development and sustainability  manager, and Dani Woodrum, public affairs manager,  collaborated with Amy Hooper, director""
""Longview project perfectly illustrates how  we’re addressing three critical impact areas to build  A Better Circle,” said Brad Lich, Eastman’s chief  commercial officer. “We’ll provide an infinite life  for waste materials that would’ve otherwise gone  to landfill through molecular recycling operations  that will draw energy from renewable sources.  Eastman has deep roots in Longview, and we’re  strengthening our investment in the community, so  we can have a positive impact for years to come.”""
""Learn more details about the project's impact in   Longview on page 39. Our next building block for a circular economy *The U.S. Department of Energy’s Office of Clean Energy Demonstrations (OCED)  was established to accelerate clean energy technologies and fill a critical innovation  gap on the path to achieving our nation’s climate goals of net zero emissions by 2050.  OCED’s mission is to deliver clean energy demonstration projects at scale in partnership  with the private sector to""
""accelerate deployment, market adoption, and the equitable  transition to a decarbonized energy system. Visit energy.gov/oced to learn more. | | | | | | 38 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  NEXT ON THE HORIZON: TEXAS Building community resiliency and strengthening environmental justice Dani Woodrum   Global Public Affairs Strategic  Initiatives Manager   (she/her/hers)  Molecular recycling project will deliver   immense benefits to Longview community  The next""
""molecular recycling facility for Eastman,  in Longview, Texas, will be another significant  step in creating a circular economy. The project,  which is receiving up to $375 million in grant  funding from the U.S. Department of Energy’s  Office of Clean Energy Demonstrations (OCED),  will also strengthen the community. It will amplify our history of community involvement  in Longview through an approximately $20 million  commitment by Eastman to a comprehensive Community  Benefits Plan (CBP). The""
""DOE grant funding comes from  the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and Inflation Reduction  Act as part of the Industrial Demonstrations Program. “The aim of the plan is to ensure direct benefits  to surrounding communities through the creation  of quality jobs, advancing inclusion and diversity,  mitigating environmental impacts, and strengthening  two-way community engagement,” said Jasmine  Crumsey Forde, talent development and sustainability  manager at Eastman. “Making communities more""
""develop the plan. The public affairs team had already begun using  environmental justice tools to assess societal  needs and develop a strategy for Eastman to  help strengthen the Longview community. “To create the greatest benefit for the greatest number  of people, our plan couldn’t be generic,” Woodrum said.  “We didn’t just need to know the data; we needed to  understand the narrative behind the data to position our  plan for the greatest possible impact.”  “We conducted a detailed""
""assessment of the site and  the needs of our employees  and surrounding community  then crafted a tailored  solution to address them.” | | | | | | 39 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  NEXT ON THE HORIZON: FRANCE Molecular recycling site planned for Normandy We continue to work through the necessary   milestones as we proceed with our planned   facility in the Normandy region of France. This   project is part of our strategy to invest approximately  $2.25 billion""
""in three molecular recycling locations.  This planned facility will also process approximately   250 million pounds (110,000 MT) annually. With strong support from the French government  and Normandy, we have secured significant  feedstocks for the facility, including an agreement  we reached in February 2024 with Nord Pal  Plast SA, part of Dentis Group, a leading Italian  multinational company specializing in recovery and  mechanical recycling of PET packaging waste.  Dentis will provide""
""30,000 metric tonnes per year   of rejected PET post-consumer waste to Eastman.   These materials, which currently lack a circular solution,   will be recycled at Eastman's molecular recycling facility   in Port-Jérôme-sur-Seine, Normandy. We have secured   over 70% of the feedstock for our planned operations   in Normandy. The collaboration with Dentis underscores the  importance and complementary nature of both  mechanical and molecular recycling processes in   creating a more sustainable""
""future. Through the   collective expertise and resources of the two   companies, we aim to bring new value to  waste materials. French government has provided strong support “We are very pleased to enter into this agreement with  Eastman, since our group is strongly committed to  promoting a continuous transition from a linear to a  circular economy in the packaging market,” said Corrado  Dentis, Dentis/Nord Pal Plast’s CEO. “This partnership  contributes to create a standing valuable platform""
""towards PET waste reduction, making mechanical and  chemical recycling effectively complementary towards  the achievements of European plastic recycling rates.” | | | | | | 40 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  MAINSTREAMING CIRCULARITY Eastman cellulosics Molecular recycling has accelerated our strategy to  bring circular materials into the mainstream, but  molecular recycling is far from the sole element  of our commitment to circularity. One of those  molecular""
""recycling technologies, carbon renewal  technology (CRT), couples with a century-old  Eastman material — cellulosics — to deliver a unique,  sustainable product for multiple applications. The Eastman innovators who introduced cellulosics  exactly 100 years ago were ahead of their time. They  could not know they had created the material of  tomorrow, one that is more relevant and important than  ever. The reasons are all around us. Natural resources  are finite. The limitations on traditional""
""recycling have  resulted in waste piling up in landfills. Microplastics  are collecting in our oceans at alarming rates. Our cellulosic biopolymers platform offers solutions  to those modern problems, with applications textiles,  food packaging, food service and personal care. Most  importantly, this material is sustainable at the beginning  of life and at the end of life. We create cellulosics  from biobased, renewable wood pulp from sustainably  managed forests. At the end of life, these""
""products  are biodegradable and do not persist as microplastics  — and in the case of food service, are a compostable  solution that replenishes soil. Combining these  An Eastman material introduced 100 years ago   has become the sustainable material of tomorrow cellulosics with certified recycled content from CRT  increases the sustainability of some cellulosic products  through the use of mixed plastic waste as feedstock. Innovation and a surge in application development the  past five years""
""have expanded the use of cellulosics  to meet today’s needs. Brands that have established  commitments to use materials that meet strict standards  for biodegradability, compostability or recyclability are  increasingly turning to Eastman cellulosics because they  get the environmental benefits and high performance. Canopy  Hot Button   Report Following are some of the certifications and honors that attest to the sustainability of our cellulosics products. | | | | | | 41 Governance Circularity""
""Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  MAINSTREAMING CIRCULARITY Eastman cellulosics (continued) Naia™ from Eastman is our cellulosic fiber bringing  sustainability to the fashion industry with performance  that ensures designers and brands retain creativity  without compromise. And Naia™ Renew, which includes  40% certified recycled material from GRS-certified mass  balance allocation, is delivering fashion circularity at scale. Eastman Aventa™ compostable materials are  replacing single-""
""use food service packaging that  isn’t recyclable, and Aventa is certified compostable  and biodegradable, leaving behind no microplastics  while performing like traditional materials. Aventa  Renew is the only compostable material that  contains both biobased and certified recycled  content using ISCC mass balance allocation. For years, scientists at the Woods Hole Oceanographic  Institute (WHOI) have researched how waste intersects  with the marine environment. Though it's never the   intended""
""outcome for waste materials to make it into  marine environments, regrettably, it does occur. WHOI scientists found that a new version of  cellulose diacetate (CDA) is the fasted degrading  bioplastic that they tested in seawater. That  CDA is one of the ingredients in Aventa Renew,  Eastman’s unique compostable material that  contains both biobased and certified recycled  content through mass balance allocation. Aventa Renew received home compostable certification  from TÜV Austria and""
""industrial compostable  certification from Biodegradable Products Institute (BPI). Eastman Solus™ performance additives are  helping brands achieve packaging sustainability  by replacing polyethylene-coated containers  with a compostable, recyclable solution. Eastman Esmeri™ cellulose ester micropowder  is our new solution for cosmetics and personal  care products, a naturally derived ingredient  that has high performance properties and is  biodegradable, leaving behind no microplastics. Read""
""the following pages to learn more about carbon  renewal technology and cellulosic products that are  meeting material needs and preserving our planet. Tangible sustainability Aventa and other Eastman cellulosic products undergo  rigorous, third-party testing and evaluation to ensure  our materials are better solutions for the planet. Eastman holds the Forest Stewardship Council® Chain  of Custody certification that represents the traceability  of our wood-based raw materials. Naia™ counts the""
""FSC  mark of responsible forestry among its certifications,  and our cellulosic fiber has been recognized with Canopy  Hot Button dark green shirt, signaling our commitment  to the protection of ancient and endangered forests. Our first Esmeri product, Eastman Esmeri CC1N10,  is a non-microplastic, biodegradable material in  compliance with European Union regulations  on synthetic polymer microparticles.   Research, rigorous certifications prove   biodegradability, compostability of   Eastman""
""cellulosic biopolymers  | | | | | | 42 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  CRT tackles mixed plastic waste to   complete the molecular recycling picture A type of molecular recycling, carbon renewal technology (CRT) is a reforming   technology that gives new life to hard-to-recycle plastic waste and complements   our polyester renewal technology. CRT is able to recycle most plastics with the   exception of PVC. CRT takes a wide variety of mixed plastic waste and""
""breaks it down into its  molecular building blocks, allowing the molecules to be reassembled to build  new products that tie to our cellulosics stream. CRT allows materials to be  recycled an infinite number of times with no compromise or loss of quality. It can keep difficult-to-recycle material out of landfills and incinerators.  The process also reduces greenhouse gas emissions by 20%–50% at the  intermediate level compared to processes using fossil fuels. And the end  products are identical""
""to those produced with virgin content. We recycle pre-consumer and post-consumer waste, including textiles, carpet   and leftover material from the production of eyeglasses, closing the loop   on the mixed-plastic life cycle. MAINSTREAMING CIRCULARITY Carbon  renewal  technology | | | | | | 43 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  CARBON RENEWAL TECHNOLOGY Naia™ Renew changing sustainable fashion We’re taking the future of sustainable fashion a step  further with""
""Naia™ Renew ES. This enhanced sustainability  (ES) fiber helps us protect and preserve the planet’s  resources and is our answer to the overconsumption  of raw materials, the growing plastic and textile  waste problem, and rising greenhouse gases.  Eastman Naia™ Renew ES is made with increased  certified recycled content. Produced from 60%  recycled waste material via GRS-certified mass  balance and 40% sustainable wood pulp, this  innovative fiber requires fewer virgin materials.   In early""
""2024, we teamed up with sustainable fashion  brand Reformation to launch Naia™ Renew ES at  scale. As part of its new bridal collection, Reformation  created three dress styles featuring Naia™ Renew ES,  which the brand describes as “like silk but better.”  “Reducing our reliance on virgin silk is an important  part of achieving our ambitious commitments  to become climate positive by 2025,” said Carrie  Freiman Parry, senior director of sustainability at  Reformation. “Innovative materials like""
""Naia™ Renew  ES help us drive sustainable fashion forward while  continuing to deliver the high-quality, on-trend product  customers love and expect from Reformation.”  This year, Canadian women’s design house Aritzia, known  for its Everyday Luxury wardrobe essentials, also launched  an assortment of styles made with Naia™ Renew. This  fits into Aritzia's broader strategy to increase adoption  of lower impact materials and promote environmental  stewardship throughout the production processes.""
""One of our top sustainability goals is mainstreaming  circularity by promoting sustainable practices in  the textiles industry. Partnering with fashion leaders  like Reformation and Aritzia is an investment  in our future. These brands see the possibilities  circularity creates for the fashion industry.  Naia™ Renew ES brings circularity at scale | | | | | | 44 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Combating climate change and its impacts can’t be  done by any one""
""person or company alone. That’s  why our Naia™ team is committed to achieving  our sustainability goal of establishing global  partnerships, making real environmental impacts.   “Our collaborations show the world what’s possible  when it comes to sustainability,” said Carolina Sister  Cohn, global marketing lead for Eastman textiles. “We  have the technology to make the textiles industry  circular, and we know it requires collaboration with  innovative brands to make circular fashion possible.”""
""This year, we collaborated with Debrand through  take-back recycling programs to help support  our circular fibers feedstock and provide  solutions for end-of-life apparel waste.  Take-back programs allow consumers to bring their  most loved clothing back to retailers for recycling  when garments reach their end of use. Collecting the  apparel for Eastman’s molecular recycling technology  enables us to create new fibers for circular fashion.    Debrand is a reverse logistics company that""
""collected  top apparel brands’ unusable garments to be  processed through Eastman’s molecular recycling  technology. This program recycled 5,000 pounds of  pre- and post-consumer apparel waste, which can  be used to produce new Naia™ Renew fibers with  40% certified recycled content* waste material.   Partnerships and demonstration projects like these  drive progress on our Naia™ sustainability goals,  particularly to mainstream circularity. Turning discarded  garments into new Naia™ Renew""
""fibers is a great  end-of-use textile solution. When we collaborate  with sustainably minded partners, we help drive the  necessary infrastructure changes, including collection  and sortation systems for mixed-fiber garments, to  advance sustainability in the fashion industry.  *Naia™ Renew recycled content is achieved by allocation of recycled       waste material using a GRS-certified mass balance process. CARBON RENEWAL TECHNOLOGY Naia™ Renew partnerships Making textile-to-textile recycling""
""possible with Naia™ | | | | | | 45 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  ANDY WOLF EYEWEAR switches to Acetate Renew  for more sustainable eyewear ANDY WOLF EYEWEAR, an independent Austrian  eyewear brand, has partnered with Eastman  to develop stylish eyewear and sunglasses  frames using Eastman Acetate Renew while  minimizing their environmental impact.  Acetate Renew is made from 60% sustainably  sourced wood pulp and 40% certified recycled  content.* Fossil""
""resources used in traditional acetate  are replaced by hard-to-recycle plastics such as  carpets, textiles or eyewear industry waste.  ANDY WOLF began transitioning to Acetate  Renew in 2022, aiming for 75% of acetate frames  of the entire collection to be made from Acetate  Renew by 2025. They achieved this goal by the  end of 2023, two years ahead of schedule.   “The adoption of Acetate Renew across leading  eyewear brands like ANDY WOLF is a significant  milestone toward a more sustainable""
""future for  eyewear,” said Rachel Oakley, global eyewear segment  lead at Eastman. “Eastman is delighted to witness the  widespread recognition and adoption of Acetate Renew  as it fosters a circular economy and helps reduce the  environmental impact of the eyewear industry.”  *Certified recycled content allocated using ISCC PLUS mass balance. CARBON RENEWAL TECHNOLOGY ANDY WOLF EYEWEAR and Acetate Renew partnership | | | | | | 46 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary""
""CARBON RENEWAL TECHNOLOGY Aventa™ drives circularity in food service A material that delivers advantages   in sustainability, compostability Eastman Aventa™ offers manufacturers of food  service items a material option that holds up to  rigorous use and has a sustainable end of life.  “Aventa helps give retailers and customers a  reliable, environmentally sound option,” said Jeff  Carbeck, Eastman vice president of corporate  innovation and care solutions technology. “We’re  improving the""
""sustainability story for product lines  that have long been a source of plastic waste.”  Aventa is used in the food service market for compostable  straws, compostable cutlery in retail, and compostable  protein trays in the food packaging market.  Products made from Aventa replace existing  plastics that can't be recycled with a sustainable  solution, eliminating the problem of plastic  waste while providing similar performance. Aventa is made from acetic acid and sustainably   sourced wood""
""pulp, making it biobased  and derived from renewable sources. Eastman Aventa™ Renew offers an additional layer of   environmental benefits. Aventa Renew contains a   combination of sustainably sourced wood  pulp and certified recycled content,* helping  increase circularity of waste plastics.  Aventa-based products are compostable and  biodegradable. End users can dispose of articles  along with their food waste in composting bins.  Microorganisms recognize Aventa as a food source and  break it""
""down, so it won't remain as microplastics.  The benefits of Aventa don't mean there is a  compromise on performance. Items made with  Aventa look, feel and perform just like their  traditional counterparts, providing the durability and  versatility needed by retailers and end users alike.   *Certified recycled content allocated using ISCC PLUS mass balance. | | | | | | 47 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Aventa™ offers another win-win   for Eastman and partners""
""SEE, formerly known as Sealed Air, launched its  CRYOVAC® brand compostable overwrap tray in  2024. The trays are made from Eastman Aventa™  Renew compostable materials. Aventa Renew is  made from sustainably sourced wood pulp and  certified recycled content.¹ The trays are certified  as both home and industrial compostable.²  The CRYOVAC® trays are designed to be drop- in replacements for traditional polystyrene  foam trays in meat packaging.  “One of the most exciting features of these trays""
""is   that they perform like traditional plastic in a challenging  environment and yet provide an end-of-life solution  through composting,” said Jeff Carbeck, Eastman’s   vice president for corporate innovation and care   solutions technology.   SEE is a valuable partner for many reasons. The company's  industry knowledge, packaging capabilities and  reputation enabled it to quickly develop, commercialize   and promote Aventa Renew-based trays. “Our CRYOVAC® brand compostable overwrap  tray""
""would not be possible without the ingenuity  of the product we use from Eastman,” said  Tiffani Burt, SEE’s executive director for strategic  marketing and sustainability for the Americas.   ¹Certified recycled content allocated using ISCC PLUS mass balance.  ²Industrial composting facilities may not exist in all areas.   CARBON RENEWAL TECHNOLOGY Aventa™ Renew partnerships | | | | | | 48 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  MAINSTREAMING CIRCULARITY Innovating and""
""collaborating  for a circular  economy | | | | | | 49 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Jason Pierce Senior Associate Technical Leader  (he/him/his) INNOVATING AND COLLABORATING FOR A CIRCULAR ECONOMY National recognition for our work in circularity Engineer built a career that aligns with his passion for the environment Project Balanced earns Foundry's CIO 100 award Eastman’s Jason Pierce is recognized as one of the world’s  top experts in life cycle assessment""
""(LCA), which analyzes  the potential environmental impacts of a product. “At first, it was sort of a side project. But over  time, it really opened my eyes to where the world  was heading in terms of the need for a circular  Eastman’s Project Balanced digital innovation earned  a 2024 CIO 100 award from Foundry, which celebrates  organizations that are using  information technology  in innovative ways to deliver business value. “The award-winning teams share a passion for excellence,  a""
""customer-centric mindset, and a drive to invest in  technologies that elevate business value,” said Elizabeth  Cutler, content director, CIO 100 Symposium & Awards. economy and how important carbon footprint  was going to be in this new world, Pierce said. Pierce received the 2023 Corporate LCA Leadership  Award from the American Center for Life Cycle  Assessment, one of the highest professional  honors in his field. Eastman uses LCA to improve  processes and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It""
""also provides data to customers to empower them  to make more sustainable material choices.  Project Balanced is a digital innovation that tracks the  amount of waste material we bring in, how much recycled  material we generate through molecular recycling,  and how much certified recycled content is available  using mass balance through ISCC, the International  Sustainability & Carbon Certification. This is done in a  transparent and easily auditable way that allows for the  rapid scale-up of""
""Eastman’s molecular recycling efforts. “Jason’s work has been so important. He started the  practice of LCA at Eastman back in 2008, trained all of our  practitioners, and oversaw its transformation from a niche  tool to something that underpins the value proposition  of our circular technologies and guides our corporate  decarbonization journey,” said Fred Colhoun, group  leader of circular economy and life cycle assessment. Read more. “This recognition is a testament to the hard  work and""
""dedication of our team in leveraging  innovative digital solutions to drive business value  and make a positive impact not only on Eastman  but on the world,” said Aldo Noseda, Eastman  vice president and chief information officer. Aldo Noseda Vice President and Chief Information Officer  (he/him/his) | | | | | | 50 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  REDUCING WASTE Working with regional partners to make a difference Food City, Eastman team up to recycle Recycling""
""at airport  takes flight  Eastman is committed to helping the world build a   circular economy — and that commitment starts in the   communities where we work and live. Through efforts   with community partners in East Tennessee, we are   working to reduce waste and increase recycling of   products that, for too long, have been used once   and thrown away.  A great example of a partnership came in spring  2024, when Eastman and regional grocer Food City  officially launched their new Shop,""
""Recycle, Repeat  recycling program in Kingsport, Tennessee, which  helps fulfill community needs for recycling. Steve Smith, Food City’s CEO, was among those who   brought a bag of plastic from home the first day the   recycling bin was ready.  “We had people bring bag upon bag of plastic,” said   Jacquelyn Keeney, a circular economy project leader   at Eastman. Keeney was a member of an Eastman team that worked  with Food City counterparts to bring plastic recycling  to Kingsport. In the first""
""month, the early community  response was overwhelming. “We collected a lot of  plastic — 3,000 pounds in the first month,” Kenney said.  We are working with Tri-Cities Airport, a regional  airport that serves Northeast Tennessee, to collect  plastic through strategically placed recycling bins  throughout the airport. These new bins give travelers  the opportunity to recycle plastic bottles and food  containers, which will be sorted and processed at  our new molecular recycling facility. Read""
""more.  How the recycling program works   Three Food City stores in Kingsport have large recycling   bins that are clearly wrapped with Shop, Recycle, Repeat   information and a QR code that connects to a website   with recycling locations, demonstration videos, FAQs   and more.   Eastman will use a wide range of hard-to-recycle plastic  packaging to feed its new molecular recycling plant in  Kingsport, one of the largest in the world.   Changing the future of recycling   Food City has a growing""
""Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  REDUCING WASTE Collaboration with Goodwill for community impact Marsha Edwards searched everywhere for a  Kingsport, Tennessee, partner that could take  Eastman’s cardboard and bale it for recycling. Our  monthly volume — up to 120 tons — of cardboard  was more than local balers could handle. Then Goodwill Industries of Tenneva Area,  Inc. knocked on Eastman’s door.  Goodwill already partnered with Eastman to recycle  clothing and other textiles that""
""could not be sold,  but the nonprofit organization also had three  cardboard balers. That’s why Goodwill approached  Eastman with an offer to bale cardboard.   The partnership began in April, when Eastman donated  its inaugural shipment of cardboard to Goodwill for  processing. The bales are transported on Goodwill’s  sustainability truck to pulp and paper manufacturer  Domtar, also located in Kingsport, for recycling.  “Through this collaboration, we’re also lowering  our carbon emissions,”""
""job opportunities it brings,” said Morris  Baker, president and CEO of Goodwill Industries of  Tenneva. “This partnership and its achievements aren't  just about cardboard recycling. It's about creating  pathways to success and making a tangible difference  in people's lives. We see that in the success of Goodwill  employees and the benefit this three-company  partnership has on our community’s sustainability.”  Reducing waste and creating job opportunities   through Kingsport partnerships""
""Marsha Edwards  Senior Environmental Representative  (she/her/hers)  “We had to find a solution  for all our cardboard. With  our previous recycling  partner closed, finding a  baler became a top priority  to keep cardboard out of the  landfill and stay true to our  sustainability commitments. | | | | | | 52 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Mitigating  climate change Governance Eastman’s climate strategy and goals are guided by our climate  policy and managed""
""through our corporate sustainability  governance structure. That includes a decarbonization  platform, environmental impact sub-council and other  working groups, with oversight by an Eastman executive  team-led Sustainability Council and board of directors. Strategy Our sights are set on carbon neutrality by 2050. We plan to get  there through energy efficiency, increased use of renewable  energy and emerging technologies. And we’ll continue  to innovate, design and scale sustainable solutions.""
""Business risk/opportunity Climate-related risks and opportunities are addressed through  our emerging issues management system, which is integrated  into our corporate sustainability governance structure through  the economic impact sub-council. Risks and opportunities  with substantive strategic impact are incorporated into  decision-making at the corporate and business level.  Metrics and progress We continuously seek to increase transparency around  our climate performance and progress. One""
""way we hold  ourselves accountable is by annually reporting and publishing  our climate metrics through the CDP questionnaire.  | | | | | | 53 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Carbon  neutrality A l t e r n a t i v e   t e c h n o l o g i e s R e n e w a bl e  e n e r g y En er gy  e ff ici en cy Pr oc es s  tr an sf or m at io n MITIGATING CLIMATE CHANGE Our path to carbon neutrality Eastman is committed to doing our part to mitigate  climate change and reach""
""carbon neutrality by 2050. Our decarbonization pathway has yielded consistent  progress. We have reduced our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse  gas (GHG) emissions by 22.3% from our base year. Our strategy includes near-term and longer-term   actions geared toward achievement of that goal.   The critical path to our target requires focus on energy  efficiency, increasing use of renewable energy,   process transformation and deployment of   alternative technologies. Eastman has a comprehensive""
""decarbonization platform  governance structure, with a steering team of executive  leaders across multiple functions within the organization  to ensure progress toward our Scopes 1 and 2 targets  as well as understanding our Scope 3 emissions and  developing engagement strategies toward reduction.  And we’re committed to innovate to provide products  that enable energy savings and GHG reduction down  our value chains, carrying through to the consumer  level. Our molecular recycling technologies""
""are an  example of this commitment and demonstrate our  innovation to develop and transform processes to  reduce GHG emissions and increase circularity.  Following are examples of near-term and long- term actions that are elements of our Scopes 1  and 2 decarbonization strategy. We invite you  to read the following pages to learn more. Near-term actions:   Execute ongoing portfolio of solutions Decarbonization strategy Long-term actions:   Evaluate and execute transformational projects • Energy""
""efficiency      Our early progress on climate relies heavily on energy      efficiency, where we have received multiple ENERGY      STAR® and Department of Energy awards. • Process transformation     Development and execution of transformative changes      in our processes are reducing carbon footprint.  • Renewable energy     By 2030, 100% of our purchased electricity in     North America and Europe will be renewable. • Alternative technologies     Technologies such as thermal batteries and""
""carbon      capture, utilization and sequestration (CCUS)      are essential to achieve decarbonization. • Convert steam boilers to lower-emission fuel • Optimize combined heat and power       via advanced modeling  • Focus on energy efficiency • Procure additional renewable energy • Electrify process heat through      utilization of thermal batteries • Electrify suitable process heat loads • Increase use of low-carbon chemical feedstocks • Implement carbon capture, utilization      and""
""sequestration (CCUS) • Increase use of low- to no-emission     fuel for generating process heat • Execute targeted process transformation • Deploy emerging technologies | | | | | | 54 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  CARBON NEUTRALITY Decarbonization overview Progress on climate strategy provides a path to achieving our goals. Decarbonizing industry is critical to mitigating  climate change. That’s why we’re committed  to achieving our ambitious climate goals.  ""
""Guided by the Eastman climate policy, we continue  along the path to reach our goal of achieving  carbon neutrality for our Scope 1 and Scope 2  greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 2050. Our  near-term target is a 32% reduction of these  emissions by 2030, from a 2017 base year.  Our climate strategy includes multiple elements and  is underpinned by our world-class expertise in energy  efficiency and our development and application of  innovative technologies. Eastman’s molecular recycling  is""
""reducing waste and producing new materials with a  lower carbon footprint. We’re also adopting cutting-edge  technologies, such as our plan to combine solar energy  with thermal batteries at the molecular recycling facility  we plan to build in Longview, Texas.    Our climate policy has three commitments.  1. We will develop material solutions to  address climate change challenges.  Molecular recycling is revolutionizing material innovation  by giving new life to products that were once""
""relegated  to incineration or landfill. Our recycling also produces  new materials with a lower carbon footprint. Molecular  recycling reduces reliance on fossil resources and  yields intermediates with 20%–50% fewer GHGs than  heritage processes. Our Longview molecular recycling  facility will be able to produce recycled materials that  are indistinguishable from virgin with up to 90% fewer  greenhouse gas emissions, including avoided emissions,  than materials made from fossil feedstocks.  2.""
""We will reduce our carbon footprint, build resiliency  measures, and manage climate risks and opportunities.  The production of new materials at our molecular recycling  facility in Longview will be made possible by adopting  next-generation clean energy technology — thermal  batteries. Their deployment — at a scale never seen before  in our industry — is part of our plan to increase our use of  renewable energy so 100% of our purchased electricity in  North America and Europe will be from""
""renewable sources  by 2030. Our European sites are leading the way, with  three locations already sourcing 100% of their purchased  electricity from renewables. Our monumental investment  in molecular recycling and thermal batteries at Longview  has put that site on a similar trajectory. As we continue to  leverage energy efficiency across our global manufacturing  sites, we’re working to source more low-to-no-GHG energy.  (Continued on following page.)   We will pursue strategic partnerships""
""and initiatives to advance the  understanding of climate change to  bring forward innovative solutions.  3. We will reduce our carbon footprint,  build resiliency measures and manage  climate risks and opportunities. 2. We will develop material solutions to  address climate change challenges.  1. | | | | | | 55 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  CARBON NEUTRALITY Decarbonization overview (continued) •    We are members of the Center for Climate &  Energy Solutions""
""(C2ES) as part of its Business  Environmental Leadership Council. C2ES works to  secure a safe and stable climate by accelerating the  transition to net-zero greenhouse gas emissions  and a thriving, just and resilient economy.  •     We are members of the Renewable Thermal  Collaborative (RTC), a global coalition for companies,  institutions and governments committed to  scaling up renewable heating and cooling at their  facilities. Renewable thermal heating and cooling  could dramatically cut""
""carbon emissions, and the  collaborative recognizes the growing necessity for  sustainable, cost-competitive solutions at scale.  •    Eastman is a participating member of the DOE- funded organization Electrified Processes for  Industry Without Carbon. Known as EPIXC and  based at Arizona State University, this public- private partnership was formed to drive significant  decarbonization of the industrial sector using clean  electricity with cost-effective, high-impact solutions.  • We are an""
""ENERGY STAR® partner and participate  in the ENERGY STAR® industrial program.  3. We will pursue strategic partnerships and  initiatives to advance the understanding of climate  change to bring forward innovative solutions.  In pursuit of solutions aligned with climate science, we  are working with others around the world — industry  peers, government entities, NGOs, policymakers  — to leverage and improve existing solutions  and develop innovations as part of our climate  strategy. Following""
""are some of these efforts.  •       We are members of Together for Sustainability and  collaborated with the chemical industry to bring  harmonization and transparency to product carbon  footprints through the publication of a new standard.  • We are piloting SiGREEN, a software tool developed  by Siemens for Together for Sustainability  for the purposes of sharing product carbon  footprints up and down the value chain.   • Our program manager of global natural resources,  Sharon Nolen, was""
""chosen by the U.S. secretary of  energy to chair the Industrial Technology Innovation  Advisory Committee. This Department of Energy  (DOE) committee  advises the secretary of energy  on the Industrial Emissions Reductions Technology  Development Program, which is focused on  greenhouse gas emissions reductions in industry. •     Through our membership in the Better Climate  Challenge, a DOE initiative — as well as through  ENERGY STAR® — we share energy-saving strategies  with industry peers""
""and other members.  •     We collaborated with Sphera® on the development of  its LCA automation software. Sphera is a leading global  provider of ESG performance and risk management  software, data and consulting services, and its LCA  automation solution quickly delivers holistic, real-time  analysis and insights into the environmental footprint  of a company’s product portfolios. The tool can help  businesses more effectively reduce GHG emissions at  every step of production, from design to""
""assembly.  | | | | | | 56 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  CARBON NEUTRALITY Energy efficiency Energy efficiency is the backbone for  progress toward climate goals   Our expertise and continued energy efficiency  improvements are the foundation for our climate   progress. From our baseline year, we’ve reduced our   Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions by   22.3%. Much of our gains have come from leveraging   this area.  Around the globe, we have 45 active""
""energy   efficiency projects. We also share best practices with industry peers and  organizations such as the U.S. Department of Energy’s  Better Plants and EPA’s Industrial ENERGY STAR®  programs — and continue to receive recognition.   ACC Energy Efficiency Award  For its 2024 Responsible Care Awards, the American  Chemistry Council recognized three projects at our  Kingsport site with ACC Energy Efficiency Awards.  One project received an exceptional merit distinction. In fall 2023, DMT""
""steam usage  required to maintain the column profile by 12.8%.    ENERGY STAR® Top Project Award  Also in Kingsport, ENERGY STAR® cited our work in  2023 for reducing energy demand for air cooling.  By converting a large powerhouse to natural gas, we  needed less airflow through industrial fans. Engineers  installed variable frequency drives that cut the amount of  time fan motors would run at full speed, reducing energy  demand by 1.6 megawatts and saving equivalent to the  amount of""
""electricity typically used in 1,500 homes a year. 1,500 equivalent homes'   annual electricity use 15%  energy intensity reduction   for the process 12.8% in steam usage ACC   Energy Efficiency Award  ENERGY STAR®   Top Project Award   Gains in   Ghent | | | | | | 57 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Engineers across Eastman continue working to improve  energy efficiency and reduce our GHG emissions  through development of process transformation  projects,""
""employing renewable energy options,  and exploring and evaluating breakthrough energy  technologies. Through our global operation excellence  program, an energy workstream team is working  directly with senior leaders to develop and deliver  solutions to further strengthen energy efficiency.  While Eastman’s operations are energy intensive, we  generate a significant portion of our energy using  combined heat and power, or cogeneration. Electricity  produced by cogeneration plants in Kingsport,""
""Tennessee,  and Longview, Texas, is approximately twice as efficient  as purchasing electricity from a utility with conventional  power stations and generating required steam separately.  CARBON NEUTRALITY Energy efficiency (continued)   Gains in Ghent  At our Ghent North facility in Belgium, we launched  an energy efficiency project in 2021 to realize  gains from digital manufacturing, utilizing various  process information tools to provide insight on how  to impact energy consumption and""
""optimize our  processes. By fall 2023, the project had resulted in  a 15% reduction in energy intensity for the process  (unit of energy per unit of product). With this large  process making up 70% of the site’s total energy use,  the overall site’s energy intensity was reduced 10%.  Throughout our EMEA region, more than 50 climate   and energy improvement projects are in the pipeline.   Most of those projects focus on energy efficiency;   others relate to renewable energy or process""
""improvement.   | | | | | | 58 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Neil Brown Senior Chemical Engineer  (he/his/him) By incorporating thermal batteries fed by renewable  energy, Eastman will be able to process hard-to-recycle  polyester waste and produce new materials with up  to 90% reduced carbon emissions including avoided  emissions, compared to fossil virgin production.   Neil Brown is an Eastman engineer who is a  leader in assessing renewable energy. “This can""
""be a true game-changer for providing low- or  zero-carbon power for industrial processes,” Brown said.  “Anywhere there are great needs for process heat —  and Eastman uses a lot of heat to power our processes  — thermal batteries seem like the solution because  you’re able to store heat for so long with so little loss.”  Learn more New developments provide a sightline to our goal  Renewable energy is an essential part of our strategy to  mitigate climate change, and we have established a 2030""
""goal that 100% of our purchased power in North America  and Europe will be from renewable sources. Key projects  over the past 12 months are foundational to increasing  renewables in our portfolio as we move toward 2030.   European sites showing the way  Driven by procurement teams in the Europe, Middle  East and Africa (EMEA) region with input from  EMEA sites, we’re making significant progress.  Two sites in Europe are sourcing all their purchased  electricity from renewable sources: Newport,""
""Wales,  and Oulu, Finland. Our Finland site began dramatically  increasing its use of green energy in 2019 and no longer  uses fossil fuels for electricity generation. Our Newport  site draws part of its electricity from wind energy.       Cutting-edge power for Texas facility  Industrial processes typically require a lot of electricity. Decarbonizing industry is necessary — but far from  simple. We’re taking a leadership role on climate  with the molecular recycling facility we’re building  in""
""Longview, Texas. That's where we'll decarbonize  the process heat needed for our facility by building  the largest thermal battery project in our industry.   Eastman plans to partner with Rondo Energy, which  develops and deploys heat battery technology that can  power large-scale industrial processes with zero-carbon  heat. Rondo Heat Batteries are modular units containing  thousands of tons of brick and coils of metal, much like  those in the toaster on your kitchen counter. The batteries""
""transform intermittent renewable power — in Eastman’s  case, much of it from new, on site solar — into heat in  excess of 1,000°C. The brick batteries can store massive  amounts of heat for up to 24 hours with very little loss.    CARBON NEUTRALITY Renewable energy Projects in Europe and Texas highlight progress Neil Brown (below) is encouraged about  next-generation energy technologies,  like thermal batteries (above). | | | | | | 59 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy""
""Summary  Eastman’s EMEA region   accelerates climate progress  Our sites in the EMEA region have already achieved  significant climate targets. Eastman’s EMEA locations  have achieved a 32% reduction in greenhouse gas  emissions from a 2017 base year, drawing on a range  of projects across multiple sites with gains in energy  efficiency, renewable energy and process improvement.  With a focus on energy efficiency and renewable  electricity, EMEA continues to identify more  reduction""
""opportunities as we look toward 2030. “Our teams in the region take pride in showing leadership  in Eastman’s overall climate strategy, while also aligning  with the ambitious targets set by the European Union  and the United Kingdom,” said Camille De Moor,  manager of sustainability strategic initiatives in EMEA. CARBON NEUTRALITY EMEA climate progress Camille De Moor  Manager of Sustainability Strategic Initiatives  (she/her/hers)  Eastman’s EMEA locations   have achieved a 32%  reduction in""
""greenhouse  gas emissions “Everyone knows the stakes  in mitigating climate change,  so teams and individuals  throughout EMEA are  putting forth effort to  make a difference.” | | | | | | 60 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  CARBON NEUTRALITY Electrification of EMEA company lease car fleet Vehicle transition will reduce  CO2 impact for EMEA fleet  Leaders in our EMEA region began transitioning  company vehicles to hybrid and electric vehicles.  The process began""
""Jan. 1, 2024, when the company  started letting its leases for gasoline-powered cars  expire, said Harold de Kruijf, Eastman’s total rewards  lead for EMEA. Going forward, all company-leased cars  in the EMEA region will be gasoline plug-in hybrid or  fully electric, resulting in a reduction in CO2 emissions.  “In discussions between HR and EMEA leadership, it  became clear that we needed to and could support  the sustainability goals of the company by making  a next step in the electrification""
""of our car fleet,” he  said. “As a company committed to global excellence in  environmental stewardship, caring for the environment  remains a crucial part of our legacy, culture and brand.”  Nations throughout Western and Central Europe   including Germany, France, Spain and the United   Kingdom will require all new cars sold to be   zero-emission vehicles by 2035. As part of our climate strategy, we are exploring increased  EVs in our vehicle fleets in other global regions. The company’s EMEA""
""fleet of  270 cars  should complete the  transition by the end of 2028  as leases expire. | | | | | | 61 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  CARBON NEUTRALITY U.S. Secretary of Energy chooses Sharon Nolen to lead climate committee Applying sustainability life lessons to the greater good Sharon Nolen started learning about sustainable  living long before she could drive a car. Though  she didn’t have a license, that didn’t keep her  from learning how to safely drive""
""a tractor at age  12. She learned that skill along with others — like  tending the garden and bottle-feeding a calf — on  the Middle Tennessee farm her family owned.  Those lessons framed Nolen’s perspective on  sustainability and still influence her perspective as  manager of global natural resources management  for Eastman. As an expert on energy and water, Nolen  is a key leader in Eastman’s strategy to mitigate  climate change. Now, she’s lending her expertise to  influence positive change""
""across the U.S. industrial  sector. Nolen was chosen by the secretary of energy  to chair the Industrial Technology Innovation  Advisory Committee. This Department of Energy  (DOE) committee advises the secretary of energy  on the Industrial Emissions Reductions Technology  Development Program, which is focused on  greenhouse gas emissions reductions in industry. The  committee will provide a report to Congress in 2025. We are making progress on our own climate  strategy with the goal of carbon""
""neutrality by 2050.  From her formative years to now, sustainability  has always been personal for Nolen — and  now the stakes are even higher for her.  “I have a new granddaughter, and I think about  her a lot with the work that we do,” Nolen said.  “I want her to have the same opportunities to  enjoy nature and the world around her. We need  to act today to create that bright future.”  Read more. Sharon Nolen  Fellow, Global Natural Resources Management  (she/her/hers)  “Our company is""
""committed  to reducing our own carbon  footprint and developing  innovative products that can  help our customers reduce  their carbon footprint. One of  the core values of Eastman’s  view of sustainability is  that the value we create  must be greater than the  resources we consume.” | | | | | | 62 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Our approach to Scope 3 emissions Of the three types of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions  established by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol,""
""Scope 3  emissions are by far the most complex. These indirect  emissions occur throughout an organization’s value  chain and cover a wide spectrum. All GHG emissions  that are not Scope 1 (emissions from your own sources,  such as generation of on-site power and process  emissions) or Scope 2 (purchased energy such as steam  and electricity) are considered Scope 3 emissions. So  this broad set includes emissions generated by the  materials you purchase from suppliers and the emissions  from""
""transporting those goods, emissions from your  own products and distribution of them, and emissions  generated by use of your products and their end of life.     We’re committed to establishing a process that enables  rigorous calculations of these emissions throughout our  value chain, which can enable us to establish a firm 2023  baseline in 2024. As part of our Scope 3 strategy, we are  partnering with an external consultant with deep Scope 3  expertise to assist in our progress toward""
""establishing   that baseline emissions inventory. In addition to our  baseline inventory work, we are devoting additional  resources and maintain a cross-functional working  team to identify our strengths and opportunities  across all material Scope 3 categories. We are also focusing on better understanding upstream  Scope 3 emissions most directly in our control, such as  purchased goods and services. We are early adopters  of a new technology to help advance our visibility of  Scope 3. Eastman""
""is collaborating with Siemens, the  developer of new software called SiGREEN, to verify  carbon footprint data throughout the supply chain  through our membership in Together for Sustainability.  SiGREEN will give Eastman a better understanding of  our upstream carbon footprint. The program will also  enable Eastman to share our product carbon footprint  data with customers for their Scope 3 tracking.   DECARBONIZATION Scope 3 | | | | | | 63 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society""
""Strategy Summary  MITIGATING CLIMATE CHANGE Water and  biodiversity | | | | | | 64 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Water stewardship is fundamental to effective, ethical  solutions that mitigate climate change. With the  growing global population translating to an overall  increase in water use, we remain laser-focused on  how we use, reuse and conserve water at our sites.   Eastman’s water policy guides our company’s consistent  focus on stewardship of this""
""vital natural resource. This  policy captures our commitment to optimize resource  management and collaborate with others. By partnering  with organizations, industry peers and academia, we  make improvements to our own processes and water  stewardship while sharing what we learn with others.  The following are some of the programs that illustrate   our approach and progress.  As part of our overall program for good natural  resources stewardship, we continue to assess water  use at Eastman""
""sites, especially those in water-stressed  regions or where freshwater withdrawals are high.  We are committed to sound stewardship of this vital natural resource These Water Body Risk Assessments (WBRAs) are  part of an American Chemistry Council program to  demonstrate responsible water stewardship and help  companies identify opportunities for improvement.   We have completed four WBRAs and will have  completed six by the end of 2024, meeting our  goal, established in 2022, of two each year.""
""We are participating in two projects that are part of  the National Alliance for Water Innovation (NAWI),  a program that brings together academic and  industry partners to research and improve processes  for water use. NAWI is a public-private partnership  supported by the U.S. Department of Energy.  At two Eastman sites — Indian Orchard in Massachusetts  and Ghent North in Belgium — we are developing an  analysis tool to facilitate advanced water treatment  technologies for alternative water""
""sources. At Ghent  North, we completed an analysis to optimize the use of  the canal water reverse osmosis system with the goal  to reduce use of municipal water. The University of  Texas at Austin is the academic leader of this project.  Eastman's second NAWI project — at our site in  Kingsport, Tennessee, and led by Lawrence Berkeley  National Laboratory — is designed to reduce  water consumption. We are researching the use  of quantitative modeling to optimize treatment of  water to make""
""demineralized water used in boilers.  Eastman is providing funding to nonprofit organization  The Electric Power Research Institute for a project  to compare two industrial cooling alternatives. This  project will develop a framework to evaluate whether  retrofitting once-through cooling to closed-cycle  cooling would have positive environmental and social  impacts. Emissions, the use of chemicals, energy, water,  and water stress, and the health and safety of the  surrounding community will be""
""taken into consideration.  WATER Water stewardship | | | | | | 65 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  BIODIVERSITY Enhancing environments in our communities Mexico City team engages in reforestation campaign Colleagues from Eastman's Mexico City office planted  more than 50 trees at Xochimilco Ecological Park in a  reforestation campaign. Together with friends and family  members, they made a tangible impact on the local  environment while fostering a sense of""
""camaraderie.  The event was organized by Eastman’s health, safety,  environment and security and facilities teams in  Biodiversity allows ecosystems to function  properly, and it includes all organisms  across different terrains such as air,  water and land. It’s also influenced by  environmental conditions, including  pollution, disturbances and land loss.  Ultimately, biodiversity is an indicator for  the quality of the environment. At Eastman,  we recognize that sustaining biodiversity is  a""
""part of maintaining our right to operate. Mexico City in collaboration with the Mexico Secretary  of Environment and the Directorate of Protected  Natural Areas and Areas of Environmental Value.  Both are governmental agencies in the country.  Local tree species such as colorín, huizaches, guajes and  fresnos mexicanos were successfully planted to enhance  forest coverage and restore degraded ecosystems. Kuantan colleagues advance environmental awareness   As part of its corporate responsibility""
""initiative, Eastman’s   Kuantan site participated in an eco-rafting challenge   organized by Balok River Adoption Program (BRAP) in   Kuantan, Malaysia.  With more than 200 participants, the program — an  environmental awareness outreach initiative sponsored  by chemical companies in Kuantan — featured  mangrove sapling planting, beach cleaning and the  inauguration of a renovated fishermen’s hut. The event  also included activities like a fish hatchling release,  children's coloring contest,""
""e-waste collection and used  cooking oil collection. The program’s purpose was to  enhance community awareness in the Gebeng Industrial  Estate, with collaborative support from the Malaysian  Department of Environment (DOE) and SWCorp.  The initiative aligns with Responsible Care®, a global  voluntary program focused on improving safety,  health and environmental performance. Eastman  has been a Responsible Care member for more  than 35 years. Since its establishment in 2007, BRAP  — supported""
""by companies like Eastman — has  organized various programs such as raft races, river  cleanups, educational talks, exhibitions and initiatives  for fish releases and mangrove tree planting. Other  participants included BASF, Kaneka and Polyplastics.  As part of our commitment to Operation  Clean Sweep Blue, we have no   reportable plastic pellet loss in 2024.  Learn more about Operation Clean Sweep.  | | | | | | 66 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  BIODIVERSITY""
""elementary schools.  Eastman was one of the organizations that  contributed grant funding for the gardens.  For two years, Brown, who specializes in life  cycle assessment, recruited about 50 colleagues  to contribute a few hours on evenings or  Saturdays to the gardening project.  The gardens are now populated with native perennial  plants that provide food and habitat for a broad  range of animal species — butterflies, moths and  bees, birds and even bats — that pollinate plants  and trees""
""critical for a healthy ecosystem.  Craig Leonberg, one of the Eastman volunteers for  the pollinator project, is an Eastman mechanical  engineer who works on our decarbonization strategy.  “Even if I’m not able to explain all the details of what  I do at Eastman to my kids, they understand that  what we’re doing is protecting the environment,”  Leonberg said. “And now they can see a project on  a different scale that’s also about the environment.  This is a way for students to get involved at an""
""early  age, learn about life cycles and biodiversity, and start  thinking about what they can do to have a positive  impact when they grow up. It’s all connected.”  Read more. | | | | | | 67 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Caring for  society Governance Eastman has executive and senior-level oversight and governance across the  functions of inclusion and diversity,, health, safety and wellness, and social  impact with meetings by the people and society sub-""
""Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  CARING FOR SOCIETY Zero-incident mindset | | | | | | 69 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  ZERO-INCIDENT MINDSET Q&A with Brian Long, VP, global health, safety and environment (GHSE) Eastman has seen a step change in our safety targets  and performance since you joined the company  in 2022. What was the turning point, and what has  the journey been like for the last two years?   I believe in the""
""boost asset integrity.  What specific actions did you take? We raised expectations for people leaders to be in  the field and increased and improved safety and  leadership training across our manufacturing sites. Brian Long   Vice President, Global Health,  Safety and Environment (GHSE)  (he/him/his)  We placed stronger emphasis on hazard  recognition and control, including increased  safety audits and observations.  We identified an annual distraction cycle to help teams  increase and improve""
""Eastman’s journey to HSE excellence?  Success rests on continuous learning, so where we’re  going isn’t shifting dramatically from where we’ve been  over the last 24 months. We will continue to harness  adversity to become ever better. We have more work to  do, but I’m excited about the trajectory we’re now on.  And I’m confident we have the right strategy in place to  become a company wholeheartedly committed to zero. Learn more. | | | | | | 70 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society""
""•  Performs hazard assessments for 100% of products (process is thoroughly       documented in our chemical management policy)    • Systematically reviews the intended use of all Eastman’s products   Eastman’s PSRA program actively pursues third-party certifications for  sustainable products in markets that value an independent perspective  on Eastman’s holistic approach to chemical management. We both  adhere to governmental requirements and conduct voluntary initiatives  to drive a sustainable""
""portfolio. These include but are not limited to:    • Adhering to the Responsible Care® Product Safety Code    • Supporting and adhering to international chemical control laws    • Identifying substances of concern    • Performing hazard assessments    •  Assessing chemical substances manufactured or processed as       nanoscale materials    • Ensuring responsible raw material sourcing    • Protecting animal welfare    •  Implementing the Globally Harmonized System of       Classification and""
""Labelling of Chemicals    Eastman produces a wide range of products that have a significant impact on our  daily lives. The following pages showcase a few examples of the many products  that prioritize the well-being of society through safe and sustainable solutions. “Our approach to  sustainability, circularity and  safety is ingrained in the  products we create and our  manufacturing processes. We  believe it's our responsibility to  develop innovative products  and applications that make a""
""positive impact on everyday  lives and enhance the  quality of life worldwide.” Brett Sago  Director, HSE Legal Services and PSRA  (he/his/him)  | | | | | | 71 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Auto window films can increase shade, safety  After-market window films can add an element  of style to automobiles. LLumar® automotive  window tint is one of the world’s best-known  brands, renowned for outstanding quality, color  stability and durable, scratch-resistant""
""coating. But when it comes to Eastman performance films  — the Eastman division that produces LLumar,  SunTek® and V-KOOL® window tints — there’s more  to it than aesthetics and staving off scratches. They  also provide protection from ultraviolet rays. The factory glass in most vehicles won’t fully  block the sun’s UV rays, and prolonged exposure  can damage your skin. LLumar blocks up to  99% of harmful UV rays, helping keep you and  your passengers safer from sun damage. ZERO-INCIDENT MINDSET""
""It ensures  higher image quality and  enhances road safety by minimizing distractions and  providing clear, accurate information to the driver. Solar and acoustic formulations can also be integrated  with Horizon LVID PVB interlayers. This creates a  quieter and more comfortable cabin experience,  provides UV protection by blocking more than 99%  of harmful UV radiation and offers solar control to  lower interior vehicle temperatures. These features  promote sustainability by improving energy""
""efficiency,  reducing the need for excessive air conditioning and  providing a more eco-friendly driving environment. Read more to learn about those benefits and others  — including cooler car interiors and added window  safety in the event of an accident — that come  with automotive tint from performance films. | | | | | | 72 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  ZERO-INCIDENT MINDSET Products that enhance lives and increase safety are core to what we do   Eastman""
""Esmeri™: A micropowder for more   sustainable personal care products  Solus™: sustainable solution for a modern staple Consumer demand for clean beauty products has increased  significantly. Along with regulatory pressure, this has prompted  raw material suppliers and brand owners to seek sustainable  solutions. Eastman Esmeri™ cellulose ester micropowder  delivers the necessary performances for personal care  products – while putting sustainability in the forefront, too.  Food and beverages on-""
""the-go are a staple of modern  life, but many brands and consumers are concerned  about the environmental negatives of single-use wrappers  or disposable coffee cups — especially since some  common packaging can’t be recycled or composted. Those hungry for a change can take heart from an Eastman  solution: Solus™ performance additives for paper coatings. Our  additives are inherently sustainable and enable compostability  and recyclability for quick-service restaurant containers and  packaging,""
""while delivering ease of processing for bioplastics  on paper and paperboard. Coatings enabled by Solus serve  up convenience and performance for sustainably oriented  global brands in single-use food-service products. Biodegradable* and sustainable, Esmeri is a material that is free  of microplastics, and one brand owners can leverage to create  high-performance cosmetics friendly to the environment.  We  launched our initial product, Esmeri CC1N10 for color cosmetics,  in summer 2024, and""
""there’s more to come. Esmeri CC1N10  integrates with lipophilic systems, delivering outstanding optical  effects like soft focus, and ensures long-lasting wear properties.   *Biodegradable per regulation (EU) 2023/2055 “Synthetic Polymer Microparticles”    Group 2 compliance  Solus™ enhances sustainability at the beginning of life  with biobased content, and recycled content1 via Eastman  carbon renewal technology. And to provide valuable options  for these food-service products at the end of""
""life, these  Solus™ coatings have earned recycling and repulping  certification along with biodegradable and compostable  certification, helping keep materials out of landfills. Solus™ helps brands meet customer standards for sustainability  and increasingly stringent regulations around circularity without  compromising performance. Read more about Solus™. 1Recycled content using mass balance allocation. | | | | | | 73 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  ZERO-""
""planet. Our  molecular recycling is empowering the healthcare  industry to continue focusing on the best in patient  safety, while contributing to a circular economy. Our collaboration with Pacur, a leading custom sheet  extruder in the medical space, is a good example.    Pacur now uses Eastman Eastar Renew 6763 for its sheet  and roll stock to support the sterile barrier medical  device packaging market. This Eastman Renew material  is indistinguishable from Eastar 6763 copolyester, with  the""
""same durability, performance and safety that is  essential for medical device companies. Eastar Renew  enables Pacur, a more than 40-year-old company based  in Oshkosh, Wisconsin, to certify that plastic waste is  being diverted from landfills to produce new packaging.   “A key element of our innovation agenda is a  commitment to investing in the development of  next-generation sustainability solutions,” said  Jason Eckel, Pacur’s senior vice president of sales  Tritan: trusted for countless""
""safety and performance are vital. Learn why hundreds of companies around the world   trust Tritan as the material that makes a difference   for their products. and marketing. “With the introduction of Pacur  custom sheet and roll stock solutions leveraging  Eastar Renew 6763, Pacur and Eastman are  enabling progress toward a circular economy.”   Pacur's adoption of Eastar Renew 6763 to support sterile  barrier packaging products is enabled by Pacur’s ISCC  PLUS-certified facility. ISCC,""
""International Sustainability  & Carbon Certification, is a third-party certification  system that is recognized around the globe for tracking  sustainable feedstocks through supply chains.   Read more.   | | | | | | 74 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  ZERO-INCIDENT MINDSET Products that enhance lives and increase safety are core to what we do (continued)   Tetrashield™ delivers safer can coatings Eastman Tetrashield protective resin systems help  keep food and""
""beverage cans safe by enabling  coatings for aluminum cans that in which bisphenol  A (BPA) is not intentionally added as an ingredient  (BPA-NI). BPA is a chemical used to manufacture  some plastics and coatings, but Tetrashield delivers  added safety through BPA-NI can coatings that  are an alternative to epoxy coatings for cans.   Tetrashield is a good fit for all pantry staples in cans.   Learn more about how we exceeded expectations   for one can formulator. EastaPure™ provides the purity""
""semiconductors, as well as  orders-of-magnitude productivity gains for all uses in  society. Additionally, UHP solvents significantly reduce  wafer yield loss by removing particles and impurities  during a cleaning step, resulting in less electronic waste. | | | | | | 75 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  CARING FOR SOCIETY Inclusive  culture | | | | | | 76 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  INCLUSIVE CULTURE Strategic pillars build""
""inclusion and diversity powers innovation by our global team | | | | | | 77 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  INCLUSIVE CULTURE Explaining the value of Eastman’s new inclusion scorecard In 2024, Eastman adopted an inclusion scorecard that counts toward one-third of the company’s strategic measures in our short- term incentive (bonus) program. It measures progress in three key areas: inclusion and engagement perceptions, talent trends for  those in leadership and""
""fairly and consistently across the board to include  underrepresented groups. Taking these actions —  and succeeding — will translate to rewarding careers  where every person can realize their full potential. | | | | | | 78 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Global survey: amplifying voices, driving inclusion We value open dialogue at Eastman. That’s why  we asked the Eastman global team to provide their  feedback in a survey conducted in spring 2024.  The team""
""assignments to champion  clear pathways for professional growth •        Leveraging our mission and vision, so team members  are inspired and associate how the contributions  of all team members support Eastman values,  environmental stewardship, positive community  impact and our innovation growth strategy At Eastman, we are deeply committed to creating an  exceptional workplace and contributing to a greater  purpose: enhancing the quality of life in meaningful  ways, said Adrian Holt, senior""
""team. | | | | | | 79 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  INCLUSIVE CULTURE Global engagement I&D Week 2024: united in purpose Hyderabad offers abundant opportunities to belong In 2024, we hosted our second annual I&D Week,  “United in Purpose,” with each Eastman region  holding its own events to allow for the celebration  of unique cultural nuances and to provide the  opportunity to address local challenges. Our team members at the Hyderabad operations  center in""
""Display of Equality and Freedom. Team members around the world participate in numerous events and activities throughout  the year to drive inclusion and diversity. Here is a snapshot of global engagement at Eastman. | | | | | | 80 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  INCLUSIVE CULTURE Awards and recognition Women MAKE awards laud manufacturing excellence STEM Women of Color recognized The Manufacturing Institute recognized Laura  Bustamante (pictured left) and Wendy""
""and for promoting   an inclusive culture at Eastman. This page offers a snapshot of Eastman   women who are setting a standard for excellence. Learn more about awards   and recognition Eastman has received. | | | | | | 81 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  CARING FOR SOCIETY Eastman  Resource  Groups Eastman Resource Groups (ERGs) build awareness  and understanding of the value and unique qualities  of diverse team member populations. They’re vital to  achieving""
""and Hispanics  to drive innovation and business growth APEX Eastman Resource Group Equality Eastman Resource Group Catalysts Eastman Resource Group EVETS Eastman Resource Group ★ Connect Eastman Resource Group Mosaic Eastman Resource Group | | | | | | 82 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  ERG reach increases around the globe Increasing global I&D visibility has been a key focus   for our company this year, and we’ve made   significant progress. Our efforts to""
""support  each other and share experiences,  fostering a strong sense of  community and providing  encouragement and mentorship. Overall, Catalysts has enriched  my career and empowered me  to contribute meaningfully to  the advancement of women  at Eastman and beyond.” | | | | | | 83 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  INCLUSIVE CULTURE Eastman Resource Groups Valerie R. Lawrence   Global Co-Chair, Connect  (she/her/hers)  “Change can be a positive force,  and I""
""myself and gives me  a chance to feel more at home. I’ve  been involved for two years. The  community of Hispanics and Latinos  is bigger at Eastman than at other  companies I interviewed with, partly  because of Mosaic. I’ve made a lot  of friends. I’ve also gotten involved  with the community and volunteer  as a translator in local schools,  which is something I really enjoy. | | | | | | 84 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  CARING FOR SOCIETY Social   impact | |""
""| | | | 85 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  SOCIAL IMPACT University outreach Collaboration with NC A&T, support of  FOSSI strengthens diversity in STEM As part of our partnership with North Carolina A&T State  University, Eastman hosted 10 African American interns  at our sites in Kingsport, Tennessee, and Martinsville,  Virginia, in 2023. The students represented science,  technology, engineering and math (STEM) programs. Each student was assigned a mentor from""
""will underwrite an additional 10 scholars for the  2025-2028 classes for a total of 80 scholars.   The support of Eastman and other corporate  sponsors has led to a 95% scholar retention rate  of students across more than 30 states. Eastman and other corporate   sponsors’ support has led to a across more than 30 states 95%  scholar retention   rate of students | | | | | | 86 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  SOCIAL IMPACT University outreach Internship program""
""environment at a Fortune 500 company.  “There are no ‘intern projects’ — our students are  assigned to real-world projects that have a direct  impact on company operations,” said Ignacio Garcia,  university relations manager. “These complex projects  can lead to tangible benefits such as improved  processes, new product ideas or strategic insights.” Most interns and co-ops in our college program  work in the summer, though we have students  in spring and fall semesters too. Garcia said the""
""twice as successful as campus recruiting.   Ignacio Garcia  Eastman University Relations Manager  (he/him/his)  “Internships add younger  generations to our team,  providing different perspectives  and new ideas. It also fosters  an inclusive culture, where  team members of all ages can  collaborate and learn from each  other — promoting mutual  respect and understanding.” FPO | | | | | | 87 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Collaborative project between Eastman""
""challenges. For the 2023-24 academic year, engineers Thet Su, Paul  Ojidu and Matt Griffiths at our Newport site supported  students from St. Teilo’s Church in Wales High School.  These students proposed a solution to capture resin  beads from the water treatment system and effluent tanks  to prevent them from being released into waterways. SOCIAL IMPACT Education promoting STEM and nature studies FPO Outdoor learning classroom also serves  as wildlife hub for southern Virginia    Eastman is""
""helping students in southern  Virginia connect with nature through the  Smith River Eco-Learning Station. Eastman Performance Films in Martinsville,  Virginia, partnered with the Dan River Basin  Association (DRBA) to build the station. The  facility serves as an outdoor classroom for regional  students to complement their environmental  knowledge and drive community initiatives. “Teaching our children about the importance of the  environment and conservation is essential,” said  Kristoff""
""Lievens, Eastman performance films site  leader. “We look forward to the many opportunities  this new outdoor classroom will bring to our area.” Eastman and the DRBA began planning the site  in 2018. Work on the learning station pavilion  and interpretive signage finished in fall 2023. Nearly 800 nearby students got a hands-on nature  lesson at the site the following spring through the  Trout in the Classroom program. The students released  trout into the river, having raised them from egg to""
""hatchling while engaging in a stream habitat study. The learning station will also provide public  outdoor space as demand allows and serve  as a river water quality monitoring site. | | | | | | 88 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Eastman U powers continuous development Microburst training promotes rapid I&D learning Eastman U, created in spring of 2024, is an educational  and training initiative that supports continuous learning  and development for our global""
""Sur   Vice President,   Global Head of Talent  (she/her/hers) | | | | | | 89 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Eastman team determined to close  gender gap in invention process A study by the Intellectual Property Owners Association  (IPO) identified a troubling trend for women and science.  Across the materials industry, a gender gap exists in the  intellectual property process. The number of women  involved in the formal patent and invention report process  is""
""input on new incentives.” SOCIAL IMPACT Engaging our global team Over 53% of U.S. Ph.D.s are  awarded to women Only 12% of recognized U.S.  inventors are women | | | | | | 90 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  SOCIAL IMPACT Helping build healthy communities Creating healthy smiles in rural Appalachia  Our founder, George Eastman, established the first  U.S. free dentistry clinic in 1917 to serve children  living below the poverty line in and around Rochester,  New""
""regularly hosted by the  Indian Orchard team. Part of those meetings involves  hearing from community members about ways to help  improve the quality of life in Western Massachusetts. “Our first responders are the first to rush into danger,” Van  Nevel said. “We hope these oximeters will help save lives.” | | | | | | 91 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  SOCIAL IMPACT Learning and commemorating history From Kingsport to Normandy:   Honoring D-Day 80 years later Ten""
""Freedom Prize is our long-term project for young  people between 15 and 25 to think about freedom, and  to encourage and promote those who fight for it,” said  Bertrand Deniaud, vice president of the Normandy region.  | | | | | | 92 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Goals and  progress Goals and progress Eastman has made sustainability integral to our strategy, driven by  innovation and focused always on people. We have the responsibility  and opportunity to lead,""
""joining others to address climate change,  mainstream circularity as an economic model, and build a more  inclusive and equitable world.    As sustainable innovation drives our approach to each of  these topics, we have set collective goals to further embed  sustainability standards into the operating model of our company.  We are dedicated to the integrity of our reporting, celebrating  progress and examining where improvements can be made. Together, we can create A Better Circle. | | | | | |""
""93 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  2023 goals and progress Goal Progress details Mitigating climate change Reduce our absolute greenhouse gas Scope 1 and 2 emissions   by one-third by 2030 to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 We have reduced our absolute Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 22.3% against our 32% goal by 2030, measuring from our 2017 base year. 100% of NAR and Europe purchased electricity will be renewable  by 2030. We have achieved 10% of""
""our renewable energy goal.  Eastman is committed to comprehensively understanding   our Scope 3 footprint and developing a strategy that begins   to address it.  Eastman is continuing on our Scope 3 journey.  We’re committed to establishing a process that enables rigorous calculations of these emissions throughout our value chain, which can enable us to  establish a baseline on 2023 data in 2024. As part of our Scope 3 strategy, we are partnering with an external consultant with deep Scope 3""
""expertise to assist in our progress toward establishing that baseline  emissions inventory. In addition to our baseline inventory work, we are devoting additional resources and maintain a cross-functional working team to identify our strengths and opportunities across all  Scope 3 categories. Innovate to provide products that enable energy savings and  greenhouse gas reduction down our value chains and at the   consumer level  Eastman continues to focus on the sustainability of our innovation""
""pipeline and understanding how our products perform down the value chain. We’re actively investing in capabilities to calculate our  product life cycle assessments, including carbon footprints, efficiently at scale.  We’re participating in a pilot program sponsored by Together for Sustainability (TfS) for a software tool designed to streamline  the communication of product carbon footprints to our customers.  We also engage key customers to develop and review potential decarbonization pathways""
""for selected products. The ability to reduce  carbon emissions downstream of our own manufacturing processes is a key consideration guiding our innovation portfolio and is a strong element in the value proposition of newly launched products such  as Aventa™ compostable materials for single-use food service products.  | | | | | | 94 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Goal Progress details Mainstreaming circularity Recycle more than 500 million pounds (225,000 MT) of""
""plastic  waste annually by 2030 via molecular recycling technologies,  with a commitment to recycle 250 million pounds (110,000 MT)  annually by 2025  Eastman recycled 21.9 million pounds (9,934 MT) of plastic waste in 2023. Eastman began full operation and production of on-spec material of our methanolysis facility for polyester waste in Kingsport,  Tennessee, in March 2024, giving us two complementary molecular recycling technologies. Carbon renewal technology, our other technology, recycles a""
""broader set of mixed plastic waste. Our recycling  volumes have continued to increase year over year, and operation of our new Kingsport facility will significantly increase overall volumes in 2024 and 2025. Catalyze improvement of the recycling system by continuing to  expand capabilities to recycle more complex products and by  participating in initiatives and collaborations to drive increased  collection  Eastman and the University of Tennessee challenged the University of Michigan to break""
""the record for the most waste recycled at a college football game. Fans at each school competed to see who could  recycle the most game day waste in one day. UT and Eastman successfully defended and broke the 2022 record, recycling 44,950 pounds of game day waste.   Eastman participates in the Recycling Partnership's PET Recycling Coalition, which is committed to providing grants to improve PET recycling in the U.S. We are members at the Steering Committee Level  and are contributing $500,000""
""and Keitex feed hygiene enhancer for animal nutrition, biodegradable personal  care micropowder, BPA-free copolyesters for consumer durables and medical applications, window films that increase protection from ultraviolet rays, and sustainable additives in our coatings business such  as Solus, which can enable recyclability for paper products. In 2023, 88% of our growth R&D spend aligned with sustainable macro trends, representing further progress on our 2030 goal. 2023 GOALS AND PROGRESS |""
""CONTINUED | | | | | | 95 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Goal Progress details Process safety Achieve top quartile performance as measured against American  Chemistry Council (ACC) and American Fuel & Petrochemical  Manufacturers (AFPM) companies  Following a significant, positive shift in safety performance the second half of 2022, we set aggressive targets for 2023. For recordable injuries, the targets were 30% of the 2022 injury totals.    In year-over-year""
""committed to our vision of becoming a resilient HSE culture that is deeply committed to zero and explores, learns and continually improves.  2023 GOALS AND PROGRESS | CONTINUED | | | | | | 96 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Goal Progress details Environmental Environmental performance metric defined and implemented  2021; established baseline in 2022; achieve a 75% reduction by  2030  In 2021, Eastman defined a process comparable to the API RP 754 tiered system,""
""which is a formalized way of reducing process safety incidents, to categorize key environmental incidents by levels (Level 1 as  most serious  through Level 4 as least serious). We also implemented a modern environmental management system, which included performance dashboards to track progress against environmental key  performance indicators. The new system enables more efficient data collection and visualization to assist facilities and the organization in identification of opportunities to""
""improve both short- and long- term operational metrics. Establishment of the baseline was completed in 2022, and 2023 saw a 31% reduction in Level 1 environmental incidents compared to baseline. Maintain membership in Operation Clean Sweep Blue   As an Operation Clean Sweep Blue member company, Eastman is committed to controlling and eliminating plastic pellet losses to the environment.  We have enhanced our internal reporting to better  capture data associated with plastic pellet, flake and""
""powder containment loss (in accordance with American Chemistry Council guidance).  We continue to engage with our transportation partners on the  importance of pellet loss prevention, containment and clean up, and we are preparing for OCS Blue certification programs being developed in the U.S. and Europe.  We are pleased to report that in 2024  there have been no reportable plastic pellet losses to the environment outside company-operated facilities.  Air emissions 95% reduction in SO2 by 2030""
""compared to 2017 baseline The 2023 SO2 value of 3,895 tons per year (tpy) represents a 64.3% reduction compared to the 2017 baseline of 10,900 tpy. 50% reduction in NOx by 2030 compared to 2017 baseline The 2023 NOx value of 6,153 tons per year (tpy) represents a 26.7% reduction compared to the 2017 baseline of 8,400 tpy.  2023 GOALS AND PROGRESS | CONTINUED | | | | | | 97 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  PROGRESS About this  report This sustainability report""
""reflects Eastman’s advancement toward the meaningful and  measurable goals that will ensure we make progress toward the environmental, social  and governance (ESG) expectations of our customers, employees and investors and  the communities we serve. It is focused on both our forward momentum as well as the  headwinds we incurred during the 2023 through mid-2024 time frame. The quantitative  data of this report is in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards  and discloses""
""material information across the Jan. 1 to Dec. 31, 2023, time frame unless  otherwise noted. In addition to the GRI, this report references additional frameworks to  meet requirements for the United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress  and references the relevant United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Eastman updated our corporate sustainability materiality assessment in 2024 and  has identified topics of significance and indicators that align to our strategy and  are""
""most relevant to our internal and external stakeholders. Our process included  an examination of our business risks and opportunities, evaluation of external  trends, external expertise and our own understanding of our business. See the  “Materiality” section of this report for a full explanation of our findings. This sustainability report, as well as past reports, covers Eastman’s wholly-owned  operations and is used as a means of updating stakeholders on our progress against  stated goals and""
""filing. Eastman has reported toward its  sustainability commitments since  2009. You can reference Eastman's past  sustainability reports linked here. | | | | | | 98 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary      Report of Independent Accountants    To the Board of Directors of Eastman Chemical Company,     We have reviewed the accompanying management assertion of Eastman Chemical Company (Eastman) that the  greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions metrics for the year ended""
""December 31, 2023 in management’s assertion, are  presented in accordance with the assessment criteria set forth in management’s assertion. Eastman’s management  is responsible for its assertion and for the selection of the criteria, which management believes provide an objective  basis for measuring and reporting on the GHG emissions metrics. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on  management’s assertion based on our review.    Our review was conducted in accordance with attestation""
""accuracy of computations on a sample basis, read   relevant policies to understand terms related to relevant information about the GHG emissions metrics,   reviewed supporting documentation in regard to the completeness and accuracy of the data in the GHG   emissions metrics on a sample basis, and performed analytical procedures.    GHG emissions quantification is subject to significant inherent measurement uncertainty because of such things as  GHG emissions factors that are used in""
""mathematical models to calculate GHG emissions, and the inability of  these models, due to incomplete scientific knowledge and other factors, to accurately measure under all  circumstances the relationship between various inputs and the resultant GHG emissions. Environmental and  energy use data used in GHG emissions calculations are subject to inherent limitations, given the nature and the  methods used for measuring such data. The selection by management of different but acceptable measurement""
""techniques could have resulted in materially different amounts or metrics being reported.    Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to Eastman’s  management assertion in order for it to be fairly stated.        Portland, Oregon  August 13, 2024  Report of  independent  accountants | | | | | | 99 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary    GHG emissions metrics Definition of metric/  assessment criteria 1,2,3 Metric quantity""
""in metric tons of carbon  dioxide equivalent  (mtCO2e) Direct (Scope 1)   GHG emissions Direct GHG emissions from stationary combustion, chemical processes,  and fugitive (volatile organic compounds and refrigerants) sources.4,5 5,526,585 Indirect (Scope 2)   GHG emissions Indirect GHG emissions from the generation of purchased grid electricity  and steam, using the location-based and market-based methods.6 Location-based:   1,048,027 Market-based:   1,011,020 Total GHG emissions   (Scope 1 and""
""Scope 2) Direct GHG emissions from Scope 1 and indirect GHG  emissions from Scope 2 (market-based).4,5,6 6,537,605 Other indirect (Scope 3)   GHG emissions — Category 6,   Business travel Indirect GHG emissions from air, rental car, and rail transportation  and hotel stays of employees for business-related activities.7 7,330 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS  Management assertion Eastman considers the principles and guidance of the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council""
""for  Sustainable Development’s (WBCSD) The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard,  Revised Edition, GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance: An Amendment to the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard, and  Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard: Supplement to the GHG Protocol Accounting and  Reporting Standard (together, the “GHG Protocol”) to guide the criteria to assess, calculate, and report GHG emissions. GHG emissions are expressed in CO2e and""
""include carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), and  industrial gases, such as hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6), and perfluorocarbons (PFCs). Nitrogen  trifluoride (NF3) is not emitted by Eastman’s manufacturing sites. Emissions data by individual GHG is not disclosed  as a majority of CO2e relates to CO2. Carbon dioxide equivalent emissions are calculated by multiplying actual fuel  usage and calculated process emissions and refrigerant gas loss by the""
""relevant emission factor taking into account  Global Warming Potentials (GWPs) of the compounds as defined by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s  (IPCC) Fifth Assessment Report. All emission factors are reviewed annually and updated annually as applicable. GHG emissions quantification is subject to significant inherent measurement uncertainty because of such  things as GHG emissions factors that are used in mathematical models to calculate GHG emissions, and the  inability of these""
""models, due to incomplete scientific knowledge and other factors, to accurately measure under  all circumstances the relationship between various inputs and the resultant GHG emissions. Environmental  and energy use data used in GHG emissions calculations are subject to inherent limitations, given the nature  and the methods used for measuring such data. The selection by management of different but acceptable  measurement techniques could have resulted in materially different amounts or metrics""
""being reported. With respect to the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions metrics presented by  Eastman Chemical Company (Eastman) in the table for the year ended December  31, 2023, management of Eastman asserts that the GHG emissions metrics are  presented in accordance with the assessment criteria set forth below. Management  is responsible for the selection of the criteria, which management believes provide  an objective basis for measuring and reporting on the GHG emissions metrics and  for the""
""completeness, accuracy, and validity of the GHG emissions metrics. Organizational boundary Organizational boundary for the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions metrics relate to  Eastman’s manufacturing sites (non-manufacturing sites are excluded) over which it  had financial control during the reporting year. Joint ventures which are consolidated in  Eastman’s financial statements because Eastman has a controlling interest are included in  Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions at 100%. Joint Ventures""
""which are nonconsolidated  in Eastman’s financial statements because Eastman does not have a controlling interest  are included in Scope 3 emissions calculations. Scope 3 category 6, business travel GHG  emissions are inclusive of employees at all of Eastman’s consolidated and nonconsolidated  manufacturing and non-manufacturing sites. Emissions of acquired manufacturing  sites are included starting in the year and month in which Eastman acquired them. 1 2 3 | | | | | | 100 Governance""
""Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS     Related to indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions (continued):         • Emission factors for electricity (market-based):                - GOs and RECs applicable to the 2023 reporting year have                been both contracted and retired as of the date of this                  management assertion.            - Emission factors were applied based on the GHG Protocol                hierarchy and""
""availability of data including the factors below                listed from highest to lowest precision:                               • Electricity contract — GOs, Green Tariffs and RECs                           considered 0 g CO2e/MWh.                         • Utility-specific market-based fuel mix (proportionate                            amounts of fuels driving electricity consumption) for the                               most recent reporting year comes from the Specific""
""Electricity GRID Greenhouse Gas Emission Residual Mix                                   Factors, release 11 – June 2023.                             • Other grid-average emission factors are the same as                           location-based.         Related to other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions — category 6,        business travel:        • Air travel, rental cars and rail: Calculated based on (i) business             travel data (mileage) obtained through annual reports from""
""SAP Concur Global expense data a third-party travel             management organization responsible for employees globally.     • Hotel stays: Calculated based on (i) business travel data (nights             stayed) obtained through annual reports from Concur Travel             Management system, a third-party travel management             organization responsible for employees globally.          • Emissions factors:            - Business travel data for air and rail travel, rental cars, and""
""hotel stays obtained through annual reports: Department               for Environment, Food, & Rural Affairs (DEFRA)               United Kingdom Government GHG Conversion               Factors for Company Reporting 2023.    Data estimations for reported Scope 1 GHG emissions are less than 1%.           Related to direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions:      • Emissions from stationary combustion of fossil fuels (natural gas, liquified petroleum gas, distillate fuel oil, residual fuel oil, coal""
""and fuels produced on site):            - Consumption is measured based on manufacturing site-level monthly (or aggregate) third-party invoices for purchased fossil fuels.            - Emission factors: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Emission Factors for Greenhouse Gas Inventories as obtained from                the American Chemistry Council.    • Stationary combustion includes fuel produced on site, which represents energy generated from the heating of gaseous, solid, and liquid""
""residues. Fuel produced on site was calculated as follows:                 - Data Collection: Quantities of gaseous, solid, and liquid fuels are gathered using meters. This ensures accurate measurement of fuel consumption.            - Conversion to GHG Emissions: The collected fuel quantities are converted to GHG emissions using specific conversion factors for each type of fuel.                 These factors translate the amount of fuel consumed into the corresponding amount of GHG emissions""
""produced.            - Sourcing Emission Factors: Emission factors are sourced from various references. Permit-specific or regulatory-required emissions factors are                prioritized to ensure compliance with relevant regulations. In cases where these factors are not available, other published emissions factors or                calculated emissionsintensity based on generator knowledge are utilized. These may include:                 • U.S. EPA State Inventory and Projection Tools""
""• U.S. Emission Factor Resources (e.g., AP-42)                 • Other government frameworks, publications or approved methodologies (e.g., European Environmental Authorities)                 • Lab results or engineering knowledge of the fuel mixture       • Emissions from fugitives:             - HFCs and PFCs are related to replenishment of refrigerants during 2023. Refrigerant gas loss is calculated based on site-specific               refrigerant management records. The GWP of the individual""
""refrigerants is then used to convert the fugitives into CO2e. 6    Related to indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions:     • Consumption is measured based on monthly third-party invoices for electricity and steam usage. A location-based or market-based emission             factor (as described below) is then applied.     • Emission factors for electricity and steam (location-based):                  - U.S. manufacturing sites: U.S. EPA Emissions & Generation Resource Integrated Database (eGrid)""
""subregion emission factors for 2022 — January 2024.            - All other manufacturing sites: 2023 Carbon Footprint™ Country-Specific Electricity GRID Greenhouse Gas Emission Factors release 11 – July 2023                   (Total Production fuel mix factor).         • Emission factors for electricity (market-based):               - Eastman used Guarantees of Origin (GOs) and Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) and green tariffs during 2023 to contractually procure renewable                 energy""
""in relation to the following manufacturing sites: Oulu, Finland; Newport, Wales; Ghent North, Belgium; Martinsville, Virginia;                Kingsport, Tennessee.          4 5 6 6 7 | | | | | | 101 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  PROGRESS Global   Reporting  Initiative index | | | | | | 102 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  This Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index corresponds to sustainability information presented in our""
""annual sustainability report, our proxy statement and annual report, our website, and other   disclosures. Sustainability information presented in our sustainability report is prepared in accordance with GRI Standards core guidelines and focuses on performance in calendar year 2023. The information included also serves as Eastman’s Communication on Progress as a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and an update on our role in the   United Nations Sustainable Development Goals""
""(SDGs). Global Reporting Initiative index Disclosure  number Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG UNGC   connection The organization and its reporting practices 2-1 Organizational details Who is Eastman 2-2 Entities included in the organization’s   sustainability reporting About this report 2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point About this report 2-4 Restatements of information About this report 2-5 External assurance External assurance Activities and workers 2-6""
""Activities, value chain and other   business relationships Eastman brands 2-7 Employees Appendix | | | | | | 103 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Disclosure  number Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG UNGC   connection Governance 2-9 Governance structure and composition Appendix, Board of Directors, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Bylaws, 2024 Proxy Statement 2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest  governance body Corporate Governance""
""Guidelines, Bylaws, Certification of Incorporation,   2024 Proxy Statement 2-11 Chair of the highest governance body 2024 Proxy Statement, Corporate Governance Guidelines 2-12 Role of the highest governance body in  overseeing the management of impacts Corporate Governance, Sustainability Governance, 2024 Proxy Statement, CDP Climate Change 2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts Corporate Governance, 2024 Proxy Statement, Corporate Governance Guidelines,   Audit Committee Charter""
""2-14 Role of highest governance body   in sustainability reporting Governance 2-15 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance, Corporate Governance Guidelines, 2024 Proxy Statement,   Audit Committee Charter 2-16 Communication of critical concerns Corporate Governance Guidelines, 2024 Proxy Statement, Board Stockholder Communication   and Engagement Policy, Audit Committee Charter 2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest  governance bodies Corporate Governance, Corporate Governance Guidelines,""
""2024 Proxy Statement GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX | CONTINUED | | | | | | 104 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Disclosure  number Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG UNGC   connection 2-18 Evaluation of the performance of   the highest governance body Corporate Governance, Corporate Governance Guidelines, 2024 Proxy Statement, Audit Committee Charter,  Compensation and Management Development Committee Charter, Finance Committee Charter,""
""Environmental,  Safety and Sustainability Committee Charter, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Charter 2-19 Remuneration policies Corporate Governance Guidelines, 2024 Proxy Statement 2-20 Process to determine remuneration Corporate Governance Guidelines, 2024 Proxy Statement 2-21 Annual total compensation ratio This is considered business confidential. Strategy, policies and practices 2-22 Statement on sustainable   development strategy CEO message 2-23 Policy commitments Values,""
""GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX | CONTINUED | | | | | | 105 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Disclosure  number Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG UNGC   connection Stakeholder engagement 2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement 16 2-30 Collective bargaining agreements As of July 1, 2024, collective bargaining agreements covered approximately 3% of Eastman’s U.S.-based workforce. 3-1 Report process of determining material""
""topics Materiality assessment 3-2 Report a list of its material topics Materiality assessment 3-3 Report how it manages each material topic Materiality assessment Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and  distributed 2023 10K Report, Part II, Item 8 2, 5, 7, 8, 9 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and  opportunities due to climate change Appendix 13 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other  retirement plans Eastman provides on-site and virtual no-cost""
""financial planning counseling resources to our employees and their  family members. In addition, multiple innovative financial technology solutions are provided at no cost to assist  our employees to support their financial wellness. Also, eligible employees get $1,000 per year into their Health  Savings Accounts (HSAs) from Eastman that can be saved for retirement.   Benefits at Eastman GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX | CONTINUED | | | | | | 106 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society""
""Strategy Summary  Disclosure  number Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG UNGC   connection Market presence 202-2 Proportion of senior management   hired from the local community Appendix Indirect economic impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments   and services supported Appendix 2, 5, 7, 9 203-2 Significant indirect   economic impacts Appendix 8, 10, 17 Procurement practices 204-1 Proportion of spending   on local suppliers  Eastman’s policy is to procure products and services based""
""for risks   related to corruption Eastman conducts an annual risk assessment of 100% of our businesses, which includes risks relating to corruption.    No significant risks related to corruption were reported or have been identified through the risk assessment. 10, 16 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX | CONTINUED | | | | | | 107 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Disclosure  number Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG UNGC   connection 205-2""
""Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Disclosure  number Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG UNGC   connection Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Eastman used about 104.1 trillion BTU in 2023 to produce products using both direct and indirect energy. About 86% of direct  energy was produced from purchased natural gas and coal, and about 14% was recovered fuel from feedstock.  7, 8, 12, 13 7, 8 302-2 Energy consumption outside of   the organization In 2023,""
""Eastman used about 22 trillion BTU of indirect energy in the form of purchased steam and electricity to   produce products. 7, 8, 12, 13 7, 8 302-3 Energy intensity Energy, Energy management 7, 8, 12, 13 7, 8 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Energy management, CDP Climate Change 7, 8, 12, 13 8, 9 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements   of products and services Energy management Water and effluents 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Water management 303-2 Management of""
""water discharge-related  impacts Eastman is not aware of any significant impact on any water source. At our largest manufacturing facilities in Kingsport,  Tennessee, and Longview, Texas, comprehensive river studies conducted by the Academy of Natural Sciences of Drexel  University, formerly known as the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences, confirm that these rivers provide thriving   habitats for wildlife communities.        Water management 303-3 Water withdrawal Water, CDP Water""
""Response; CDP Water Response GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX | CONTINUED | | | | | | 109 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Disclosure  number Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG UNGC   connection 303-4 Water discharge   Water, CDP Water Response (W1.2b) 303-5 Water consumption Water, CDP Water Response (W1.2b) Biodiversity 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in,  or adjacent to protected areas and areas of  high biodiversity value outside""
""protected areas Biodiversity 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products  and services on biodiversity  Biodiversity 6, 14, 15 8 304-3 Habitats protected or restored  Biodiversity 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national  conservation list species with habitats in areas  affected by operations Biodiversity Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Our 2023 direct greenhouse gas emissions, based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, were 5,526,585 MT CO2e,   CDP Climate 3, 12, 13,   14, 15""
""7, 8 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Our 2023 indirect location-based greenhouse gas emissions, based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, were 1,048,027 MT CO2e,  CDP Climate 3, 12, 13,   14, 15 7, 8 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX | CONTINUED | | | | | | 110 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Disclosure  number Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG UNGC   connection 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Emissions, CDP Climate 3, 12,""
""13,   14, 15 7, 8 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Emissions, CDP Climate  13, 14, 15 8 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Emissions, CDP Climate  13, 14, 15 8, 9 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances  (ODS) Eastman policies require all Eastman facilities, subsidiaries and majority-owned joint ventures that   operate equipment containing ODS to develop and maintain an inventory of all ODS equipment,   including an identification of the equipment and type and quantity of refrigerant. 3, 12 7,""
""8 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and  other significant air emissions Environmental performance 3, 12, 13, 15 7, 8 Waste 306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related  impacts Eastman takes great care to manage our on-site waste production, and we recycle many materials that would otherwise become  waste. Our integrated global supply chain is committed to developing and using materials that are recyclable, reusable and waste  reducing whenever possible. See the""
""following links for further information: ESG Databook, Circular economy 306-2 Management of significant waste-related  impacts Appendix, Environmental stewardship, Responsible Care, HSES management 3, 6, 12 8 306-3 Waste generated Emissions, CDP Climate, Waste reduction 3, 6, 12, 14 8 306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Emissions, CDP Climate, Waste reduction 306-5 Waste directed to disposal Waste reduction GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX | CONTINUED | | | | | | 111 Governance Circularity""
""Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Disclosure  number Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG UNGC   connection Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Appendix 5, 8 6 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees   that are not provided to temporary or   part-time employees Please note that all of the benefits selected above are also provided to part-time employees in the U.S.   Benefits at Eastman 8 401-3 Parental leave We do not report in detail on the""
""loss and requirements under collective   bargaining agreements, are carefully assessed in every global location. 8 3 Occupational health and safety 403-1 Occupational health and safety   management system Appendix, Health and safety 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment,   and incident investigation Safety GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX | CONTINUED | | | | | | 112 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Disclosure  number Description Cross-reference or answer""
""Approximately 14,000 employees were employed by Eastman in 2023.   All employees are subject to Eastman’s health and safety programs. 403-9 Work-related injuries Safety metrics 403-10 Work-related ill health Safety metrics Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per year   per employee Appendix 8 6 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX | CONTINUED | | | | | | 113 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Disclosure  number Description Cross-reference or answer""
""collective  bargaining may be at risk Eastman complies with all laws designed to preserve the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining.  Eastman has not identified any operations at which those rights are at significant risk. 8 3 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX | CONTINUED | | | | | | 114 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Disclosure  number Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG UNGC   connection Child labor 408-1 Operations""
""procedures Security 16 1 Rights of Indigenous peoples 411-1 Incidents of violations involving   rights of indigenous peoples As of December 2023, no incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples were identified or investigated  during the reporting period. Additionally, zero operations have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments. 1 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX | CONTINUED | | | | | | 115 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy""
""Summary  Disclosure  number Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG UNGC   connection Local communities 413-1 Operations with local community  engagement, impact assessments  and development programs Appendix Supplier social assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened   using social criteria Eastman is a member of the Together for Sustainability Initiative (TfS), the chemical initiative for sustainable supply chains.  TfS is a member-driven initiative founded in 2011 by six major""
""chemical companies. Since that time, membership has grown  to 53 members, including Eastman as the first U.S. chemical industry member. TfS develops and implements a global supplier  engagement program to assess, audit and improve sustainability practices within the supply chain of the chemical industry.   Under this initiative, Eastman collects information from suppliers by requesting suppliers complete an EcoVadis sustainability  assessment, which has four elements: environmental, labor and""
""rights or societal issues that occurred in 2023. 2 Public policy 415-1 Political contributions Appendix 10 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX | CONTINUED | | | | | | 116 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  Disclosure  number Description Cross-reference or answer Pages SDG UNGC   connection Customer health and safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of  product and service categories Eastman’s product stewardship PSRA program performs hazard and risk""
""assessment reviews for 100% of its products. Monitoring  potential risk classifications drives the Eastman goal of reduction or elimination of PBT, vPvB, CMR, ED and sensitizers from  Eastman’s existing product portfolio. Monitoring hazards and risk classifications also highlights potential areas of the portfolio  where there could be capacity for improvement. Active engagement in hazard and risk assessments provides opportunities  for members of the product stewardship and regulatory affairs""
""program to proactively identify any potential human and/or  environmental hazard concerns for a proposed product undergoing research and development. A course of action to eliminate  the potential hazards and risks can then be designed and implemented. Responsible Care Marketing and labeling 417-1 Requirements for product and service  information and labeling Product Safety, Product Stewardship 12 417-2 Incidents of noncompliance concerning  product and service information and labeling Eastman""
""has not identified any noncompliance with regulations or voluntary codes regarding product or service information  and labeling for the reporting year.  All of our product safety data sheets and labeling comply with regulatory requirements for hazard communication in all  countries and regions. In 2016, we implemented the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals  (GHS) process to define, classify and communicate chemical hazard and safety information for all of our""
""products. 16 417-3 Incidents of noncompliance concerning  marketing communications Eastman is unaware of any significant fines in 2023 concerning marketing communications. Customer privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning   breaches of customer privacy and losses   of customer data Eastman is unaware of any complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy or loss of customer data in 2023. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX | CONTINUED | | | | | | 117 Governance Circularity Climate""
""whole. As a consequence, the committee structure of the Board is limited  to those committees considered to be basic or required for the efficient functioning of the Board. Currently these  committees are the Audit Committee; the Finance Committee; the Compensation and Management Development  Committee; the Environmental, Safety and Sustainability Committee; the Finance Committee; and the Nominating  and Corporate Governance Committee. (See Corporate Governance Guidelines Section III, Paragraph""
""mechanisms by clicking the “Report a Concern” tile  on Eastman’s intranet home screen; by visiting the Global Business Conduct (“GBC”) SharePoint  site; and through multiple policies such as the Code of Business Conduct, the AP - Reporting  Concerns Policy, and others, which are found within Eastman’s MyPolicyHub system. | | | | | | 118 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE APPENDIX | CONTINUED 201-2 Financial implications and other risks""
""and opportunities   due to climate change  Please see Eastman’s most recent CDP Climate Change questionnaire for a comprehensive review of climate change  related implications, risks and opportunities. Future changes in legislation and regulation and related voluntary actions  associated with physical impacts of climate change may increase the likelihood that Eastman’s manufacturing facilities  will be impacted by carbon requirements, regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, and energy policy""
""that may result in  additional and increased capital expenditures, increases in costs for raw materials and energy, limitations on raw material  and energy source and supply choices, and other direct compliance costs. That said, physical impacts of climate change and a transition to a lower-carbon economy have the potential to advantage  Eastman products in some markets. As one example, Eastman is the world's largest producer of window tint films for the  automotive market with applications of""
""films like LLumar®, V-Kool® and SunTek®. Eastman's LLumar, V-Kool and SunTek  films can be applied to almost any building or vehicle window to reduce energy consumption, lower peak demand and  decrease total carbon emissions.   Eastman also has an advantaged platform of solutions to address the challenges of plastic waste in the environment with  our molecular recycling technologies. Eastman's scale and integration provides an opportunity to accelerate the use of  two recycling technologies —""
""carbon renewal technology and polyester renewal technology — and make a meaningful  positive impact on the environment. Specifically, Eastman's molecular recycling facilities will support our commitment to  address the global waste crisis and to mitigating challenges created by climate change.    202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community  Eastman has a large geographic footprint within the U.S. and globally. Talent strategies are developed to align with business""
""second U.S. molecular recycling facility in Longview, Texas.  The new facility will have the capacity to recycle approximately 110,000 metric tonnes of hard-to-recycle plastic waste,  enable true circularity and set a new benchmark for decarbonization.  The investment is expected to bring more than  200 full-time, high paying jobs to the Longview community in addition to approximately 1,000 temporary construction  jobs during site development and building of the facility.  Preparations for the""
""facility build-out and community initiative  is expected to begin in the spring of 2025 with financial support from DOE extending over a five-year period.  Eastman  has operated in the Longview community for over 70 years and currently has more than 1,500 employees at the location.   Eastman’s planned project is aligned with the DOE’s goal of catalyzing industry-wide change to a low-carbon future and  will include deployment of thermal batteries and on-site solar power.  These carbon-reduction""
""enhancements, combined  with Eastman's next-generation methanolysis technology, will achieve a step-change improvement in decarbonizing PET  production resulting in recycled PET with greater than 70 percent reduced carbon emissions compared to fossil fuel-based  virgin PET production, and approximately 90 percent reduced carbon emissions when including avoided emissions. Recognized as a global health issue in 2022 by the World Health Organization (WHO), poor oral health disproportionately""
""2021.  UTHSC is Tennessee’s only public dental school and provides  more than 70% of dentists in the state. | | | | | | 119 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE APPENDIX | CONTINUED In February 2023, Eastman embarked on a $15 million major remodel of the MeadowView Marriott Hotel in Kingsport,  Tennessee. The hotel now boasts 301 renovated rooms and suites. The Eastman-owned hotel is part of the MeadowView  Marriott Conference Resort &""
""appearance of corruption or bribery and facilitation payments. Additionally, Eastman requires that third parties complete   the TRACE International Anti-Bribery Course for Intermediaries prior to being eligible to conduct business with Eastman.  306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts Eastman continuously strives to protect the environment in the communities where we operate as well as understand the  environmental impact of our products. As a manufacturer of chemicals since 1920""
""and a Responsible Care® company for  35 years, Eastman has comprehensive guidelines and processes in place for reducing energy usage and minimizing our  environmental footprint. In keeping with Eastman’s circular economy efforts, waste management at Eastman begins in  order of preference with source reduction, followed by reuse, recycling and energy recovery, with the last option being  treatment and disposal. Not only does this deliver productivity gains for our business, it contributes to our""
""regulatory  compliance and reduces our environmental footprint. Eastman focuses on efforts to reduce waste, enable a sustainable  supply chain, and continually understand the impact of our products on the environment through life cycle assessments.  Eastman’s Global HSE Audit Program implements an HSE assessment program to evaluate the hazards/risks associated  with third-party providers that are contracted to provide services to Eastman or that otherwise do business with Eastman  in a manner""
""that involves their handling or management of Eastman-owned products or materials. The process includes  identification of third-party providers, risk-based determination of assessment need, and appropriate assessment/ reassessment. Eastman uses internal tracking mechanisms to collect and monitor waste-related data.     | | | | | | 120 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover  Eastman’s total global voluntary turnover rate""
""(nonoperational) 14 Nonexempt (operations) 61 Technicians/technologists 28 Average 37 | | | | | | 121 Governance Circularity Climate Progress Society Strategy Summary  GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE APPENDIX | CONTINUED Gender Age Ethnicity Male: 75.3% Less than 30 years: 17.1% Minority: 12% Female: 24.7% 30–50 years: 52.1% White: 88% Greater than 50 years: 30.9% 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments   and development""
""communities.  The idea behind these priorities is that when incorporated comprehensively into project  proposals and applications and executed upon, the CBP portion will help ensure broadly shared prosperity in the clean  energy transition.  Eastman’s CBP was developed in partnership with local Longview leaders following considerable  community consultations, an investment valued at approximately $20 million for the South Longview community. The  CBP investment is underpinned by data from""
""environmental justice tools offered by the US Environmental Protection  Agency, the White House Council on Environmental Quality and the DOE that explore the environmental health and the  conditions (socioeconomic and or other distinguishing community characteristics) within a specific region, town, city or  entire state.  The CBP will be implemented in partnership with the South Longview community over a five-year period. 415-1 Political contributions Eligible U.S. employees may contribute""
""Tennessee totaled $10,500 in 2023. The federal government requires all registered lobbyists to report personal campaign  contributions semiannually. Each year, Eastman employees who meet the requirements file the necessary reports. These  reports are available online at http://lobbyingdisclosure.house.gov/. Eastman’s political activity policies and guidelines are  located on the company’s website: Political Engagement | Eastman Chemical Company | | | | | | 122 Governance Circularity Climate""
""Progress Society Strategy Summary  Although the information and recommendations set forth herein are presented in good faith, Eastman Chemical Company (“Eastman”) and its subsidiaries make no  representations or warranties as to the completeness or accuracy thereof. You must make your own determination of its suitability and completeness for your own use,  for the protection of the environment, and for the health and safety of your employees and purchasers of your products. Nothing contained""
