""An Integrated  Approach 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  Contents Introduction 3      Letter to Stakeholders 5        2024 Sustainability Highlights 6        Data Tear Sheet 8       About EOG 10    EOG’s Integrated Approach  to Sustainability 11        About This Report Environment 13        Our Integrated Approach to  Environmental Management 18        Climate 21      Managing Emissions      34  In Focus: Driving  Continuous Performance  With Emissions Targets 35       Water Management 38""
""Spill Prevention and Management 40      Biodiversity and Land Stewardship       43  In Focus: Advancing  Effective Reclamation Social 45       Our Communities 49      Our People 54   Safety          58  In Focus: Enhancing Our Safety  Culture Through Knowledge  Sharing and Innovation Governance 60    Board of Directors 63   Oversight and Practices Appendix 71     Key Elements of Our Safety and  Environmental Policy 72        Hydraulic Fracturing 73         Seismicity 73   Waste Management 74""
""Formulas 75     Definitions 79  SASB and TCFD Indexes 81        American Exploration and Production  Council Metrics 83        Internal and Third-Party Verification  and Assurance 83        Additional Disclosures Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 2 2024 Sustainability Report  Letter to Stakeholders 2024 was a milestone year for EOG as we celebrated twenty-five years  as an independent company. For the past twenty-five years, EOG  has successfully navigated industry cycles and""
""delivered consistent  financial and operational results while delivering strong environmental  performance. EOG’s consistency can be tied directly to our differentiated  strategy: capital discipline, operational excellence, and sustainability,  all underpinned by EOG’s unique culture.  EOG continues to demonstrate that operational excellence and strong  environmental performance can go hand in hand with delivering reliable  and affordable energy. Leveraging our unique, decentralized culture, we""
""were once again able to achieve our 2025 emissions targets, ahead of  schedule. As part of our ongoing commitment to strong environmental  performance, we have developed new emissions targets, announced  earlier this year. Beyond emissions, we supported innovative reclamation and conservation  efforts across several of our operating areas and continued our outreach  to the communities where we live and work. We were also honored to be  recognized with several USA Today Top Workplace awards, a""
""testament  to the strength of our culture and our employees. Our 2024 results are not the product of any one initiative; rather, they are  the outcome of a highly engaged, innovative culture where sustainability  is integrated across the business. As the global energy landscape  evolves and becomes more diverse, we believe that oil and natural gas  will continue to play an essential part in long-term energy supply. With  a track record of innovation and collaboration, we remain focused on  being""
""among the highest return and lowest cost producers, committed  to strong environmental performance and playing a significant role in the  long-term future of energy, through the commodity cycles.  Ezra Y. Yacob Chairman and Chief Executive Officer EOG continues to demonstrate that operational  excellence and strong environmental performance  can go hand in hand with delivering reliable and  affordable energy.”   2025 Targets and Achievements 13.5 GHG Intensity Rate by 2025  Achieved in 2022,""
""2023, and 2024 0.06% Methane Emissions Percentage by 2025  Achieved in 2022, 2023, and 2024 Zero Routine Flaring by 2025  Achieved in 2023 and 2024 Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 3 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction  Letter to Stakeholders (continued) GOAL-SETTING CULTURE AND  NEW EMISSIONS TARGETS At EOG, target setting is coupled with regular oversight and transparent  disclosure to provide alignment across the company. We view targets as  catalysts that help drive""
""continuous improvement and innovation.  One example is achieving our Zero Routine Flaring target ahead of  schedule. Joining the World Bank Zero Routine Flaring by 2030  Initiative focused our efforts to thoroughly evaluate our operations  and approach to flaring. Our proactive focus on natural gas takeaway  planning and infrastructure, combined with innovative in-field practices  and technologies, supported our progress toward achieving Zero  Routine Flaring. In addition, we have made""
""outstanding progress in reducing our methane  emissions. Our membership in the Oil & Gas Methane Partnership 2.0  (OGMP 2.0) and achievement of Gold Standard Pathway demonstrate  our continued focus on transparency and collaboration within our  industry. Over time, we believe improved measurement and innovation  in technology will not only strengthen our reporting, but also allow us to  maintain our methane emissions at a near-zero level. These efforts, among many others, reflect how we approach""
""challenges  as a company. Our employees collaborate to leverage their collective  expertise to find practical, fit-for-purpose solutions. We also recognize  that available technologies, regulatory standards, and stakeholder  expectations regarding emissions and reporting transparency continue  to evolve. We seek to set targets that are adaptable and continue  evaluating our approach to drive performance improvements.  Earlier this year, we introduced new emissions targets that build on  our past""
""successes and leverage our emissions data to drive continued  progress in reducing the emissions intensity of our operations. Our  comprehensive emissions and operational data, combined with our  proactive emissions management approach, allowed us to establish  our new targets based on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s  (EPA) updated emissions reporting methodology a year ahead of  required reporting.  CONCLUSION At EOG, sustainability is integrated throughout the life cycle of our""
""operations, not treated as a separate effort. It informs how we plan,  operate, and improve across the company. After twenty-five years,  we are approaching our future with the intention of leveraging what  we have learned from our past to help meet the dual energy challenge  of supplying reliable, affordable energy while maintaining strong  environmental performance.  Stakeholders are an integral part of our approach, and we value their  feedback. What is commonly recognized among stakeholders""
""is that a  successful long-term energy solution will require oil and natural gas as  part of the future energy mix. We look forward to ongoing discussions  with our stakeholders related to meeting long-term energy needs and the  role of oil and natural gas. We are confident in our ability to adapt through  change and continue creating value for shareholders, employees, and  the communities where we operate.  Our contribution to the long-term future of energy would not be  possible without our""
""employees. I want to thank everyone at EOG for  the contributions they have made to another strong year, and for the  commitment they show every day to our value proposition. As we look  ahead, we will continue learning, leading, and evolving, true to our  values and confident in our ability to thrive through the cycles.  Ezra Y. Yacob Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   EOG’s New Near-Term Emissions Targets Reduce GHG Emissions  Intensity Rate* Maintain Near-Zero  Methane Emissions*""
""Maintain Zero  Routine Flaring 25% from 2019 By 2030 0.20% or less 2025–2030 Zero  routine flaring 2025–2030 * See Definitions for more information on calculation methodology and boundaries. Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 4 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction  2024 Sustainability Highlights EMISSIONS PERFORMANCE EOG’S NEW NEAR-TERM EMISSIONS TARGETS ENGAGED AND EMPOWERED EMPLOYEES TOP WORKPLACE RECOGNITION SAFETY PERFORMANCE ENHANCING OUR SAFETY CULTURE Through""
""knowledge sharing and innovation ADVANCING EFFECTIVE RECLAMATION Reclamation activities in Powder River Basin EOG’S HIGHLY INNOVATIVE CULTURE 13.5 GHG Intensity Rate  Achieved in 2022,  2023, and 2024 0.06% Methane Emissions Percentage   Achieved in 2022,  2023, and 2024 3.0% Voluntary turnover rate 64% Have been with the company  5 or more years 99% iSense® continuous leak  detection system coverage in  Delaware Basin as of YE 2024** Proactive Spill prevention  in our operations Expanded Use""
""of mechanical evaporation  technology to help manage  water resources 140+ In-house applications to  support data transparency 22% Decrease in workforce TRIR 33% Decrease in workforce LTIR Zero Routine Flaring  Achieved in 2023  and 2024 Reduce GHG Emissions  Intensity Rate* Maintain Near-Zero  Methane Emissions* Maintain Zero  Routine Flaring 25% from 2019 By 2030 0.20% or less 2025–2030 Zero  routine flaring 2025–2030 2025 2024-2025 2020-2025 2023-2025 2013-2024 2010-2024 2013-2024 2022-2025""
""* See Definitions for more information on calculation methodology and boundaries. ** Based on percentage of gross oil production handled at central tank batteries covered  by iSense. See iSense Continuous Leak Detection System for more information. Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 5 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction  Data Tear Sheet1,2 Unit 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 Operations U.S. Gross Operated Production  MMBoe  446  421 382 356 328 U.S. Gross Operated Natural Gas""
""Production Bcf  1,198  1,090 921 812 721 Total Gross Operated Production MMBoe  469  437 — — — Total Gross Operated Natural Gas Production Bcf  1,328  1,186 — — — U.S. Workforce Hours Worked Million hours  43  40 34 31 30 U.S. Gross Completed Wells #  739  765 617 563 615 Environmental Greenhouse Gas Emissions3 U.S. GHG Emissions Scope 1 GHG Emissions Million metric tons CO2e 5.9 5.6 5.1 5.0 4.5 Scope 2 GHG Emissions Million metric tons CO2e 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 U.S. Scope 1 GHG Emissions by""
""Constituent Gas Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Million metric tons CO2e 5.6 5.3 4.9 4.7 4.2 Methane (CH4) Million metric tons CO2e 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.3 Nitrous Oxide (N2O) Million metric tons CO2e 0.003 0.004 0.003 0.003 0.003 U.S. Scope 1 GHG Emissions by Source Combustion Million metric tons CO2e 5.3 4.9 4.3 4.1 3.6 Flaring Million metric tons CO2e 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.6 0.5 Pneumatics Million metric tons CO2e 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.05 0.1 Other Sources Million metric tons CO2e 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.2 U.S. Scope 1 GHG""
""Intensity GHG Intensity Rate Metric tons CO2e/MBoe 13.2 13.2 13.3 14.0 13.6 U.S. Scope 1 GHG Intensity Rate by Source Combustion Metric tons CO2e/MBoe 11.9 11.8 11.4 11.5 11.1 Flaring Metric tons CO2e/MBoe 0.8 0.9 1.2 1.6 1.6 Pneumatics Metric tons CO2e/MBoe 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 Other Sources Metric tons CO2e/MBoe 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.8 0.7 U.S. Methane Intensity Methane Intensity Rate Metric tons CO2e/MBoe 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.7 0.8 Methane Emissions Percentage (of natural gas production only) % 0.04 0.04""
""0.04 0.06 0.08 U.S. Wellhead Gas Capture Wellhead Gas Capture Rate % 99.9 99.9 99.9 99.8 99.6 Total GHG Emissions4 Scope 1 GHG Emissions Million metric tons CO2e 6.0 5.7 — — — Scope 3 GHG Emissions5 Million metric tons CO2e 127.0 118.0 110.3 — — Total Scope 1 GHG Emissions by Constituent Gas4 Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Million metric tons CO2e 5.7 5.4 — — — Methane (CH4) Million metric tons CO2e 0.3 0.3 — — — Nitrous Oxide (N2O) Million metric tons CO2e 0.003 0.004 — — — Unit 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020""
""Total Scope 1 GHG Intensity4 GHG Intensity Rate Metric tons CO2e/MBoe 12.8 13.0 — — — Total Methane Intensity4 Methane Intensity Rate Metric tons CO2e/MBoe 0.7 0.7 — — — Methane Emissions Percentage (of natural gas production only) % 0.04 0.06 — — — Energy Use3 Electricity Usage Thousands MWh 917 804 755 721 644 Other Air Emissions Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) Metric tons  215   230   210   160  — Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) Metric tons  8,000   6,800   8,600   9,700  — Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs)""
""Metric tons  8,000   6,800   7,100   8,400  — Water Mangement Water Use Total Water Use MMBbls 328 306 219 196 185 Reuse MMBbls 164 175 127 107 84 Nonfresh Water MMBbls 71 68 62 71 65 Fresh Water MMBbls 93 63 30 18 36 Water Use Percentage Percent Sourced from Reuse % 50 57 58 55 46 Percent Sourced from Nonfresh Water  % 22 22 28 36 35 Percent Sourced from Fresh Water % 28 21 14 9 19 Water Intensity Total Water Intensity Rate  Bbls/Boe  0.73 0.73 0.57 0.55 0.56 Reuse Intensity Rate   Bbls/Boe""
""0.37 0.42 0.33 0.30 0.26 Nonfreshwater Intensity Rate   Bbls/Boe  0.16 0.16 0.16 0.20 0.20 Freshwater Intensity Rate  Bbls/Boe  0.21 0.15 0.08 0.05 0.11 Spills Spills Over One Barrel Oil Spill Volume  Bbls  2,013   2,780   3,232   4,109   2,514  Recovered  Bbls  1,731   2,345   2,717   2,627   1,612  Oil Spill Rate Bbls/MBoe  0.005 0.007 0.008 0.012 0.008 Recovered  Bbls/Mboe 0.004 0.006 0.007 0.007 0.005 Produced Water Spill Volume Bbls   15,387   13,968   12,468   25,304   14,526  Recovered""
""Bbls   10,945   7,811   10,716   17,558   8,961  Number of Oil Spills # 145 199 231 263 — Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 6 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction  Data Tear Sheet (continued) Unit 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 Social Our People Employees (as of Dec. 31) #  3,003   2,923   2,728   2,697   2,776  Employee Voluntary Turnover6 % 3.0 3.0 5.1 3.8 1.5 Employee Representation Total Female % 26.5 27.6 28.0 29.1 30.3 Minority7,8 % 33.5 32.4 29.9 27.2 25.9 Hispanic or""
""calculation  methodologies, adjustments, and other factors. As a result, these metrics are subject to change if updated data or other information  becomes available. Accordingly, certain metrics in this table and elsewhere in this report with respect to prior years may be revised from  previous sustainability reports to reflect updated data and other information. Any updates to the metrics in this table, prior to our next  sustainability report, will be set forth in the Data Tear Sheet posted to""
""the Sustainability section of the EOG website. Further, certain total  amounts in this table and presented elsewhere in this report may not equal the sum of their components due to rounding. 3 We obtained independent third-party verification and assurance of our GHG emissions and energy use data in the year the data was first  reported. See Internal and Third-Party Verification and Assurance for more information. 4 Metric includes U.S. and Trinidad operations. See Definitions for more""
""information on boundaries. 5 Total Scope 3 GHG Emissions from Category 11: Use of Sold Products. See Definitions for more information on calculation methodology  and assumptions. 6 Does not include voluntary retirement rates of 1.6%, 0.9%, 1.4%, 1.1%, and 0.6% for 2024, 2023, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. 7 As defined by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC). 8 Based on employee self-identification in the year the data was first reported. The “Other” category includes""
""American Indian/Alaska Native,  Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, and two or more races. Units of Measure Bbls barrels Bcf billion cubic feet of natural gas Boe barrels of oil equivalent MBoe thousand barrels of oil equivalent Mcf thousand cubic feet of natural gas MMBbls million barrels MMBoe million barrels of oil equivalent MWh megawatt hour Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 7 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction  Anadarko Basin Barnett Shale Permian Basin""
""Williston Basin Powder River Basin DJ Basin Denver Oklahoma City Fort Worth Midland San Antonio Corpus Christi Houston  (Corporate Headquarters) Eagle Ford Dorado South Texas Appalachian Basin Columbus Basin Port of Spain Trinidad & Tobago About EOG EOG Resources, headquartered in Houston, Texas, is one of the  largest crude oil and natural gas exploration and production companies  in the United States, with proved reserves in the U.S. and Trinidad. EOG’s value proposition is to create""
""sustainable value through industry  cycles. Our strategy of capital discipline, operational excellence,  sustainability, and culture is at the core of our success as a company.  We believe we will continue to create shareholder value by focusing  on being a high-return, low-cost producer, committed to strong  environmental performance, and will play a significant role in the  long-term future of energy. In order to find and develop low-cost reserves, EOG emphasizes the   exploration and drilling""
""of internally generated prospects. This strategy  is intended to consistently deliver cost-effective crude oil and natural  gas production that enhances the generation of cash flow and earnings  from each unit of production, allowing the company to deliver long-term  growth in shareholder value while maintaining a strong balance sheet. Our employees drive our unique culture — our returns‑focused,  best-in-class exploration; technology leadership; collaborative;  multidisciplinary innovation; and""
""commitment to responsible operations. 2024 Operations Total Net Proved Reserves as of December 31, 2024 U.S. Net Proved Reserves by Type as of December 31, 2024 40%  Crude Oil &  Condensate 99%  United States 29%  Natural Gas  Liquids 1%  Trinidad  & Tobago 31%  Natural Gas Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 8 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction  About EOG (continued) RESILIENCE OF EOG’S LONG-TERM STRATEGY EOG focuses predominantly on maximizing the rate of return on""
""basin portfolio of assets supports our long-term  strategy by providing the flexibility to invest at a pace allowing   individual assets to continue to improve. Our multi-basin portfolio also  provides flexibility to adjust to dynamic market conditions such as the  macroeconomic environment, supply-and-demand fundamentals, or  basin-specific economic factors.  Sustainability is not a separate effort at EOG. Instead, it is integrated  into our operations throughout the exploration, development,""
""and  production life cycle and supports the long-term resilience of our  portfolio. Responsible stewardship and emissions management is a  focus of our innovative technologies and practices, which support our  commitment to leading environmental performance. |  EOG’s multi-basin portfolio EOG’s Diversified  Portfolio of Assets 16  Plays 9  Basins 12+  Billion Boe of  Resource Potential* * Reflects acquisition of Encino Acquisition Partners, completed August 1, 2025; see Reserves in the Appendix""
""for related discussion. Sustainable Value Creation Through Industry Cycles We believe the primary drivers of EOG’s value proposition are our  commitment to capital discipline, operational excellence, and  leading sustainability efforts, all underpinned by our unique culture. Capital  Discipline Operational  Excellence EOG Culture Sustainability Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 9 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction  EOG’s Integrated Approach  to Sustainability EOG is""
""committed to playing a significant role in the long-term future of  energy through sustainable value creation across industry cycles. We  are focused on safe operations, leading environmental performance,  community engagement, innovation, a highly engaged workforce, and  strong corporate governance. Management of sustainability matters is integrated throughout EOG’s  culture and our operations. Our employees improve the company’s  sustainability performance in the same way, and at the same""
""time,  they create value across our operations: by using data, technology,  and innovation in the field through multidisciplinary teams across our  decentralized organization to develop new and creative solutions. We encourage continuous improvement in sustainability-related matters  by setting targets, empowering our employees, measuring and reporting  progress, and tying a portion of executive and employee compensation  to achieving safety and environmental goals. DECENTRALIZED STRUCTURE""
""FOSTERS INNOVATION Our decentralized model fosters innovation across operating areas  and compounds the impact of innovation by taking ideas born in  one operating area and expanding them across multiple basins and  functions. Collaborative, multidisciplinary teams share new technologies  and practices, from enhanced completion techniques and drilling  motor designs to improved self-sourced procurement practices  and information-technology-driven solutions that support emissions  reduction""
""efforts. Senior leadership works to empower every employee as a decision- maker and idea generator directly contributing to EOG’s performance  and success. This empowerment is further bolstered by giving  employees access to real-time performance data across a wide range  of operational and financial functions, with more than 140 proprietary  applications developed in-house through cross-functional collaboration. Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 10 2024 Sustainability Report""
""Introduction  About This Report EOG’s 2024 Sustainability Report presents our approach to managing  sustainability matters and our related performance. We report on  our 2024 activities and accomplishments and highlight certain areas of  focus looking forward. This report reflects our ongoing commitment to transparency.  In developing the contents of this report, we considered topics  of interest to our stakeholders, rating agencies and surveys, and  peer reporting and benchmarking.  To support""
""more comparability in reporting across independent oil and  natural gas exploration and production companies in the United States,  we include metrics based on the American Exploration and Production  Council’s (AXPC) framework. Refer to American Exploration and  Production Council Metrics for more information. We also considered common voluntary reporting frameworks, including  the disclosure framework of the Sustainability Accounting Standards  Board (SASB), and the recommended disclosure""
""elements of the  Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Refer to  the SASB and TCFD Indexes for a map of the contents of this report  to SASB and TCFD disclosure topics. Inclusion of a subject in this report is not intended to correspond with the  concept of materiality associated with disclosures required by the U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Information about issues  deemed material to our investors as defined by regulatory requirements  may be found in""
""our SEC filings. SCOPE Unless otherwise stated, the topics and information covered in this  report apply to our U.S. operations for the year ended December 31,  2024, and do not include our international operations or the operations  associated with the acquisition of Encino Acquisition Partners,  which closed on August 1, 2025. However, beginning with the 2023  Sustainability Report, we have included Scope 1 emissions metrics  that include our Trinidad operations. Trinidad operations""
""represented  1% of our total net proved reserves as of December 31, 2024, and  less than 5% of our total production in 2024. Our new near-term  emissions targets include emissions metrics from our U.S. and Trinidad  operations that are based on U.S. Environmental Protection Agency  (EPA) methodology as adopted in 2024. See the Data Tear Sheet and  Definitions for additional information. |  Dorado operations   Third-Party Verification and Assurance The data included in this report was subject to""
""internal review and  verification. The greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and energy use  data presented in this report were also subject to independent  third-party verification. The 2024 Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions and energy use data  in this report were verified at a reasonable level of assurance.  The 2024 Scope 3 GHG emissions data in this report were verified  at a limited level of assurance. Prior-year GHG emissions and energy use data included in the  Data Tear Sheet were subject to""
""independent third-party verification  and assurance in the year first reported. Refer to Internal and Third- Party Verification and Assurance for more information. Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 11 2024 Sustainability Report Introduction  13   Our Integrated Approach to Environmental Management 18         Climate 21      Managing Emissions      34  In Focus: Driving Continuous Performance  With Emissions Targets 35        Water Management 38     Spill Prevention and""
""Management 40      Biodiversity and Land Stewardship       43  In Focus: Advancing Effective Reclamation Environment Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 12 2024 Sustainability Report 2024 Sustainability Report Environment  Our Integrated Approach to Environmental Management EOG’s approach to environmental stewardship is based on the same  decentralized structure, operational and technological focus, and  innovative culture that drive our leadership in the exploration and""
""development of unconventional oil and natural gas plays. Supported  by companywide management systems and executive oversight, this  approach maintains our high standards of environmental performance,  while empowering innovation and operating area-specific practices. Each unconventional oil and natural gas play requires techniques  and technology that are tailored to meet the operating area’s unique  geological, geographic, economic, and other operational conditions.  EOG’s innovative culture""
""and decentralized structure foster these  play-specific solutions to optimally develop and maximize both the  value of any given asset and our ability to understand, protect, and  conserve the environmental resources of the local area. Our people are focused on identifying innovative approaches to minimize  our environmental footprint, improve the energy efficiency of our field  operations, and reduce emissions. We also work with local communities,  government, and other stakeholders in each""
""operating area to tailor our  environmental practices to address localized factors. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND OVERSIGHT In order to effectively manage day-to-day environmental matters  across our decentralized operations, environmental personnel  work across our operating area offices and field locations in addition  to our Houston headquarters. The Environmental and Sustainability Group is led by our companywide  Vice President, Environmental and Sustainability, who reports up to  our Chief""
""Operating Officer. The group meets regularly with our Chief  Operating Officer and other members of the senior leadership team to  discuss environmental management and performance topics, such as  emissions reduction strategies, and plays a critical role in assessing and  managing environmental risks across the company. The group also works closely with other multidisciplinary groups across  the company, including the Water Resources Team and our Operations  personnel, to manage and measure""
""environmental performance. |  Dorado operations Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 13 2024 Sustainability Report 2024 Sustainability Report Environment  Our Integrated Approach to Environmental Management (continued) OPERATIONAL PRACTICES AND TECHNOLOGIES Our commitment to environmental stewardship is implemented through management practices applied throughout the life cycle of our operations — from our initial exploration  efforts through the life of a well’s production and""
""decommissioning, reclamation, and restoration. The following practices and technologies — many of which are described in more  detail throughout this section — are just some of the efforts EOG undertakes to support our commitment to environmental stewardship throughout the operational life cycle. For more information on EOG’s efforts to conduct hydraulic fracturing operations in a safe and responsible manner, minimize waste disposal, and further understand seismic activity around our areas of""
""operations, see Hydraulic Fracturing, Waste Management, and Seismicity.   Drilling and Completions •     Reduce drilling days and associated  emissions footprint •      Limit disposal of drilling fluids through reuse  and recycling •        Use reduced emissions completions systems •     Minimize the use of chemical additives in  hydraulic fracturing fluid  •        Minimize freshwater use, supported  by TridentSM, our proprietary water  management application   Production •         Recycle""
""produced water for reuse  in operations •       Minimize or eliminate emissions,  including through:   – In-house GHG emissions performance and  environmental data collection and analysis  applications iEnergy and iEnvironmentalSM         – Flare reduction initiatives   – Installing instrument air systems to operate  pneumatic controllers and pumps •        Expanding continuous leak detection  through iSense® (our proprietary continuous  methane monitoring system) and aerial-based  survey""
""technologies   Infrastructure and Facilities •   Install oil, natural gas, and water  pipeline infrastructure to reduce truck  traffic and emissions  •  Limit our overall surface footprint with  multi-well pads and centralized production  and compression facilities  •     Design and implement enhanced spill  containment and mitigation controls,  including iDetectSM, our automated leak  detection software  •       Utilize real-time, remote facility monitoring  using Supervisory Control and Data""
""Acquisition (SCADA) systems   Decommissioning, Restoration,  and Reclamation •      Follow industry practices for plugging and  abandoning wells and surface reclamation  and restoration  •        Revegetate unused acreage during  reclamation and restoration of well sites and  facilities, using native plants where appropriate  •   Partner with stakeholders to restore land in a  manner responsive to the specific interests of  local communities and landowners Introduction Environment Governance""
""Appendix Social 14 2024 Sustainability Report 2024 Sustainability Report Environment  LEVERAGING TECHNOLOGY TO DRIVE  ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Our Information Systems Department has developed over 140 desktop  and mobile applications that provide data transparency and predictive  analytics to support continuous improvement across the company.  Applications focused on environmental performance and management  support our commitment to environmental stewardship by fostering data  sharing,""
""collaboration, and innovation throughout EOG. iDETECTSM Automated Leak Detection Software             iENERGY Operational GHG Emissions Performance Management Application             iENVIRONMENTALSM Environmental Data Collection and Analysis Application                    iSENSE® Continuous Methane Monitoring System             TRIDENTSM Real-Time Water Resources Management Application               Drilling and  Completions   Infrastructure  and Facilities   Production Applications and Data""
""Support Our Operational Life Cycle |  Dorado operations These applications also foster transparency and innovation throughout  the organization by: •    Facilitating real-time data capture, including daily reporting of water  reuse, potential leaks, and high-pressure flaring metrics •    Enabling mobile access to data and analysis •   Providing advanced measurement and tracking tools, including  real-time operational and financial data for select parameters •  Enhancing our ability to monitor""
""performance and set goals •    Supporting ongoing facility and equipment design optimization through  trend analysis and automation •  Equipping company personnel with information to make better,  faster, well-informed decisions   Decommissioning,  Restoration, and  Reclamation Our Integrated Approach to Environmental Management (continued) Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 15 2024 Sustainability Report 2024 Sustainability Report Environment  Our Integrated Approach to""
""Environmental Management (continued)   Management Oversight Environmental leaders from each of our operating areas provide  management oversight, regularly reviewing EOG’s environmental  performance and overseeing the development of strategies to improve  our processes. This system helps us further identify trends to enhance  the overall safety and environmental strategy for our organization.   Performance Goals We set annual environmental goals, and the data from our EMS allows  management to""
""assess performance on those goals systematically over  time. EOG considers environmental performance in evaluating employee  performance and compensation, including executive compensation.   Compliance We assess environmental performance and compliance under our  environmental permits; applicable federal, state, and local safety and  environmental rules and regulations; and EOG’s internal policies. On an  annual basis, EOG conducts certain targeted safety and environmental  site reviews across""
""our U.S. operating areas that focus on key  compliance requirements, management practice implementation, and  environmental performance. Site review findings are communicated to  operating areas, where personnel use them to identify and implement  proactive actions and opportunities for process improvements.   Environmental Management Applications We leverage information technology to drive innovation and performance  improvement. This includes internally developed and third-party software""
""applications, which we use to organize large quantities of data so it  can be easily analyzed, monitored, and maintained to improve our  day-to-day operations. This integrated data system is used to track  regulatory monitoring and reporting schedules, environmental incidents,  and process changes that are being implemented. See Leveraging  Technology to Drive Environmental Performance and Applying Technology  to Support Environmental Management for more information.   Contractor Management Our""
""contractor onboarding process includes an orientation on EOG’s  environmental management and stewardship expectations to help  promote sound environmental practices by our contractors.   Training Regular training on environmental topics is important for  consistent performance. We train employees and contractors  on a variety of topics, including:  •        Environmental stewardship  •    Optical gas imaging (OGI) training for EOG’s leak detection and repair  (LDAR) program  •       Spill""
""prevention, control, and countermeasures (SPCCs)    Safety and Environmental Policy EOG’s Safety and Environmental Policy details our commitment to  safeguard people and the environment by making performance the  responsibility of every EOG employee and contractor. See Key Elements  of Our Safety and Environmental Policy for more information.   Communication and Engagement We communicate and engage with employees on environmental topics  through a variety of forums, including dedicated""
""roundtables and an  intranet site. We also engage with external stakeholders on environmental  topics. For example, we engage with local community members and  groups on conservation efforts, and with regulators and elected officials  to educate and create open dialogue on issues affecting our company  and industry. In addition, we have an Innovation Awards program that recognizes  and rewards employees who develop initiatives to help improve our  environmental or safety performance or benefit""
""the communities where  we live and work. The program is designed to encourage our culture of  innovation, employee empowerment, and continuous improvement. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS EOG’s environmental management systems (EMS) provide a framework for managing our environmental processes and performance. Our EMS help maintain our high standards of  environmental performance by supporting the integration of proactive environmental stewardship into our planning, development, and decision-""
""making. Our EMS also support real-time data  collection and transparency, which helps us identify and manage environmental risks and drive opportunities for continuous improvement. Components of our EMS include: Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 16 2024 Sustainability Report Environment  APPLYING TECHNOLOGY TO SUPPORT  ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT iEnvironmental (and its mobile counterpart miEnvironmental) is the  foundation of our environmental data systems, which integrates data""
""collection, calculation, analysis, and management across emissions,  waste, spills, and other areas. The application provides for in-field data  collection and calculations, which facilitates easy access to data and  calculation tools. It also increases accessibility and transparency through  data dashboards that facilitate reviewing performance and identifying  improvement opportunities. In addition, iEnvironmental also: •   Integrates with and enhances inputs from third-party data  analysis""
""data review and identifies opportunities for improvement  through dashboard views in the application Flexibility and adaptability are central to iEnvironmental, and we continue  to expand and evolve this data engine to incorporate new tools, data,  processes, and regulatory changes based on our performance and  reporting needs. PLANNING FOR WEATHER EVENTS  AND RELATED PHYSICAL RISKS As part of the process for evaluating and planning our operations,  EOG considers how to mitigate relevant""
""physical risks from weather  changes and extreme weather events such as floods, hurricanes,  and intense heat and cold. We operate a diversified portfolio of assets across multiple regions  with unique environmental and weather-related considerations.  Our decentralized structure enables us to apply our localized  knowledge, so that we are prepared for the weather-related physical  risks specific to each of our operating areas. For instance, in areas  known to flood, we build drainage systems""
""and protective structures  to help prevent flooding at our facilities. Across our operating areas,  including areas prone to water scarcity, EOG is focused on reducing  the use of fresh water. In areas prone to extreme heat, we take  measures to protect the health and safety of our employees and  contractors, including using cooling trailers. EOG also operates control centers built to manage operations in  our most active areas. In the event of severe weather, EOG can  remotely monitor the""
""production and infrastructure of an impacted  operating area from one of our control centers and, if needed, safely  shut down operations. |  Powder River Basin operations Our Integrated Approach to Environmental Management (continued) Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 17 2024 Sustainability Report 2024 Sustainability Report Environment  Climate We believe oil and natural gas will remain an essential part of the  long-term global energy supply with demand gravitating toward the""
""producers that are most efficient from both a capital and an emissions  perspective. We aim to play a significant role in the long-term future  of energy by being among the highest return, lowest cost producers  committed to strong environmental performance. Global supply and demand for crude oil and natural gas are affected  by several factors, including consumer demand and behavior, the  availability of alternative energy sources, general economic conditions,  geopolitical events, and carbon-""
""related regulations and policy initiatives.  At the same time, reliable and affordable energy is critical to providing  energy security and supporting economic development and opportunity  for a growing global population. EOG is focused on helping meet the  combined challenges of responding to growing demand for energy and  doing so in a responsible way. Forecasts of how to meet global energy demand in the future are  wide-ranging. Uncertainties in the timing and scale of specific climate-""
""related efforts and technologies add unique challenges to predicting  future supply, demand, and commodity prices. However, commodity  price volatility caused by supply and demand factors outside our direct  control, such as the business cycle, general economic and geopolitical  conditions, and regulatory changes, is a risk we are long accustomed  to managing as an oil and natural gas company. MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND OVERSIGHT We seek to further manage climate-related risks while responsibly""
""meeting  the needs of global energy demand by working to minimize our costs and  our emissions and providing secure, affordable energy. See Management  of Climate-Related Matters for additional efforts we take related to the  management of climate-related risks and opportunities.  Our Board of Directors retains primary responsibility for risk oversight  and delegates certain elements of its oversight to one or more of its  standing committees to assist with its risk oversight responsibility.  To""
""assist the Board of Directors and its committees in their oversight  of climate-related risks, members of our management report to our  Board of Directors and Nominating, Governance and Sustainability  Committee on EOG’s environmental performance, climate-related  scenario analyses, sustainability disclosures, and stakeholder feedback  on environmental, safety, and sustainability-related matters and other  issues, in addition to reviewing trends and other industry information.  See Board of""
""Directors Risk Oversight Function for more information  on risk oversight. |  Appalachian Basin operations Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 18 2024 Sustainability Report 2024 Sustainability Report Environment    Governance Framework •     Our Board of Directors, together with the  Nominating, Governance and Sustainability  Committee, maintains primary responsibility  for oversight and guidance of EOG’s  environmental performance, including risks  associated with climate""
""change. •   Executive compensation is linked to  environmental performance, including GHG  and flaring emissions intensity rates, methane  emissions percentage, and wellhead gas  capture rate. •  Executive management is responsible for  EOG’s climate-related risk management  efforts, which include reviewing analyses  of climate-related strategies, risks, and  opportunities and guiding related goals  and ambitions.   Ambition, Targets, and Performance •   Achieved target to reduce GHG intensity""
""rate to 13.5 metric tons CO2e/MBoe for  U.S. operations by 2025. •     Achieved target to reduce methane  emissions percentage to 0.06% for  U.S. operations by 2025. •        Achieved target to achieve zero routine flaring  for companywide operations by 2025. •  Set new near-term emissions targets in 2025  (see Driving Continuous Performance With  Emissions Targets for more information  on new emissions targets). •     Set ambition to achieve net zero Scope 1  and Scope 2 GHG emissions.  ""
""Management Approach •   Follow a disciplined capital allocation strategy of  developing high-return, low-cost reserves while  focusing on strong environmental performance. •   Monitor and assess climate change-related  regulatory, legal, operational, and reputational  issues that could affect EOG and the oil and  natural gas industry, to determine the potential  impact on our business and operations and take  action where appropriate. •        Conduct climate-related scenario analyses and""
""evaluate and review results, including regarding the  resilience of our portfolio. •     Enhance data collection and analysis capabilities to  inform our emissions reduction strategy. •        Leverage our proprietary applications and  technical capabilities to identify and implement  emissions reduction initiatives throughout our  operations where appropriate. •    Improve capital efficiency and emissions intensity  across operations by investing in technology and  process innovations. •""
""Develop and invest in technological innovations to  capture operational Scope 1 emissions. •    Evaluate tools and mechanisms to address  Scope 2 emissions. •  Engage with shareholders and other stakeholders  on climate-related matters. •  Participate in industry initiatives, such as the Oil &  Gas Methane Partnership 2.0 (OGMP 2.0), which  are designed to support improvements in the  accuracy and transparency of methane emissions  reporting (see OGMP 2.0 Participation Drives  Increased""
""Transparency in Methane Emissions  Performance for more information). Climate (continued) MANAGEMENT OF CLIMATE-RELATED MATTERS The table below describes certain aspects of our operations and other activities that support our management of climate-related regulatory, legal, operational, and reputational matters. Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 19 2024 Sustainability Report Environment  SCENARIO ANALYSIS EOG conducts scenario analysis to inform our evaluation of the resilience""
""of our portfolio under different climate-related scenarios that consider  various market and policy conditions. This analysis also supports our  ongoing efforts to identify and manage climate-related risks, including  those related to changes in the global energy demand and supply mix and  global climate change policy. We considered the Announced Pledges Scenario (APS) from the  International Energy Agency’s (IEA’s) World Energy Outlook (WEO) 2024  in conducting our analysis. The WEO uses a""
""model to estimate the  future supply, demand, and prices for oil and natural gas under various  hypothetical scenarios. The APS is based on the assumption that all of  the climate commitments made by countries, industries, and companies  around the world, including Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs)  and net zero targets, will be achieved in full and on time and illustrates how  far current pledges will go in helping to reach the Paris Agreement’s goal of  limiting global average""
""temperature increases to well below 2°C. The APS  is widely recognized and used to assess portfolio resilience within the oil  and natural gas industry under a carbon-constrained scenario. Under the APS, demand for oil and natural gas is projected to decrease  by 2040; however, oil and natural gas remain significant sources to meet   future energy demands during the same period. Our analysis used a reference case model for our companywide operations  running through 2040. To be conservative, we""
""did not assume that  successful exploration will add to our current inventory. Other assumptions  used to develop our reference case model included the following: •         A commodity price outlook for our U.S. inventory determined by the APS  pricing assumptions beginning in 2030 and based on strip pricing in  earlier years, which averaged $68.10 Brent per barrel of oil ($64.00 West  Texas Intermediate equivalent per barrel of oil) and $3.29 per million Btu  of natural gas over the life of the""
""scenario. •     Carbon dioxide (CO2) taxes in advanced economies of $135 per  metric ton beginning in 2030 and growing to $175 per metric ton  by 2040, as forecasted by the APS. The reference case model used  projections for our U.S. Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions.  These assumptions resulted in additional costs that grow to  approximately $3.30 per Boe by 2040. •       For our Trinidad inventory, only the volumes and related pricing  covered by current short-term contracts. Trinidad""
""$50 per barrel of oil and $2 per thousand cubic feet of natural  gas in place of APS pricing assumptions. Using the same CO2 tax  and dividend growth assumptions, and modified production growth  assumptions, the more conservative commodity price scenario still  yielded significant profitability and free cash flow.  The scenarios we evaluated are not predictions of the future. Rather,  they test the resilience of our portfolio over time under various possible  climate-related scenarios. We""
""believe the results of the analysis confirm  the resiliency of EOG’s portfolio against climate-related risks to long-term  commodity pricing and demand. Climate (continued) For more information on assumptions and scenarios used in  this analysis, see Scenario Analysis and Third-Party Scenarios. |  Oklahoma City office Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 20 2024 Sustainability Report 2024 Sustainability Report Environment  Managing Emissions Our approach to reducing emissions""
""remains operationally focused.  We invest in and pilot new technologies and processes to reduce,  monitor, and manage emissions. This approach helps us lower our  operational emissions today, while also serving as learning mechanisms  to drive future innovations. Our approach is supported by key elements of EOG’s culture: •    Decentralized, Empowered Employees — Employees across  the company are empowered to take an active role in developing  innovative, fit-for-purpose solutions to address""
""emissions. •    Collaborative, Multidisciplinary Teams — Employees in multiple  disciplines collaborate to share ideas and implement solutions to  reduce emissions in their operating areas and across the company.  •         Centralized Oversight — Our executive leadership team maintains  oversight of emissions performance and updates our Board of  Directors and the Nominating, Governance and Sustainability  Committee on this topic regularly. •         Transparent, Real-Time Data Capture — We""
""leverage data in our  efforts to reduce GHG and methane emissions to support future  performance improvements.  •      Innovative Information System Technology Solutions — Our  proprietary applications and analytics tools, combined with the  use of in-field and information systems technology, help us identify  opportunities to better understand, measure, and manage emissions. OVERSIGHT AND EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Executive management, our Board of Directors, and the Nominating,  Governance and""
""Sustainability Committee regularly review performance  against our emissions targets to support continued, strong performance. Additionally, emissions performance is considered in executive  compensation. For 2024, our GHG and flaring intensity rate and  methane emission percentage intensity performance, as well as  wellhead gas capture rate, were included as part of a separately  weighted, environmental performance goal considered when  determining our executives’ annual bonuses. See Executive""
""Compensation for more information on compensation, including  2025 safety- and environmental-related goals. EMISSIONS TARGETS AND AMBITION We have established emissions targets and a long-term net zero  ambition to drive continued improvement and innovation in our  emissions performance. Our initial quantitative, near-term emissions  targets were established in 2020 and targeted achievement by the end  of 2025. After achieving each of these targets early, we announced  earlier this year that we""
""have developed a new set of near-term  emissions targets. See 2025 Targets and Achievements and Driving  Continuous Performance With Emissions Targets for additional  information on existing and new targets.    2025 Targets and Achievements In 2024, we continued to demonstrate strong  performance relative to our 2025 targets. 13.5 GHG Intensity Rate by 2025  Achieved in 2022, 2023, and 2024 0.06% Methane Emissions Percentage by 2025  Achieved in 2022, 2023, and 2024 Zero Routine Flaring by 2025""
""Achieved in 2023 and 2024 We believe our targets help us drive meaningful and measurable  emissions intensity reductions while also focusing on enhancing long- term sustainability. Our long-term ambition to reach net zero Scope 1  and Scope 2 GHG emissions helps set the long-term direction for our  efforts to address emissions from our operations.  Since announcing our net zero ambition in 2021, we have continued  to track developments related to our progress. We have made steady  progress in""
""our reduction and capture efforts, and we see significant  potential for further improvement as technology and regulatory  frameworks continue to evolve. While the pace of these external  developments can be unpredictable, we remain committed to our net  zero ambition and will continue to adapt our approach as advancements  emerge — maintaining flexibility rather than continuing with a fixed target  date at this time. At the same time, we are focused on providing safe  and reliable operations""
""with strong environmental performance, while  generating long-term value for shareholders. Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 21 2024 Sustainability Report Environment  Managing Emissions (continued) Emissions Reduction Pathways Our current and future efforts to address emissions from our operations fall into three primary categories: reduce, capture, and offset. The following table provides more information on  the innovative technologies and practices that support our efforts.""
""Approach Technologies, Practices, and Achievements   Reduce Reducing emissions intensity from our operations is an immediate and direct path to reducing  our carbon footprint. By focusing our efforts first on reducing emissions, we have made a  number of technical innovations and operational advancements that have enabled significant  reductions in our Scope 1 emissions intensities over the past several years. We are evaluating  tools and other mechanisms to manage Scope 2 emissions. •""
""Achieved zero routine flaring •         Optimizing wellhead and facility gas capture systems •  Implementing closed-loop gas capture and continuous leak detection (iSense®) •  Minimizing combustion-related emissions through compressor and artificial lift optimization •   Expanding emission monitoring efforts through increased LDAR surveys, iSense deployment,  and aerial-based survey technologies   Capture We are exploring technology to capture carbon emissions from our operations.  In 2023, we""
""commenced CO2 injection in our carbon capture and storage pilot project.  See Carbon Capture and Storage for more information. •     Operating carbon capture and storage (CCS) pilot project •      Prioritizing pure stream CO2 emissions locations for CCS •      Evaluating additional CCS locations   Offset We will evaluate options to offset GHG emissions as needed. •      Evaluating projects and other options to offset remaining emissions   EOG’s New Near-Term Emissions Targets |  Appalachian""
""Basin operations Reduce GHG Emissions  Intensity Rate* Maintain Near-Zero  Methane Emissions* Maintain Zero  Routine Flaring 25% from 2019 By 2030 0.20% or less 2025–2030 Zero routine flaring 2025–2030 * See Definitions for more information on calculation methodology and boundaries. Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 22 2024 Sustainability Report Environment  Managing Emissions (continued) EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT PRACTICES EOG takes a proactive approach to managing and minimizing""
""greenhouse gas emissions from our operations, including developing and  implementing innovative technologies and practices. We also are focused  on increasing the accuracy and transparency of our emissions data. Innovative Technologies and Practices We have implemented many technologies and practices over the last  several years that we continue to deploy throughout our operations to  minimize emissions. We believe these efforts helped us achieve our 2025  emissions targets and will continue to""
""support our work toward meeting  our new emissions targets and net zero ambition. One way we encourage continued innovation is at our Production  Technology Center, a laboratory available to all of our operating teams to  test and develop new, and apply existing, technologies and solutions to  improve operational and emissions performance. Many of the practices and technologies used by EOG were possible  because we operate significant portions of our own gathering and  boosting infrastructure.""
""This increased operational control and footprint  allows us to further optimize how we manage our operations to drive  emissions reductions across a larger scope of the value chain. Emissions Management Technology and Practices Emissions  Reduction  Technologies •         Low-bleed and no-bleed pneumatic controllers •  Instrument air systems •        Engines equipped with emissions control  technology •   Electric- and solar-powered pumps •     Specialized control equipment, such as vapor""
""recovery units and towers, vapor balance  systems, high-efficiency combustion devices  and compression (e.g., turbines), and multistage  separators •     Electricity infrastructure to support use of electric  equipment •      iSense continuous leak detection •      Carbon capture and storage •    Aerial emissions monitoring (e.g., flyovers  and satellites) Efficient  Facility Design  Practices •    Centralized facilities, including multi-well pads  and centralized gas lift, allow for sharing""
""equipment and eliminate the need for multiple  separators and tanks, which reduces emissions Data  Management  Practices •      iEnvironmental data collection and management  system to track, anticipate, and manage our  operational emissions •     Improved emissions measurement and  calculation approaches (see Emissions  Data Management and Measurement for  more information) •     Greater visibility on GHG emissions using  iEnergy down to the equipment level Emissions Data Management and""
""Measurement As a data- and performance-focused company, we believe that  increasing the accuracy and transparency of emissions data will help  advance our emissions management efforts. Understanding how  and where emissions occur can lead to more accurate detection and  quantification. Having a more accurate picture of our emissions helps us  evaluate emissions performance across our operating areas, enhance  data-driven planning to identify potential opportunities for improvement,  and more""
""efficiently focus our mitigation efforts. As a result, we are focused on developing and implementing innovative  technologies and practices to collect and calculate more detailed, real- time data to better understand, measure, and manage emissions and  support further improvements across our operations.  Our Information Systems Department collaborates with our operating  teams to develop and implement proprietary applications to optimize  equipment efficiency, reduce emissions from our""
""operations, and  manage our operational GHG emissions performance. For example,  we developed iEnergy, a proprietary data visualization tool, to help  track, anticipate, and manage our operational emissions and provide  greater visibility on GHG emissions. As technologies, methodologies, and requirements for emissions  detection, quantification, and measurement evolve, we continue to  enhance and refine our emissions inventory data and emissions  reduction efforts. We are also proactively""
""working to enhance our emissions  measurement approach by collecting and analyzing data,  as well as by supporting the development of measurement- based emissions reporting through our membership in the  Oil & Gas Methane Partnership 2.0 (OGMP 2.0). See OGMP  2.0 Participation Drives Increased Transparency in Methane  Emissions Reporting for more information.  |  Production Technology Center Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 23 2024 Sustainability Report Environment  OPERATING""
""PRACTICES We take a comprehensive approach to managing emissions associated  with sources across our operations, including combustion, flaring,  pneumatics, and other emissions sources such as fugitives, from early  planning stages through ongoing production. Flaring Minimizing flaring is a priority for EOG, as our flare management  technologies and practices not only reduce the need to flare and lower  our overall emissions footprint, but also help us to maximize gas capture,   which increases""
""the amount of natural gas we are able to process and  sell. We continually review all processes where flaring can occur — such  as during drilling and completion operations, during gas production and  separation operations, and at storage tanks. Our operational approach to flaring includes active management and  oversight of our operations, aided by information technology, advance  infrastructure planning, and in-field technology innovation.  Daily operations are actively managed to minimize""
""and Eliminate Flaring Advance Infrastructure Planning We install infrastructure and plan for takeaway optionality early in the life  of a play to minimize flaring. These efforts include: •         Planning for and installing sufficient gathering and takeaway  infrastructure to transport our production early in the development of  a play, particularly in oil plays with associated natural gas •  Planning for the regulatory permitting process well in advance of the  need for infrastructure""
""construction to begin •  Securing the ability to sell to multiple markets to provide takeaway  options for our natural gas production and mitigate the effects of  downstream market interruptions •     Establishing control centers for our most active areas to manage  the flow of our natural gas in real time and avoid interruptions in  executing our takeaway plans In-Field Practices and Technologies We further reduce or eliminate flaring in our operations through the use  of internally developed""
""practices and technologies in the field, including: •         Routing natural gas to on-site separators during completion  operations rather than flaring •   Capturing tank vapors from storage tanks and routing them back to  the sales line through vapor recovery equipment •    Implementing practices and technologies to improve the efficiency of  our vapor recovery systems to capture gas •       Rerouting natural gas back into existing wells when downstream  interruptions occur, using closed-loop""
""gas capture •    Applying our proprietary applications to manage and monitor  operational conditions and lower the potential for flaring, through  prevention of operational circumstances that require flaring Managing Emissions (continued) Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 24 2024 Sustainability Report Environment  Combustion EOG is focused on continuing to identify opportunities to optimize  compressor and artificial lift operations to minimize combustion  emissions. These""
""efforts include: •       Utilizing and testing lean fuels, evaluating fuel substitutions, and  using electric-powered equipment •        Using in-house proprietary applications to automate and optimize  artificial lift, a process that enhances oil recovery from wells, which  supports reducing gas lift volumes and compression needed to  inject gas •   Expanding the use of centralized compressors, which replace many  small combustion engines with larger, more efficient engines  •       Installing""
""electricity infrastructure to permit the use of electric-powered  (versus fuel-powered) equipment in certain operating areas Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) Our approach to CCS supports our ongoing efforts to address  operational emissions and progress the capture portion of our emissions  reductions pathways. CCS requires multiple disciplines inherent to  EOG’s current operational skill set, including subsurface geology,  well drilling and completions, and facility engineering and design. We""
""currently operate a pilot project that captures concentrated  carbon dioxide emissions from the treating of natural gas within our  operations and injects it at a facility in Texas. The pilot project has  provided us insights into carbon capture and transportation systems,  reservoir characteristics for carbon sequestration, and long-term  monitoring and verification. CCS at EOG Natural Gas CO2 Storage CCS Pilot Project  Areas of Focus Areas of focus in bringing our  pilot project online""
""included: •  Conducting research and  due diligence to identify a  storage site with favorable  geological characteristics •         Performing a thorough  assessment of potential  migration pathways •    Designing the well and  selecting completion materials  for long-term integrity •       Implementing monitoring  strategies to verify  CO2 containment 1  Capture CO2 at the source 2  Compress and transport to  injection site 3  Inject into subsurface for  permanent geologic storage Managing""
""Emissions (continued) Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 25 2024 Sustainability Report Environment  Methane Reducing methane emissions is a central focus of our emissions  management and reduction efforts. Because methane is the primary  component of natural gas, minimizing methane leaks and maximizing  recapture gives us more product to sell. In addition, methane’s higher  global warming potential compared to CO2 makes it an important  focus for overall GHG emissions""
""management. We remain focused on minimizing and eliminating methane emissions to  maintain strong, consistent methane performance. Our approach focuses  both on capturing the natural gas that we produce and minimizing  methane emissions from equipment used in our operations.  Two areas where we focus on reducing methane emissions in our  operations are natural gas-actuated pneumatics and fugitive emissions  from other equipment.  Pneumatics Program We have implemented a comprehensive program""
""focused on reducing  emissions from pneumatic controllers and pumps. This program includes: •    Replacing, retrofitting, or removing 100% of high-bleed natural  gas-powered pneumatic controllers —   achieved in 2019 •       Installing instrument air systems to operate pneumatic controllers  and pumps •         Installing or retrofitting pneumatic pumps to utilize electric and/or  solar power Leak Detection and Repair Program Each of EOG’s operating areas has an ongoing leak detection and repair""
""(LDAR) program that detects leaks throughout our facilities, including at  central tank batteries, compressor stations, and production facilities.   While LDAR programs are required for certain EOG locations by state  regulations and/or federal regulations, EOG has also implemented a  voluntary LDAR program across our operations at facilities that are not  otherwise subject to regulatory LDAR requirements and has enhanced  its LDAR program in some operating areas by increasing the frequency  of""
""surveys.  EOG’s LDAR program contributes to minimizing methane emissions  at our facilities and supports identification of additional reduction  opportunities. Elements of the program include: •     Component-level Monitoring — We monitor emissions from a  variety of components — such as connectors, pressure relief valves,  controllers, and tank thief hatches — on our in-field equipment. •       AVO Inspections — We conduct audio, visual, and olfactory  (AVO) inspections to identify and manage""
""emissions as part of  other field and facility visits. •    OGI Technology — A substantial part of the monitoring that occurs  under our LDAR program is performed using OGI equipment, such as  infrared cameras and other thermal imaging technology. •   Proprietary Automated LDAR Systems — We use iEnvironmental  and its mobile counterpart miEnvironmental to electronically capture  LDAR data and facilitate repairs, which helps to improve the accuracy  of our data, identify trends, eliminate paper-""
""based processes, and  record real-time data directly in the field.  •    Proprietary Continuous Leak Detection System — We utilize  iSense, our in-house methane monitoring system, to continuously  monitor facilities and provide real-time alerts of potential leaks to a  control center. See iSense Continuous Leak Detection System for  more information. •       Monitoring-frequency Guidelines — In 2024, we visited  approximately 94% of facilities at least twice during the year with  leak detection""
""equipment, and the other 6% at least once. •         Timely Repair and Resurvey — Once a leak is identified, we follow  time-based protocols for the repair and the resurvey of repaired  components that are supported with software and automation. •      Documentation, Review, and Retention — Our LDAR program  includes requirements for record maintenance and retention. See Methane Emissions Reduction Practices for additional  details on the technologies and practices in use to minimize  methane""
""emissions in our operations.  |  Delaware Basin operations Managing Emissions (continued) Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 26 2024 Sustainability Report 2024 Sustainability Report Environment  METHANE EMISSIONS REDUCTION PRACTICES Technology or Practice Description Benefit Pneumatics Program •  Replaced, removed, or retrofitted all high-bleed, natural gas-powered pneumatic  controllers in our operations •        Install compressed air instead of natural gas for pneumatic""
""operations and retrofit  existing devices •         Reduces or eliminates methane emissions from operational equipment (for more  information, see Pneumatics Program) Minimizing Flaring •         Conduct oversight and review of operational processes where flaring can occur to  identify opportunities for reducing or eliminating flaring •  Committed to zero routine flaring by 2025, as an endorser of the World Bank’s Zero  Routine Flaring by 2030 Initiative —   achieved in 2023 and 2024 •  Reduces""
""emissions and increases volume of gas sent to market, resulting in greater  product recovery (for more information, see Flaring) LDAR Program •         Conduct periodic leak detection inspections utilizing OGI and other on-site methods  to identify methane leaks at the component level •         Supports improved identification of methane emissions sources and leak repair  responsiveness (for more information, see Leak Detection and Repair Program) •   Supports identification of equipment""
""improvements through analysis of component- level leak inspection data Aerial-Based Technologies •         Use of aerial-based technologies, such as drones and airplanes, to identify potentially  elevated methane concentrations at the site and equipment level •      Supports improved identification of methane emissions sources and  leak repair responsiveness Satellites •      Use of satellite technology to enhance identification of potentially elevated methane  concentrations at the site level •""
""Supports improved identification of methane emissions sources and  leak repair responsiveness iSense •  Implement proprietary continuous methane monitoring system •    Supports improved identification of methane emissions sources and leak repair  responsiveness (for more information, see iSense Continuous Leak Detection System) Gas Vapor Capture •   Collect gas vapors using low-pressure vapor recovery towers during separation and  vapor capture systems on tanks •     Captures vapors that would""
""have otherwise been released or flared, resulting in  enhanced product recovery Combustion Efficiency •      Install centralized gas lift facilities to reduce total horsepower required  to maintain production •   Use control rooms and proprietary applications to optimize combustion  engine operations •      Reduces methane emissions from combustion engines Managing Emissions (continued) Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 27 2024 Sustainability Report Environment  iSENSE®""
""CONTINUOUS LEAK DETECTION SYSTEM We have developed our own in-house methane monitoring solution,  named iSense, which uses methane-sensing technology to continuously  monitor facilities and provide real-time alerts of potential leaks to a  control center. Having an in-house system allows us to own the data — through its  creation, flow, and storage — which provides flexibility for improving both  information quality and the tools needed to analyze and integrate iSense  metrics with existing""
""operational data from our production facilities. This  information, along with our ability to monitor operations in our most  active areas from our control centers, enhances our 24/7 capability to  continuously identify, prioritize, and repair methane leaks. As we continue to pair data from iSense with other real-time production  and facilities data, we expect continued improvements to our facility  design to further minimize releases. iSense Implementation Since initially piloting this""
""technology, our employees have been  deploying iSense in the field, prioritizing the areas of highest potential  impact. We continued to roll out iSense in additional operating areas  in 2024. 99% Coverage in Delaware Basin as of YE 2024* * Based on percentage of gross oil production handled at central tank  batteries covered by iSense. |  Appalachian Basin operations Managing Emissions (continued) Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 28 2024 Sustainability Report 2024""
""Sustainability Report Environment  OGMP 2.0 PARTICIPATION DRIVES  INCREASED TRANSPARENCY IN  METHANE EMISSIONS REPORTING In 2023, EOG joined OGMP 2.0, a multistakeholder initiative  developed by the United Nations Environment Programme and  the Climate and Clean Air Coalition. EOG committed to reporting  on methane emissions consistent with the OGMP 2.0 Framework,  which is a comprehensive measurement-based reporting  framework for the oil and gas industry designed to improve  transparency of""
""methane emissions reporting.  The OGMP 2.0 Framework aligns with EOG’s commitment to  continuous improvement by leveraging data to help improve our  operations and emissions performance. We believe our involvement  in OGMP 2.0 demonstrates our support for transparent data  collection and reporting, while also encouraging industrywide  innovation and progress to reduce methane emissions. We submitted our OGMP 2.0 implementation plan in May 2024  and achieved Gold Standard Pathway. As a part of""
""our submittal,  we provided companywide methane emissions disclosures  in alignment with OGMP 2.0’s methane emissions reporting  methodology. Because OGMP 2.0’s reporting methodology  differs from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA)  Greenhouse Gas Reporting Protocol methodology, which EOG  uses to calculate methane emissions disclosed in this report,  OGMP 2.0 report data may differ from the methane data  included in this Sustainability Report. EOG’S IMPLEMENTATION OF THE""
""ENVIRONMENTAL PARTNERSHIP’S GOALS EOG is a member of The Environmental Partnership, a collaborative  effort of more than 100 oil and natural gas companies committed  to continuously improving environmental performance in member  operations across the United States. The Partnership’s goals include accelerating methane emissions  reductions through specific environmental performance programs that  members have committed to implementing within their operations and  providing a platform for the""
""industry to collaborate with stakeholders and  share best practices and new technologies. See the accompanying table  for more information on EOG’s implementation of The Environmental  Partnership’s programs. The Environmental Partnership’s Goals EOG Activities A program to replace, remove, or retrofit high-bleed  pneumatic controllers. EOG successfully replaced, removed, or retrofitted all high-bleed natural  gas-powered pneumatic controllers by the end of 2019. Additionally,  EOG continued""
""converting low-bleed and intermittent-vent pneumatic  controllers to instrument air. A leak detection and repair program for natural gas and  oil production facilities. EOG surveyed over 2,900 sites and completed over 19,000 surveys.  See Leak Detection and Repair Program for more information. Monitoring the manual liquids unloading process on  natural gas wells to prevent wellhead venting. 100% of manual liquid unloading events performed were  monitored by personnel. A flare management program""
""to reduce flaring of associated gas  from oil production. EOG is committed to reducing routine flaring of associated gas.  EOG had a U.S. wellhead gas capture rate of 99.9%. We also  committed to companywide zero routine flaring by 2025, which  we achieved in 2023 and 2024. 2024 Progress  |  Delaware Basin operations Managing Emissions (continued) Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 29 2024 Sustainability Report Environment  U.S. SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS For the metrics disclosed in""
""this section, we provide U.S. Scope 1 GHG  emissions as reported to the EPA, pursuant to the Greenhouse Gas  Reporting Program. We also include emissions that are subject to the  EPA Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program that fall below the EPA’s basin  reporting threshold, which would otherwise go unreported. We measure  emissions and calculate our emissions intensity in total and broken out by  constituent gases and sources, to help us track the effectiveness of our  emissions reduction efforts.""
""Our intensity rates are reported as a measure  of emissions per unit of production. Evaluating changes in our U.S. GHG intensity rate and methane  emissions percentage by source enhances our ability to manage our  emissions and identify areas for improvement. Year-over-year variances  in emissions intensities can be driven by both changes in operational  practices and technologies as well as refinements in emissions  calculations. Our focus is on identifying and implementing operational""
""improvements, which include process refinements, equipment changes,  and efficiencies. We also work to continuously improve the quality of  emissions data and to increase the accuracy of emissions calculations  and quantification. Further, we obtained independent third-party verification and reasonable  assurance of our U.S. Scope 1 GHG emissions data in the following  charts and included in our Data Tear Sheet.  U.S. Constituent Gases EOG’s U.S. Scope 1 GHG emissions are composed of carbon""
""dioxide, methane, and nitrous oxide in the following percentages  for 2024. 4.5%  Methane 0.1%  Nitrous Oxide 95.4%  Carbon Dioxide |  Dorado operations For more detailed descriptions of the metrics included in  this section and information regarding the methodology used  to calculate them, including formulas and carbon dioxide  equivalent (CO2e) conversion factors, see the Appendix. Managing Emissions (continued) Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 30 2024 Sustainability Report""
""2024 Sustainability Report Environment  Managing Emissions (continued) U.S. GHG Emissions and Year-Over-Year Variances Our GHG intensity rate remained relatively flat in 2024 as compared  with 2023. The main drivers were an increase in combustion GHG  intensity rate and a decrease in flaring and other sources GHG intensity  rate. See below for additional information on drivers by source.  Absolute emissions and production increased due to increased  operational activity compared to 2023. (See""
""Data Tear Sheet for  absolute emissions metrics.) GHG Intensity Rate — Total and by Source   Pneumatics   Other Sources   Flaring   Combustion 2025 Target 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 14.0 13.3 13.2 13.2 13.5 13.6 Combustion Our combustion GHG intensity rate increased in 2024, due  to increased drilling and completion activity and fuel used for  production operations in some of our most active operating areas.  (See Combustion for more information.) Flaring Our flaring GHG intensity rate decreased""
""in 2024. We continued  to install equipment at our production facilities to minimize low- pressure flaring. In addition, continued focus on operational practices,  including active management, employee oversight, and control center  supervision, contributed to continued decreases in overall flaring  intensity. (See Flaring for more information.) Pneumatics Our pneumatics GHG intensity rate remained relatively flat in  2024. Our current program to use solar power or instrument air  for pneumatic""
""pumps and controllers at new facilities, where feasible,  and to retrofit pneumatic pumps at existing facilities, contributed  to maintaining our pneumatics GHG intensity rate performance.  (See Pneumatics Program for more information.) Other Sources Our other sources GHG intensity rate decreased in 2024.  Capturing and injecting carbon dioxide associated with treating  natural gas at our CCS pilot project contributed to the decrease.  (See Carbon Capture and Storage for more information.) | ""
""Dorado operations metric tons CO2e/MBoe Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 31 2024 Sustainability Report Environment  U.S. METHANE EMISSIONS AND  YEAR-OVER-YEAR VARIANCE Our methane emissions percentage remained flat from 2023 to 2024.  We remain focused on minimizing and eliminating methane emissions  to maintain strong, consistent methane performance. Our approach  focuses both on capturing the natural gas that we produce and  minimizing methane emissions from equipment used""
""in our operations.  We have made significant progress on reducing our methane  emissions intensity over the past few years, driven largely by our  efforts to reduce flaring, convert pneumatic controllers and pumps,  and increase frequency of LDAR monitoring. Our ongoing efforts will  include implementing operational improvements to reduce emissions  associated with combustion, as well as continuing to evaluate  technologies and methodologies that advance our ability to detect,  measure, and""
""quantify methane emissions. * We present our methane emissions both as a percentage metric relative solely to our natural gas production and as an intensity rate relative to our total gross operated production.  We believe presenting both of these methane metrics allows for consistency with the other GHG metrics presented in this report and greater comparability with peer reporting and  industry target-setting frameworks, which vary in calculation methodology. Methane Emissions Percentage —""
""Total and by Source*   Pneumatics   Flaring   Other Sources   Combustion 2025 Target 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 0.06% 0.04% 0.04% 0.04% 0.06% 0.08% Methane Intensity Rate* 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 0.7 0.5 0.5 0.6 0.8 See Methane Emissions Reduction Practices for additional  details on the technologies and practices in use to minimize  methane emissions in our operations. methane emitted/gross natural gas production metric tons CO2e/MBoe Managing Emissions (continued) Introduction Environment""
""Governance Appendix Social 32 2024 Sustainability Report Environment  TOTAL SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS For 2024, our Total Scope 1 GHG emissions from our U.S. and Trinidad  operations were 6,000,583 metric tons CO2e. We obtained independent  third-party verification and reasonable assurance of our U.S. and  Trinidad Scope 1 GHG emissions data. See Third-Party Verification and  Assurance for more information. U.S. SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS For 2024, our indirect Scope 2 GHG emissions from our U.S.  operations""
""were 406,128 metric tons CO2e, or approximately 7% of  the total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions from our U.S. operations.  We obtained independent third-party verification and reasonable  assurance of our U.S. Scope 2 GHG emissions data. See Third-Party  Verification and Assurance for more information. OTHER AIR EMISSIONS We disclose emissions of sulfur oxides, nitrogen oxides, and volatile  organic compounds from our U.S. operations. For more information  on the metrics and calculation""
""methodology, see the Data Tear Sheet  and Definitions. Our efforts to reduce GHG emissions, described in this  section, also help reduce other air emissions.   Trinidad Emissions Management Highlights Decreased emissions related to EOG’s operations in Trinidad in 2024 as  compared to 2023 were driven by a focus on operational improvements  to control emissions through installations of flaring infrastructure on our  platforms. In addition, we increased the frequency of LDAR surveys  throughout""
""our Trinidad operating area. These practices contributed  to a decrease in both Total Scope 1 GHG Intensity and Total Methane  Emissions Percentage. See Data Tear Sheet for more information.   Managing Emissions (continued) |  Trinidad operations Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 33 2024 Sustainability Report 2024 Sustainability Report Environment    IN FOCUS: DRIVING CONTINUOUS PERFORMANCE WITH EMISSIONS TARGETS EOG has set new emissions targets to support continued reductions""
""in GHG emissions intensity and maintained methane emissions  percentage performance through implementation of innovative  practices and technologies. NEAR-TERM TARGETS OVERVIEW Building on our learnings from setting and achieving our 2025  emissions targets, EOG has developed new near-term GHG and  methane emissions targets to drive continued innovation and learning.  We believe that these updated targets demonstrate our continued  commitment to sustainability, focusing on reducing emissions and""
""advancing our strong environmental performance.  Our efforts to reduce emissions intensity have benefited from the  establishment of previous GHG and methane intensity reduction targets,  and we believe our new emissions targets will help us on our pathway  to further reductions. Our targets are also adaptable to account for the  integration of emerging technologies and practices, as well as changes  in our operational footprint. We will continue to evaluate our approach to  measuring and""
""reporting emissions as practices and operations evolve, so  that our targets continue to drive performance improvements. Our new GHG and methane emissions targets reflect the EPA’s  Greenhouse Gas Reporting Protocol (GHGRP) methodology updates  adopted in 2024. The EPA’s updated GHGRP emissions reporting  requirements expand the types of emissions sources that must be  reported, and also update calculation and emissions factors for some  sources and equipment that have been previously reported.""
""To inform  our new GHG and methane emissions targets, we recalculated historical  emissions based on the updated EPA GHGRP requirements and will  calculate annual emissions target performance in alignment with  the updated reporting requirements going forward. The expanded  EPA emissions reporting boundary and methodology changes will  increase reported emissions across the U.S. oil and gas industry,  including for EOG. Although our new emissions reductions targets are aligned with  the updated""
""EPA methodology, emissions figures disclosed in this  year’s report are based on the prior EPA methodology applicable  during the 2024 reporting year. For more information on calculation  methodology and boundaries, see Definitions. Target Target Details Reduce GHG emissions  intensity rate 25%** •      Base year: 2019 •       Target year: 2030 •     U.S. and Trinidad operations •  Gross operated Scope 1 GHG  emissions Maintain near-zero methane  emissions** •         Near-zero methane emissions""
""is  defined as a methane emissions  percentage at or below 0.20% •  Target year: 2025–2030 •        U.S. and Trinidad operations •  Gross operated Scope 1  methane emissions Maintain zero routine flaring •       Target year: 2025–2030 •        U.S. and Trinidad operations EOG’s New Near-Term Emissions Targets*  * Reaching and maintaining our near-term targets are subject to risks and uncertainties. See Forward-Looking Statements and Emissions Targets and Ambition in the Appendix for more""
""information.  ** See Definitions for more information on calculation methodology and boundaries. |  Appalachian Basin operations Managing Emissions (continued) Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 34 2024 Sustainability Report 2024 Sustainability Report Environment  Water Management EOG is focused on responsibly managing the water used, produced,  transported, treated, stored, and disposed of across our operations in a  cost-effective and environmentally sustainable manner. This""
""includes a  water sourcing strategy centered on maximizing the use of nonfreshwater  and implementing or expanding water reuse where feasible, while  seeking to minimize freshwater use. WATER MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND OVERSIGHT Every oil- and natural gas-producing region has unique risks and  opportunities related to water — from identifying sources and reuse  options to determining the best methods and options for water  transportation and disposal. EOG’s Water Resources Team is responsible for""
""overseeing the  management of water resources across our operations and is led  by our Director of Water Resources, who reports up to our Chief  Operating Officer. The Water Resources Team collaborates across  multiple disciplines within EOG and with water management teams in  our operating areas to determine water quality and quantity needs,  develop multiple water sourcing options and scenarios, and support  efforts to responsibly manage water used across the full life cycle of  our""
""operations. To accelerate the implementation of best practices throughout the  company, we leverage our proprietary applications, such as TridentSM,  our water management tool; third-party analytical tools and studies;  and other innovative technologies. SOURCES OF WATER Sources of water used by EOG include surface water, fresh and non- fresh groundwater, and produced water that is recycled and reused. Our approach to sourcing water is tailored to consider local conditions,  sourcing""
""availability, and operational needs. As such, the availability and  accessibility of alternative water sources can vary significantly based on  a number of factors, including geography, drilling and completion activity  levels, production levels, available infrastructure, and operational needs. WATER REUSE As of year-end 2024, all of our operating areas have some level of reuse  capability. The feasibility and capacity of water reuse in any given play  is dependent on several operating area""
""conditions. These include the  amount of produced water we generate, the level of completions and  production activity, and the availability of water reuse infrastructure, which  is less economically and operationally feasible to build in exploratory or  low-activity areas. As we further develop operating areas, we look for  opportunities to expand reuse infrastructure, including pipelines, reuse  ponds, and treatment facilities, to help us minimize freshwater use.   Operational Approach to""
""Water Management Efforts EOG takes to address the unique risks and opportunities  regarding water in our operating areas include: •  Conducting a comprehensive evaluation of available water  sources, water quality, quantity, and options in each of our  operating areas •       Identifying and implementing technologies based on the specific  characteristics of an operating area to support water sourcing,  reuse, and disposal •         Utilizing Trident, our water management application, to""
""support our approach and report water metrics, including  real-time water reuse •      Engaging with stakeholders in the communities where we  operate to better understand regional characteristics and to  discuss and collaborate on our water management plans •   Where applicable, participating in multistakeholder and industry  initiatives focused on developing, evaluating, and testing water  reuse opportunities |  Delaware Basin operations Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 35""
""2024 Sustainability Report Environment  Water Management (continued) Managing Produced Water and Maximizing Reuse Capability We install infrastructure and implement processes designed to reuse or  safely dispose of produced water, including:  •        Installing pipelines and temporary, lay-flat hoses to transport  produced water •       Installing dual-purpose water pipelines that can support sourcing  and gathering of produced water for reuse  •         Prioritizing moving water through""
""pipelines instead of by truck to  increase water reuse and operational efficiency and reduce the  potential for spills. (For more information on how we manage spills  in our operations, see Spill Prevention and Management.) •     Handling and disposing of produced water at sites that are approved  and permitted by the appropriate regulatory authorities •  Periodically assessing regulatory compliance at disposal facilities LEVERAGING TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION  TO SUPPORT WATER MANAGEMENT Trident,""
""one of our proprietary desktop and mobile applications, helps  us address water risks and opportunities in our operating areas by  facilitating management of water resources across our operations. Trident  provides map-based visualizations of our infrastructure and can track  water availability and anticipated demand, allowing for scenario planning  for water sourcing, reuse, storage, and transportation. Trident incorporates several real-time operational control measures that  can prevent""
""bottlenecks, anticipate takeaway needs, minimize trucking of  water, prevent and minimize spills, and promote reuse by: •  Tracking reuse storage locations and capacity against our current  produced water volumes and water use needs, optimizing water  available for reuse •  Integrating with our proprietary leak detection software, iDetectSM, to  support automated spill detection on our reuse collection ponds and  water pipelines where feasible. (For more information on spill detection  and""
""prevention, see Spill Prevention and Management.) In addition to the capabilities above, we also utilize Trident’s map-based  tools, which include data integrated from the World Resources Institute  (WRI) Aqueduct tool, to evaluate water scarcity in our operating areas  and to track water consumption from stressed areas.   Water Management Technology and Innovation We continue to explore technologies and other innovations to  advance alternative disposal options for produced water when we  are""
""unable to reuse it in our own operations including: •    In 2023, we piloted thermal evaporation technology to evaporate  produced water, which reduced the number of trucks carrying  water and the demand for disposal. •      In 2024, we expanded the use of mechanical evaporation  technology and were able to reduce our disposal requirements in  one of our operating areas. Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 36 2024 Sustainability Report 2024 Sustainability Report Environment""
""WATER USE PERFORMANCE In 2024, we continued to source a majority of our water from nonfresh  and reuse sources, minimizing freshwater use; 72% of water sourced  across all of our U.S. operations was from nonfresh or reuse sources.  Since 2021, over 50% of water we have sourced for our operations has  been from reuse sources. Our freshwater intensity rate increased from 0.15 barrels (Bbls) of  fresh water per Boe in 2023 to 0.21 in 2024. This increase was due to  limited availability of""
""nonfreshwater sources and reuse opportunities in  exploratory plays and certain development plays. See Sources of Water  and Water Reuse for additional details on factors that influence water use  in our operations. We track and report our total water, nonfreshwater, and reuse intensity  rates, as well as our absolute water use. See the Data Tear Sheet for  additional water data. Sources of Water   Nonfresh   Fresh   Reuse 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 19% 9% 14% 21% 28% 35% 36% 28% 22% 22% 46% 55%""
""58% 57% 50% >96% Of the total water handled by EOG in  2024 was transported via pipe 72% Of total water sourced for our U.S.  operations in 2024 was from reuse  or nonfresh sources >99% Of water sourced for our Delaware  Basin operations in 2024 was from  reuse or nonfresh sources For information regarding the methodology used for the water  metrics in this section, including the formulas and definitions,  see the Appendix. percent of total Water Management (continued) Introduction Environment""
""Governance Appendix Social 37 2024 Sustainability Report Environment  Spill Prevention and Management EOG seeks to proactively minimize and eliminate the risk of spills.  EOG’s approach includes managing risks associated with long-lived  infrastructure, such as corrosion, through proactive asset integrity  maintenance and facility improvements. Spill prevention is integrated into our operational planning processes.  Each operating area has spill prevention and management plans  designed to""
""facilitate quick spill containment and to undertake recovery  efforts to minimize environmental impact. Other methods we use to  reduce spill risk include the following: •      Site-specific spill prevention, control, countermeasures, and  response plans in each operating area that also include information  on flow-line integrity •    Training to review spill prevention and management plan  requirements and personnel responsibilities, including incident  response focused on responding to""
""emergencies •       Proactive asset integrity maintenance and facility improvements,  including equipment inspections and preventative maintenance •        “Nearly full” tank alarms •     Secondary containment on tanks •        Automated and remote leak monitoring and detection technology,  including our proprietary iDetectSM software (see Automating Spill  Prevention and Management for more information)   Proactive Spill Prevention An example of our proactive approach to spill prevention is""
""the Spill  Prevention Team in our San Antonio Division. This multidisciplinary  working group was established in 2022, with the purpose of piloting spill  performance improvements by proactively identifying actions to reduce  frequency and volume of spill incidents. The working group focuses  on evaluating and characterizing incident reviews and enhancing data  collection, quality, and usability to support spill prevention. This data  is used to understand where spills may occur in the future,""
""based on  historical incidents. More recently, this group has been working to share  knowledge in other operating areas across the company. •  Control-center-based continuous monitoring and remote shut-off  capabilities in our most active areas •         A cross-functional group to support asset integrity efforts, facilitate  innovation, and communicate new ideas and lessons learned across  our operating areas •        Specially engineered, double-lined water storage facilities with leak""
""detection, such as pond-level detectors •        Transportation of water by pipelines instead of trucks, reducing spill  and road safety risks (see Water Management for more information) |  Delaware Basin operations Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 38 2024 Sustainability Report 2024 Sustainability Report Environment  AUTOMATING SPILL PREVENTION  AND MANAGEMENT We operate remote monitoring and automated spill prevention systems to  proactively address potential leaks before""
""they occur and to respond to  potential spill events faster. Our control centers are continuously staffed  to monitor pump volumes, line pressure, sensors, and other operational  parameters in our most active operational areas. This helps us proactively  identify potential issues that could result in a spill or other operational  upset. Control center staff are also able to remotely shut down or reroute  flow if a potential spill is detected. This process is enhanced by utilizing iDetectSM and""
""its mobile  counterpart, miDetectSM, our proprietary leak detection software, which  has been integrated into control centers where available. Our iDetect  technology integrates sensor data with other operational data to enhance  our ability to detect potential leaks in real time at facilities, on flow lines  and gathering systems, and in water reuse systems. For example, by  combining topographic information with sensor data and automated  shut-off valves installed on temporary water lines, we""
""are able to prevent  and mitigate spills within our reuse infrastructure. If there is an indication of a potential release, iDetect sends an alarm  notification directly to the mobile devices of our field personnel. The  notification includes a description and volume estimate of the potential  leak. The control centers can activate remote shutdown capabilities  and/or reroute flow, where applicable. Additionally, iDetect aids spill  prevention by collecting and providing data to evaluate leak""
""origins and  better plan our facility and pipeline designs. SPILL PERFORMANCE EOG tracks and documents oil spills and produced water spills from our  U.S. operations, including total volume spilled and the recovery volumes  from those spills. We consider our oil spill and recovery rate performance  in our executive compensation program.  Our 2024 oil spill rate decreased by 29%, and we recovered 86%  of the total oil spill volume. This was due to continued operational  enhancements, additional""
""training on corrosion and asset integrity,  and continuing to raise awareness of spill prevention and mitigation. Our produced water spill volume increased compared to 2023, and we  recovered 71% of the total volume of produced water spills. Year-over- year changes were primarily related to increased movement of water  resources due to increased operational activity in 2024.  Our spill management efforts were also supported by a continued focus  on improving spill-related data collection,""
""quality, evaluation, and trending  capabilities to proactively prevent spills. Oil Spill and Recovery Rates — Spills Over  One Barrel 2024 2023 2022 2021 0.008 2020 0.008 0.007 0.005 0.012 0.003 0.005 0.007 0.004 0.007 0.001 0.001 0.001 0.006 0.004   Oil Spill Rate    Unrecovered Oil Spill Rate    Recovered Oil Spill Rate Spill Prevention and Management (continued) For more information regarding our spill metrics, including  the relevant definitions and the regulatory oil spill reporting""
""requirements (e.g. volume thresholds) for our primary  operating areas, see the Appendix and the Data Tear Sheet. Bbls/MBoe Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 39 2024 Sustainability Report Environment  Biodiversity and Land Stewardship EOG integrates biodiversity and land conservation throughout the  life cycle of our operations, from exploration and production to  decommissioning and restoration. We assess and manage the potential  impacts of our operations on the environment""
""and ecosystems and  collaborate with local stakeholders to support conservation of local  habitats and wildlife. Our Approach to Biodiversity and Land Stewardship Across the Project Life Cycle MANAGEMENT OVERSIGHT   Biodiversity and land stewardship efforts at EOG are guided by  EOG personnel from multiple functions, including Environment and  Sustainability, Land, Regulatory, Operations, Drilling, and Production  personnel, who review and participate in our biodiversity efforts through  many""
""stages of a project. Executive leadership also engages with  operating areas throughout the year to review and discuss topics that  can include biodiversity-related efforts. APPROACH TO BIODIVERSITY  AND LAND USE MANAGEMENT We tailor our approach to managing biodiversity to plan for and  address the unique nature-related risks and opportunities for each site  throughout its life cycle. We aim to prioritize impact avoidance, followed  by minimization, mitigation, and offsetting where necessary""
""and feasible.  This includes conducting predevelopment assessments and ongoing  monitoring to help evaluate and mitigate potential impacts and support  successful site restoration and reclamation. |  Delaware Basin operations   Avoid and Minimize Avoid and Minimize Impacts During Predevelopment, Development,  and Ongoing Operations •        Conduct predevelopment site assessment to evaluate potential  impacts on biodiversity and natural capital and ongoing resurveys  during construction and""
""operations •   Revise and reroute projects to avoid or minimize impacts identified •   Develop construction schedules to avoid disruptions to wildlife  activities, such as migration and nesting •    Stop work if changes arise regarding sensitive species or habitats •    Use less disruptive technologies like directional horizontal drilling  and multi-well pads, where practicable •         Implement operational practices that reduce footprint, like multi-well  pads and centralized production""
""facilities •    Endeavor to protect sensitive habitats through collaborative programs  with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service   Mitigate Mitigate Impacts Through Land Restoration During Ongoing  Operations and Decommissioning •    Restore and reclaim land disturbed during construction and  operations, using native plant seed when possible •         Monitor reclamation activities to confirm sites are reaching  established goals •       Follow industry best practices and regulations for plugging""
""and  abandonment, including restoration and reclamation activities •        Remove surface equipment and remediate land impacts as needed See Biodiversity Stewardship In Action Across Our Operations for examples of our avoidance, minimization, and mitigation activities.    Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 40 2024 Sustainability Report Environment  Predevelopment We undertake predevelopment assessments to evaluate and help avoid  potential impacts. These assessments start with""
""a desktop analysis for  a range of potential impacts on biodiversity. This process informs our  management efforts to avoid and minimize impacts throughout a project’s  life cycle — from evaluation through development to decommissioning.  Data reviewed can include: •     Protected species and critical habitats •       Vegetation •    Wetlands and waters of the United States •      Hydrology •     Topography and soils •  Archaeological sites and cultural resources  •  Other special features""
""unique to an operational area In locations where more information may be needed, or to confirm our  desktop analysis, we undertake site visits that include a multidisciplinary  team of EOG personnel, contractors, and other stakeholders, as relevant.  We use this information to inform our site location planning and activity  timing to help avoid potential impacts. We also use technology to optimize site selection and minimize  environmental impact. Since 2020, we have deployed drones and fixed-""
""wing aircraft to capture aerial imagery and Light Detection and Ranging  (LiDAR) remote sensing data in the Permian Basin in New Mexico. By  integrating high-resolution aerial data with environmental information  from national and state sources, we create 3D elevation maps that help  us visualize and adjust well pad and infrastructure locations to avoid  sensitive habitats.  When applicable, we share data from our predevelopment assessments  with government agencies to enhance and support their""
""understanding  of these resources and their management efforts. For example, our  remote sensing technologies were used in partnership with the New  Mexico State Land Office (NMSLO) to remotely monitor the growth of two  endangered plant species within our conservation lease agreement in  New Mexico. Development and Ongoing Operations  During facility development and ongoing operations, we continuously  monitor and adjust our activities to minimize potential impacts on  biodiversity. For""
""disturbances.  We also proactively communicate with our operations teams and  implement control procedures to avoid impacts on habitats, species,  and other natural and cultural resources. This includes adjusting daily  operations at key times of the year when impacts can be anticipated,  such as bird nesting season. Decommissioning and Reclamation Where possible, we undertake restoration and reclamation activities  during ongoing operations. This can include reducing well pad footprints  and""
""restoring impacted surface areas after active construction, drilling,  and completions work. We also restore land affected by pipelines and  access roads once those are no longer needed. Once production activities are completed, we decommission wells, which  includes site restoration and reclamation under industry best practices  and regulations. This process involves a series of steps, including: •      An internal multidisciplinary team including land, geology, production,  and reservoir""
""engineering personnel reviews the well and develops a  well closure plan.  •     Where required by regulation, EOG notifies the appropriate state or  federal agency of the plan to plug and abandon the well and provides  a closure plan with a wellbore closure diagram.  •   Existing surface production equipment is removed, reused at other  locations, or salvaged.  •   Wells are plugged by filling former production zones with intervals of  cement pursuant to relevant state or federal regulations on""
""the size and  depth of cement plugs.  •     Once the well is plugged, the remaining surface equipment is removed  and land restoration commences. Beyond our legal, regulatory, and contractual obligations, we collaborate  with landowners and state and federal regulators to restore land in ways  that align with the specific interests of the local communities. As part of our commitment to responsible land stewardship,  we restore and reclaim disturbed land using native plant seed  when possible and""
""monitor reclamation activities to confirm  sites are meeting restoration goals. For more information, see  In Focus: Advancing Effective Reclamation. Biodiversity and Land Stewardship (continued) Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 41 2024 Sustainability Report Environment  BIODIVERSITY STEWARDSHIP IN ACTION  ACROSS OUR OPERATIONS Protecting Ferruginous Hawks in the Powder River Basin Since 2014, EOG has led a study to improve knowledge of Ferruginous  Hawk nesting and migration""
""Texan by Nature, a collaborative  partnership between natural resource users and conservation experts  to promote conservation efforts that help sustain Texas’ working lands,  water supplies, and wildlife. Local EOG land personnel have worked with  landowners and restoration contractors to communicate the importance  of native habitats. In the Eagle Ford, EOG worked in partnership with  Texan by Nature and private landowners to create native pollinator habitat  by restoring native grasses and""
""nectar-producing plants at well pads,  pipeline rights of way, and other areas associated with our leases. These grasses and plants can provide high-protein forage and food plots,  which maintain and improve habitat conditions for the monarch butterfly  and numerous other species in this migratory corridor. Additionally, the  native grasses require less maintenance and are more drought tolerant  than non-native grasses. As part of this project, EOG worked with native  plant experts and seed""
""providers to develop three regional seed mixes for  use in our restoration activities.  In further support of Texan by Nature, EOG funded a two-year project  evaluating the benefits of restoring native Texas grasslands in the Eagle  Ford Shale play. The project monitored soil health, carbon sequestration,  and biodiversity at four study sites within La Salle County. The data  collected was then paired with literature values to evaluate the benefits of  native vegetative restoration.  Protecting""
""Species and Habitats Through  Candidate Conservation Agreements EOG participates in collaborative programs between landowners, the  U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and other entities to protect species that  are listed as threatened or endangered under the Endangered Species  Act, or are being considered for listing as threatened or endangered.  Through these agreements, we commit to taking mitigation actions.  Innovative Conservation Lease With NMSLO In 2023, EOG began work to establish an""
""innovative conservation lease  with the NMSLO. The conservation lease, spanning nearly 600 acres of  land previously leased by EOG, was developed to promote the continued  conservation of biodiversity, land, and archaeological resources in a  multiuse area and establish long-term monitoring efforts. The partnership  leverages EOG’s expertise in responsible land management and our  ability to collect and utilize data to measure performance. EOG has  conducted initial studies to understand the""
""lease’s plants and resources  and is also leveraging drone technology to monitor two endangered plant  species that were identified.   Responsibly Managing Water in Our Operations Our operations are substantially dependent upon the availability  of water. As such, we have comprehensive programs to support  responsible management of water resources. See Water Management for more information on how we address  water risks, opportunities, and impacts in our operating areas.   |  Restored grasslands""
""near Eagle Ford operations Biodiversity and Land Stewardship (continued) Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 42 2024 Sustainability Report 2024 Sustainability Report Environment    IN FOCUS: ADVANCING EFFECTIVE RECLAMATION EOG empowers employees to pursue innovative opportunities and  technologies that support our commitment to environmental stewardship.  In the Powder River Basin (PRB), our team is piloting new, data-driven  approaches to improve reclamation outcomes while""
""leveraging local  knowledge and innovative practices to guide our progress.  We are testing out these innovative reclamation approaches across a  range of sites in the PRB where historic activity included multiple smaller  well pads, temporary roadways, and water reservoirs that are no longer  in use. As a first step in our reclamation efforts, we remove infrastructure,  regrade to match natural land contours, and cover areas with topsoil.  After these preliminary steps, we are testing a range""
""of reclamation  actions. These include: •   Planting more diverse and expansive native seed mixes  •        Using more diverse vegetative cover to increase soil shade and  water retention •       Incorporating biochar, or partially combusted organic material,  to enhance soil nutrients and moisture retention  •    Revegetating sites by transplanting mature sagebrush, with  full root systems and the surrounding soil, rather than just seeding  sagebrush or planting smaller seedlings  •""
""Evaluating plant morphology and orientation (e.g. sunlight, gravity)  and how it relates to snow and soil moisture retention Based on initial assessments, test plots in which we have implemented  some of the reclamation approaches described above have resulted  in more insects, increased species diversity, and improved vegetation  productivity. Moving forward, we plan to conduct additional analysis  on site revegetation options and to look for opportunities to use the  learnings from these""
""studies to improve our reclamation efforts.  |  Restored land near Powder River Basin operations Biodiversity and Land Stewardship (continued) Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 43 2024 Sustainability Report 2024 Sustainability Report Environment  Social 45       Our Communities 49      Our People 54   Safety          58  In Focus: Enhancing Our Safety Culture Through  Knowledge Sharing and Innovation Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 44 2024 Sustainability""
""Report 2024 Sustainability Report Social  Our Communities Engaging with and investing in the communities where we live and  work is integrated into EOG’s operational approach. We focus on  understanding community needs and responding to concerns in order  to create shared value. We proactively engage with direct and indirect stakeholders — from  property owners, civic leaders, and elected officials to first responders,  nonprofits, and local community groups — to identify and address  specific""
""stakeholders  on initiatives to support  community projects and  programs, and work to  address concerns and  resolve issues.   Communicate We seek to maintain  ongoing stakeholder  relationships and  communication, including  by having personnel in our  operating areas directly  communicating with and  addressing questions  and concerns from local  community members. Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 45 2024 Sustainability Report 2024 Sustainability Report Social  Our""
""the event of a crash or other  roadway incident. Once operational, PSP’s  partnership with TxDOT Odessa District and  Midland County will help fund the HERO  Program along State Highway 191 and  Interstate 20 for two years. |  Oklahoma City office Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 46 2024 Sustainability Report Social  COMMUNITY GIVING Our community giving is focused on supporting the communities where  our employees live and work in two primary ways: We identify and  support""
""broader charitable initiatives that benefit the communities where  we operate based on feedback from local community engagement and  employees in our operating areas, and we also support charities that are  important to our employees, directors, and eligible retirees through our  matching gifts program. We align our corporate-level giving with the following pillars: •        Community Vitality and Environment — Reducing homelessness  and improving housing availability, providing access to the""
""arts,  supporting first responders, and protecting the environment and wildlife  through action and education. •        Education and Job Training — Improving literacy and science,  technology, engineering, and math (STEM) education, as well as  helping individuals attain the specialized skills they need to succeed. •         Health and Wellness — Providing our communities and schools with  nutrition, health services and support, and wellness education to help  individuals and families live""
""removed from their owners by law enforcement authorities near our  Denver operations. Our local Denver Division employees regularly  volunteer their time to help clean the facility in addition to providing  financial support. Our Communities (continued) Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 47 2024 Sustainability Report Social  COMMUNITY VOLUNTEERISM EOG values employee volunteerism and considers it an important aspect of our  culture. We empower our employees to give their time""
""foster children at the  Citizens Caring for Children  Resource Center. 1 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 5 6 6 7 7 Our Communities (continued) Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 48 2024 Sustainability Report Social  Our People We believe that EOG’s culture is our competitive advantage. At the  core of our culture is a commitment to empowering employees as  idea generators and decision-makers, fostering an environment where  innovation and continuous improvement thrive. Our decentralized,  non-""
""areas,  supported by cross-company communication channels that facilitate  knowledge sharing and alignment. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT By providing employees with a quality work environment, EOG is able to  attract and retain many of the industry’s best and brightest — individuals  who embrace our company’s culture and commitment to sustainability  and corporate responsibility. Engagement and Retention To foster employee engagement, we encourage teams  across disciplines and operating""
""areas to share their  thoughts, ideas, and solutions. Focusing on empowering  employees to contribute ideas strengthens our ability to  innovate and continuously improve.  Multidisciplinary Collaboration Teams from our Engineering, Environmental and  Sustainability, Exploration, Operations, Marketing and  Midstream, Safety, and Supply Chain groups regularly  collaborate to share ideas and develop solutions in planning  sessions and internal conferences. Leadership Engagement Members of our""
""employee  meetings in our operating areas, trainings, and volunteer  opportunities. (To read more about EOG’s volunteer  activities in 2024, see Community Volunteerism.) In addition,  employees are kept informed and engaged through the use  of our company intranet, myEOG. myEOG provides access  to important company information and features monthly news  articles with company updates and initiatives. |  Corpus Christi office Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 49 2024""
""Sustainability Report 2024 Sustainability Report Social  Our People (continued) As a data-focused company, we use a range of data sources and  analytics to assess and manage employee engagement and retention.  For example, we participate in an annual employee engagement and  satisfaction survey from Energage, a company that specializes in  workplace culture. Senior leadership reviews the results and related  analyses to help inform our approach to workplace needs. EOG continues to be recognized""
""Alliance,  a membership-based training program for energy professionals, and  encourage our technical staff to participate annually. Beyond training courses, we support our employees in their  continuous professional development. Our internal performance  review and development system emphasizes regular ongoing two-way  communication between supervisors and team members, continuous  goal setting, and actionable development activities designed to support  career growth and aspirations.""
""Additionally, we encourage employees  to engage in professional networking groups such as the Women’s  Energy Network, which provides a valuable platform for networking,  support, and advocacy.  We host annual internal technical conferences for each major discipline —  exploration, drilling, completions, reservoir engineering, production, and  facilities. These annual conferences primarily serve as a platform for sharing  best practices and technical advances, safety and environmental topics,""
""professional engineers or certified  public accountants. Broad Recognition from Energage’s Regional and USA Today Top Workplaces Cultural Excellence Awards 2022-2025 2020-2025 2013-2024 2010-2024 2024-2025 2023-2025 2013-2024 2025 2022-2025 2022-2025 2022-2024 2022-2025 2024-2025 2022-2025 2022-2024 2022-2025 2022-2024 Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 50 2024 Sustainability Report 2024 Sustainability Report Social  BENEFITS AND WELLNESS Our benefits program is designed to""
""taking part  in team challenges, and more. Benefits Overview See Discover Our Total Rewards in the Careers section of our  website for detailed information on our benefits program. Our People (continued) Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 51 2024 Sustainability Report Social  Our People (continued) Female Representation Minority Representation*, **  * As defined by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.  ** Based on self-identification by employees. Total 2020 30.3""
""percentage, as of December 31, 2024 percentage, as of December 31, 2024 years years Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 52 2024 Sustainability Report Social  RECRUITING Our college and experienced talent recruitment efforts focus on  attracting a highly skilled workforce that is well-equipped to support our  company’s present objectives and future goals. Our reputation as an  innovative company, and one that empowers employees to identify and  act upon opportunities to make an""
""supporting scholarships for deserving and talented students. Our People (continued) |  Houston office Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 53 2024 Sustainability Report 2024 Sustainability Report Social  Safety EOG believes that leadership, commitment, and communication are key  characteristics of safe operations, and emphasizes the importance of  having our workforce take ownership and responsibility for conducting  operations in a safe manner. EOG’s culture of safety is""
""Safety and Environmental Policy and Safe Practices Manual, these  processes are adaptable to the specific conditions in our operating areas.  To support our decentralized organization, most personnel who are  members of our Safety Team work locally in our operating area offices,  and their efforts are led by our companywide Vice President, Safety,  who reports to our Chief Operating Officer. This approach promotes  local responsibility while supporting the implementation of companywide""
""priorities that  may change.    Personal      Know and care  for your team.   Continuously Improving        Incremental changes add  up to significant results. Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 54 2024 Sustainability Report Social  INTEGRATED SAFETY PRACTICES A range of safety practices are integrated into our operation to help drive  safety performance and to support a strong, consistent approach to  safety management. For example: •   Pre-job safety meetings are held""
""Taking corrective actions as necessary Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 55 2024 Sustainability Report Social  SAFE DRIVING Driving is a common aspect of our work, given the remote locations  of many EOG operations. We work to equip our employees with tools  related to safe driving practices, including the following: •      Awareness — Safe driving practices are regularly discussed in our  field safety meetings.  •    Training — Our Safe Practices Manual includes specific""
""guidance  on our vehicle safety expectations and practices. We also offer  specific hands-on, decision-based driver training.  •         GPS Monitoring — We equip EOG vehicles with Global Positioning  System (GPS) vehicle monitoring systems, which provide data for  driver feedback that increases driver awareness and allows for  focused driver-skills training.  •     Route Planning — We plan our travel logistics to route truck  traffic onto secondary roads and schedule our activities outside""
""including  meeting with contractors to encourage sharing of best practices. EMERGENCY RESPONSE Each EOG operating area develops and maintains written plans for  rapid and effective response to emergency situations in order to protect  our employees, contractors, and the environment. These plans support,  and are components of, EOG’s corporate Crisis Management Plan,  which details our corporate response in an emergency. Our emergency  response plans provide a tiered response level for activating""
""(continued) Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 56 2024 Sustainability Report 2024 Sustainability Report Social  Workforce 2020 0.45 2021 0.40 2022 0.51 2023 0.46 2024 0.36 Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)*  Workforce 2020 0.13 2021 0.11 2022 0.17 2023 0.12 2024 0.08 Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR)* Employee 2020 0.56 2021 0.37 2022 0.21 2023 0.10 2024 0.19 Contractor 2020 0.42 2021 0.41 2022 0.57 2023 0.52 2024 0.38 Employee 2020 0.13 2021 0.03 2022 0.07 2023 0.00 2024 0.03""
""Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), of incidents (injuries) per 200,000 hours  worked in calculating TRIR and LTIR. We work closely with our contractors to capture the hours worked by their employees and subcontractors.  See the Appendix for related formulas and definitions and  the Data Tear Sheet for expanded safety metrics, including  work-related fatalities. incidents per 200,000 hours worked incidents per 200,000 hours worked Safety (continued) Introduction Environment Governance""
""Appendix Social 57 2024 Sustainability Report Social    IN FOCUS: ENHANCING OUR SAFETY CULTURE THROUGH KNOWLEDGE SHARING AND INNOVATION Because EOG operates a diverse, multi-basin portfolio of assets,  our employees regularly encounter a wide range of activities that  drive practical, real-time safety solutions. A key component of our  collaborative, decentralized culture is the ability and empowerment  of employees to innovate solutions that are tailored to address the  challenges they""
""safety and  operational efficiencies The combination of innovative field solutions, multidisciplinary  collaboration, and knowledge sharing reinforces our commitment to  decentralized decision-making by giving field teams the opportunity to  enhance safety practices in their areas of operation.   Safety (continued) |  Dorado operations Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 58 2024 Sustainability Report 2024 Sustainability Report Social  Governance 60    Board of Directors 63""
""Oversight and Practices Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 59 2024 Sustainability Report 2024 Sustainability Report Governance  Board of Directors Currently, our Board of Directors is comprised of seven nonemployee,  independent directors and our Chairman of the Board of Directors and  Chief Executive Officer, Ezra Yacob. Directors are elected annually under a majority-vote standard, which  provides our stockholders with a meaningful voice in the annual director  election""
""process. Our Board of Directors committees — the Audit  Committee, the Compensation and Human Resources Committee, and  the Nominating, Governance and Sustainability Committee (Nominating  Committee) — are each composed solely of independent directors.  The independent presiding director, who is elected annually by the  independent directors of our Board of Directors, plays a valuable role in  the overall leadership of the Board of Directors. The presiding director  serves as a liaison between""
""Nominating, Governance and Sustainability  Committee Chair C. Christopher Gaut Director since 2017 Audit Committee Chair Michael T. Kerr Director since 2020 Compensation and Human  Resources Committee Chair Julie J. Robertson Director since 2019 Charles R. Crisp Director since 2002 Janet F. Clark Director since 2014 Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 60 2024 Sustainability Report Governance  BOARD OF DIRECTORS COMPOSITION  AND REFRESHMENT Our Board of Directors and Nominating""
""11+ Years 37.5%  6–10.9 Years 50.0%  12.5%  Minority 37.5%  Women See Key Director Skills and Areas of Experience for  descriptions and a matrix of the skills and experience of our  current directors that we believe are relevant to our business. Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 61 2024 Sustainability Report Governance  KEY DIRECTOR SKILLS AND AREAS OF EXPERIENCE Below are descriptions of key skills and areas of experience that we believe are relevant to our business, along""
""debt and equity) relevant to a large, publicly traded company   Energy Industry Contributes valuable perspective on issues specific to our operations in the oil and gas industry Corporate Governance and Risk Management Has an understanding of, and experience with, the roles of corporate strategy and risk management necessary for  organizational performance International Provides valuable insights into the international aspects of our business and operations Governmental and Regulatory Has an""
""understanding of the effect governmental and regulatory actions and decisions may have on our business Environmental, Health, and Safety Strengthens the Board’s oversight and understanding of the interrelationship between safety and environmental matters and our  operational activities and strategy Human Resources and Compensation Has an understanding of compensation factors and components that influence the attraction, motivation,  and retention of a talented workforce Civic, Community, and""
""operations and business Board of Directors (continued) Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 62 2024 Sustainability Report Governance  Oversight and Practices EOG’s strong corporate governance practices enhance our accountability  to our shareholders, our commitment to transparency to all stakeholders,  and our risk oversight and management efforts. BOARD OF DIRECTORS RISK OVERSIGHT FUNCTION  Our Board of Directors has primary responsibility for risk oversight,  including risks""
""related to environmental, safety, and sustainability-related  matters, and is assisted by our Audit Committee in overseeing our  enterprise risk management. To help maintain a broad view of EOG’s  overall risk management program, the Board of Directors regularly  reviews our long-term strategic plans. This includes evaluating the  principal issues and risks that we may face and the processes we  employ to identify, assess, manage, and mitigate such risks.  Our directors have significant""
""experience with environmental, safety,  governance, human capital management, risk assessment, risk  management, and compliance matters. As part of our overall risk  management program, members of management assist the Board  of Directors and its committees with their risk oversight function by  presenting and discussing current and emerging topics with the Board  of Directors and its committees throughout the year. Topics discussed  include regulatory and corporate governance developments; risk""
""management-related topics such as cybersecurity; and environmental,  safety, and sustainability-related matters. In addition, the Board of  Directors brings in external speakers to enhance its knowledge on  selected topics.  To assist our Board of Directors and its committees in the oversight  of climate-related risks, members of our management report on  EOG’s environmental performance, climate-related scenario analyses,  sustainability disclosures, and stakeholder feedback on environmental,""
""Directors delegates certain  elements of its oversight functions to one or more of its standing committees.   The Nominating Committee The Nominating Committee focuses on issues relating to Board  of Directors and Board of Directors committee composition and  provides oversight with respect to environmental compliance,  safety, and sustainability-related matters as well as our trade  association and political activities. As part of this responsibility,  the committee reviews potential related""
""development.  For additional discussion about human capital management,  see Our People. Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 63 2024 Sustainability Report 2024 Sustainability Report Governance  ROLE OF MANAGEMENT IN ASSESSING AND  MANAGING ENVIRONMENTAL, SAFETY,  AND SUSTAINABILITY-RELATED MATTERS Our executive management team is responsible for supporting our  Board of Directors and its committees in their risk oversight functions,  including with respect to environmental,""
""safety, and sustainability- related matters. For example, the following mechanisms help us to  identify, assess, manage, and mitigate safety and environmental risks  and facilitate continuous improvement and consistency throughout  our decentralized operations: •  Regular reports to our executive management from functional  leaders in each of our operating areas on their specific safety and  environmental performance and related matters  •      Safety and environmental conferences attended by""
""the safety  and environmental teams from each operating area, executive  management, and representatives from our operations and  other departments  •         Regular meetings among EOG’s safety and environmental personnel  to share information, best practices, and goals on topics including  emissions, spills, and safety  •  Regular safety and environmental training available to employees  and contractors  •    Discussion of safety and environmental matters at EOG’s in-house  drilling,""
""completions, production, and facilities technical conferences  to increase engagement by our Operations personnel  •        Staff dedicated to environmental and safety risk management and  performance, and the collection and analysis of GHG emissions, spills,  water management, and safety data •    Regular technical meetings to discuss production and facility  GHG emissions attended by production and facility engineers,  and representatives from our Legal Department, Environmental  and""
""Sustainability Group, Safety Group, and Information Systems  (IS) Department For additional information on the management of  environmental, safety, and sustainability-related  matters, including those related to human resources,  information systems, cybersecurity, and compliance,  see An Integrated Approach to Sustainability. Oversight and Practices (continued) |  Midland office Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 64 2024 Sustainability Report 2024 Sustainability Report""
""Governance  Oversight and Practices (continued)   Executive Management Team   The executive management team works with personnel across the  company to assess and manage risks, implement sustainability efforts,  and track and report performance. The Chief Operating Officer provides  overall leadership for safety and environmental matters, including risks  and opportunities relating to emissions management and climate change.   Operations   Multidisciplinary teams in each of our operating areas,""
""including  engineers; safety, environmental, and water professionals; geologists;  and other personnel, collaborate to develop and implement initiatives that  consider the unique operating conditions of each region.   Water Resources Team   Our Water Resources Team is responsible for the oversight and  management of water resources across our operations. This team is  led by our companywide Director of Water Resources and includes  water management representatives from each of our operating""
""more information, see Safety.   Environmental and Sustainability Group   Our Environmental and Sustainability Group is responsible for managing  EOG’s environmental performance. The group works collaboratively with  EOG’s Operations personnel on initiatives, technologies, and practices  for managing environmental matters and with other departments with  respect to related policy and regulatory matters. For more information on  the management of environmental matters, see Our Integrated Approach""
""to Environmental Management, Climate, Managing Emissions, Spill  Prevention and Management, and Biodiversity and Land Stewardship.   Human Resources Department  The Human Resources Department has personnel located in both  our operating-area offices and our corporate headquarters, with a  reporting structure to our Chief Human Resources Officer. The Human  Resources Department is responsible for talent recruitment and retention,  compensation and benefits, and training and development. For more""
""information, see Our People.   Information Systems Department  Our Information Systems (IS) Department has developed more than  140 desktop and mobile applications that support transparency and  continuous improvement across the company, many of them focused  on environmental performance. The IS Department is also responsible  for cybersecurity strategy and planning. For more information, see  Information Technology and Cybersecurity.   Compliance Committee  The Compliance Committee is""
""Our employees improve the company’s environmental, safety, and sustainability-related performance in the same way  and at the same time that they create value across our operations — beginning in the field, across our decentralized organization, and through multidisciplinary teams using data to innovate new  and creative technology solutions to environmental, safety, and sustainability-related risks and opportunities. Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 65 2024 Sustainability""
""financial, strategic,  operational, and organizational goals established by the Compensation  and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors. Annual  performance goals communicate EOG’s priorities to our executive officers  and employees, in addition to establishing important benchmarks.  The separately weighted safety and environmental goals established for  2024 encompassed our Total Recordable Incident Rate, Severity Index  Rate, safety leadership program attendance, oil spill and""
""oil recovery  rates, GHG and flaring emissions intensity rates, methane emissions  percentage, and wellhead gas capture rate, in each case based on  specified performance metrics. The safety performance metrics and  environmental performance metrics were each weighted 7.5%. ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES EOG is committed to conducting our business in accordance with the  highest ethical standards and in compliance with the laws of all countries  where we operate, as well as helping to ensure that""
""and providing regular reports to the  Audit Committee.   2025 Safety and Environmental  Annual Performance Goals To evaluate our 2025 performance, the Compensation and  Human Resources Committee has again established separate  safety and environmental goals, each weighted 7.5%, based on  specified performance metrics. The safety performance metrics  include our Total Recordable Incident Rate, Severity Index Rate,  and safety leadership program attendance, and the environmental  performance""
""metrics include our oil spill and oil recovery rates,  GHG and flaring emissions intensity rates, methane emissions  percentage, and wellhead gas capture rate. Oversight and Practices (continued) CODES OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS EOG’s Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics detail the legal and  ethical responsibilities of, and our expectations for business conduct  by, EOG officers, directors, and employees as well as our vendors  and contractors. Directors, Officers, and Employees — EOG’s""
""with applicable  laws and regulations, including those relating to environmental,  health, safety, and human rights matters. EOG also requires our directors, officers, employees, vendors, and  contractors to comply with related policies, including policies covering  anti-corruption and anti-money-laundering compliance. Our Codes  of Business Conduct and Ethics and related policies are reviewed  annually — including with our Audit Committee — and updated as  necessary or appropriate. All codes""
""can be found in the Board of Directors section  of the Company page of EOG’s website. Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 66 2024 Sustainability Report Governance  TRAINING AND CONFIDENTIAL  REPORTING MECHANISMS  EOG maintains an active global compliance training program. Training is  provided to employees upon joining the company and then to employees  and contractors periodically thereafter. For EOG personnel working in  international settings, training topics include""
""Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. See Our Communities for more information on EOG’s approach to  engagement with local stakeholders, including Indigenous Peoples. Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 67 2024 Sustainability Report Governance    AXPC ESG and EHS Working Groups The AXPC ESG and EHS working groups bring together  independent U.S. upstream oil and gas producers to discuss  industry trends, company performance, and regulatory  developments. Through this""
""collaboration, the AXPC developed  a voluntary framework of common metrics to support more  consistency and comparability in reporting across independent  U.S. oil and natural gas exploration and production companies.  See American Exploration and Production Council Metrics for  EOG’s AXPC Metrics reporting.  EOG discloses the trade association memberships for  which our annual dues equal or exceed $50,000 and the  amount of dues paid to each such trade association for  the year in the""
""Sustainability section of our website. Oversight and Practices (continued) PUBLIC ADVOCACY AND ENGAGEMENT EOG does not contribute corporate funds to any federal, state, or local  political candidate, party, organization, or campaign. In addition, EOG  does not sponsor or administer a political action committee.  We respect and support the right of our directors, officers, and  employees to support political parties and candidates with their personal  time and money. However, use of EOG company""
""resources for such  purposes, including employee time, company funds, and company  supplies, is prohibited without the express approval of EOG’s Chief  Executive Officer.  EOG engages with regulators and elected officials to educate them  on issues affecting our company and industry, changing technologies,  and best practices. In addition, EOG employees are active participants  in industry coalitions and working groups, including those focused  on safety, water reuse, and reducing emissions,""
""where they share  information and promote best practices. Examples include the National  Petroleum Council and safety- and environmental-focused working  groups at the American Exploration and Production Council (AXPC). TRADE ASSOCIATION MEMBERSHIPS  EOG pays membership dues to certain trade associations and  benefits from the time they spend engaged in efforts to educate  lawmakers and voters on issues relevant to the oil and gas industry.  Trade associations also provide technical expertise,""
""to political activities and lobbying expenses. |  Houston office Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 68 2024 Sustainability Report 2024 Sustainability Report Governance  INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY  AND CYBERSECURITY  EOG relies on information technology systems across our business,  including managing data from creation in the field to delivery to end users,  with proprietary applications built in-house. Our supply chain of data  enables us to operate as a real-time, mobile, and""
""transparent company,  empowering employees to make well-informed decisions. It also helps  us identify and develop opportunities for improvement, including the  company’s environmental, safety, and sustainability-related performance.  Our Proactive Approach to Cybersecurity  As our reliance on data and our information technology systems has  increased, we have continued to evolve and modify our cybersecurity  processes, strategy, and related governance and oversight practices,  as well as""
""training and security exercises. EOG  communicates the company’s expectations of employees and  contractors regarding cybersecurity matters via the Codes of Conduct. Oversight and Practices (continued) |  Houston office Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 69 2024 Sustainability Report Governance  Appendix 71     Key Elements of Our Safety and Environmental Policy 72         Hydraulic Fracturing 73         Seismicity 73   Waste Management 74     Formulas 75     Definitions 79""
""SASB and TCFD Indexes 81        American Exploration and Production Council Metrics 83         Internal and Third-Party Verification and Assurance 83         Additional Disclosures Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 70 2024 Sustainability Report 2024 Sustainability Report Appendix  Key Elements of Our Safety and Environmental Policy At EOG, our commitment to environmental stewardship is embedded in our Safety and Environmental Policy, which commits to  safeguarding people and""
""the environment by making performance the responsibility of every EOG employee and contractor.   Engagement We engage with regulators, industry groups, and other stakeholders  to facilitate the development of sound, effective laws and regulations,  policies, and procedures. Together, they help protect the environment,  employees, contractors, and communities, and raise the standards  of our industry.   Environmental Protection We are committed to reducing the impact of our  operations on the""
""environment.   Communication We communicate openly with our customers, employees,  contractors, communities, appropriate officials, public interest  groups, shareholders, and other stakeholders regarding  significant environmental matters.   Compliance Our policy is to comply with all applicable  environmental laws and regulations and to  apply responsible standards where such laws or  regulations do not exist.   Transparency We seek to make consistent, informed decisions by promoting  knowledge""
""sharing, data stewardship, and collaboration within the  organization and with stakeholders.   Continuous Improvement We strive to continuously drive environmental  performance improvements through setting  goals, training, monitoring progress, and  utilizing data-driven decision-making and  adaptive management.   Planning We make environmental matters an integral part  of our business planning, training, development,  and decision-making. Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 71""
""2024 Sustainability Report Appendix  Hydraulic Fracturing Hydraulic fracturing is standard practice for EOG’s well completion  process. It entails pumping pressurized fluid into underground geological  formations to create tiny fractures or spaces that allow crude oil and  natural gas to flow more easily from the reservoir into the wellbore and to  the surface. This enables EOG to produce crude oil and natural gas that  would otherwise not be recoverable from certain formations. Hydraulic""
""fracturing technology has been safely used by the oil and gas  industry for decades, and the technique is constantly being refined to  improve the stimulation of a well and maximize reserve recovery. EOG takes several steps to conduct hydraulic fracturing operations in  a safe and responsible manner, including following wellbore integrity  practices, conducting baseline groundwater testing, minimizing chemical  additives, and providing transparency through public disclosure. WELLBORE INTEGRITY""
""Prior to drilling any well, EOG performs a site-specific analysis to  determine the design and techniques that will be implemented to  maintain the integrity of the wellbore throughout the geologic formations  with which the well will intersect. To maintain wellbore integrity, we  use cement isolation of casing string, which are lengths of steel pipe.  Other standard practices include surface casing tests and annular  pressure monitoring. •      Surface casing is the primary steel pipe to be set""
""we  operate and monitor this pressure throughout the life of the well. BASELINE GROUNDWATER TESTING A key component of EOG’s water management practices is the  performance of baseline groundwater sampling prior to drilling a well in  a new area. When testing in areas where regulatory requirements have  not been established, we use an internal groundwater sampling program  based on best practices developed by state and local authorities.  Samples are sent to certified third-party laboratories for""
""independent  testing of water quality parameters. MINIMIZING CHEMICAL ADDITIVES In EOG’s hydraulic fracturing activities, chemical additives are typically  less than 0.5% of the fracturing fluids used. The application of innovative  completion technologies and techniques supports our efforts to minimize  the volume of chemical additives in hydraulic fracturing fluids. We  maintain an ongoing focus to further minimize the amount of chemicals  used to complete our wells. TRANSPARENCY EOG publicly""
""discloses the fracturing fluids used for 100% of relevant  well completions on the industry website FracFocus.org (hosted by  the Ground Water Protection Council and the Interstate Oil and Gas  Compact Commission). Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 72 2024 Sustainability Report Appendix  Seismicity Waste Management EOG takes a proactive approach to understanding seismic activity around  our areas of operation, through use of technology and data analysis. Our approach to""
""understanding seismic activity includes the following: •  Collecting and reviewing available geologic data, such as 3D seismic  subsurface images •       Monitoring flow rates and pressures in our hydraulic fracturing and  produced water disposal operations. See Managing Produced Water  and Maximizing Reuse Capability for more information on produced  water management. •     Integrating information into our proprietary operational mapping and  analysis applications to support multidisciplinary""
""analyses •     Deploying and helping to fund local seismic monitoring arrays in  operating areas with active seismicity To advance industry knowledge around seismicity, we participate in  research and initiatives with other operators, trade organizations, and  academic institutions. We also partner with regulators by providing  data, analyses, and other deliverables to support their research and  planning efforts. EOG sponsors scientific research through the Center for Injection  and Seismicity""
""Research, a research center managed by the Bureau  of Economic Geology, and we are a part of the center’s Science  Advisory Committee. EOG minimizes waste disposal by reducing, reusing, and recycling  materials within our operations where operationally feasible. Waste streams associated with our operations are generated during  drilling, completion, and production activities and handled in accordance  with applicable regulations and our waste management practices.  Examples of waste streams""
""include drilling muds, produced water, and  materials associated with vessel cleanouts and pipeline maintenance.  We also handle and, when necessary, responsibly dispose of materials  recovered after loss-of-containment events (see Spill Prevention and  Management for more information). We have established processes and procedures across our operations to  responsibly manage our waste streams, including the following: •    Waste management processes to classify and handle waste streams  across""
""our operational areas •         Training on waste management for relevant employees, including  waste characterization and identification •     A “chain of custody” manifest process that is integrated into our  proprietary applications to electronically track waste transportation  and disposal •        Contract terms with waste management requirements for third-party  waste disposal providers, including waste disposal facility audits and  spill tracking through our contractor management software""
""•  Closed loop systems to manage drilling muds, reuse drilling fluids,  and produced water •       Annual site-based audits of solid and liquid waste disposal facilities •        Collection, monitoring, and assessments of waste stream  data and volumes to support current and future compliance  and management efforts For additional information on the management of produced water,  see Managing Produced Water and Maximizing Reuse Capability. Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 73""
""2024 Sustainability Report Appendix  Formulas U.S. GHG Intensity Rate (Metric Tons CO2e/MBoe) = U.S. Scope 1 GHG Emissions    U.S. Gross Operated Production 5,899,624  446,432 = 13.2 Combustion Emissions Intensity Rate  (Metric Tons CO2e/MBoe) = U.S.  Scope 1 GHG Emissions for GHG  Source: Combustion   U.S. Gross Operated Production 5,324,145  446,432 = 11.9 Flaring Emissions Intensity Rate (Metric Tons CO2e/MBoe) = U.S. Scope 1 GHG Emissions for GHG  Source: Flaring   U.S. Gross Operated""
""Production 365,480  446,432 = 0.8 Pneumatics Emissions Intensity Rate (Metric Tons CO2e/MBoe) = U.S. Scope 1 GHG Emissions for GHG  Source: Pneumatics   U.S. Gross Operated Production 27,931  446,432 = 0.1 Other Sources Emissions Intensity  Rate (Metric Tons CO2e/MBoe) = U.S. Scope 1 GHG Emissions for GHG  Source: Other Sources   U.S. Gross Operated Production 182,067  446,432 = 0.4 U.S. Methane Intensity Rate (Metric Tons CO2e/MBoe) = U.S. Scope 1 Methane Emissions   U.S. Gross Operated""
""Production 267,890  446,432 = 0.6 U.S. Methane Emissions Percentage (Mcf/Mcf) = U.S. Scope 1 Methane Emissions in Mcf   U.S. Gross Operated Natural Gas Production 498,306  1,197,731,218 = 0.04 Wellhead Gas Capture Rate (Mcf/Mcf) = Wellhead Natural Gas Captured   U.S. Gross Operated Natural Gas Production 1,197,251,851  1,197,731,218 = 99.9 Total GHG Intensity Rate (Metric Tons CO2e/MBoe) = Total Scope 1 GHG Emissions    Total Gross Operated Production 6,000,583  468,586 = 12.8 Total Methane""
""Intensity Rate (Metric Tons CO2e/MBoe) = Total Scope 1 Methane Emissions   Total Gross Operated Production 319,719  468,586 = 0.7 Total Methane Emissions Percentage (Mcf/Mcf) = Total Scope 1 Methane Emissions in Mcf   Total Gross Operated Natural Gas Production 594,715  1,327,623,178 = 0.04 Total Water Intensity Rate (Bbls/Boe) = Total Water Used  U.S. Gross Operated Production 328,082,774  446,432,115 = 0.73 Reuse Intensity Rate (Bbls/Boe) = Reuse Water Used  U.S. Gross Operated Production""
""164,111,192  446,432,115 = 0.37 Nonfreshwater Intensity Rate (Bbls/Boe) = Nonfresh Water Used   U.S. Gross Operated Production 70,672,969  446,432,115 = 0.16 Freshwater Intensity Rate (Bbls/Boe) = Fresh Water Used   U.S. Gross Operated Production 93,298,613  446,432,115 = 0.21 Oil Spill Rate (over 1 Bbl) (Bbls/MBoe) = Oil Spill Volume  U.S. Gross Operated Production 2,013  446,432 = 0.005 Recovered Oil Rate (over 1 Bbls) (Bbls/MBoe) = Recovered Oil Volume  U.S. Gross Operated Production 1,731""
""36,378,751 = 0.38 Workforce LTIR = Number of Lost Time Incidents x 200,000   Manhours Worked 17  42,679,910 = 0.08 Workforce TRIR = Number of Recordable Incidents x 200,000   Manhours Worked 76  42,679,910 = 0.36 2024 Metric 2024 Metric Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 74 2024 Sustainability Report Appendix  Definitions Metric Term Definition Reference Source (if applicable) Greenhouse Gas and Methane Emissions Metrics U.S. Scope 1  GHG Emissions Unless otherwise indicated,""
""the metrics in this report present the total  Scope 1 emissions for the specified gas(es) associated with EOG’s gross  operated U.S. onshore production, gathering and boosting, and gas  processing segment sources, as reported to the U.S. Environmental  Protection Agency (EPA) pursuant to the EPA Greenhouse Gas Reporting  Program. They also include emissions that are subject to the EPA Greenhouse  Gas Reporting Program but are below the basin reporting threshold and  would otherwise go""
""unreported. U.S. Environmental Protection  Agency, Greenhouse Gas  Reporting Program, 40 CFR Part  98, Subparts C and W.  IPCC, 2014: Climate Change  2013: The Physical Science  Basis. Contribution of Working  Group I to the Fifth Assessment  Report of the Intergovernmental  Panel on Climate Change. Total Scope 1  GHG Emissions The Scope 1 emissions for the specified gas(es) associated with EOG’s gross  operated U.S. onshore production, gathering and boosting, and gas processing  segment""
""sources, as well as EOG’s gross operated Trinidad offshore production  segment sources calculated pursuant to EPA Greenhouse Gas Reporting  Program methodology.  The emissions data have been converted to a carbon dioxide equivalent  (CO2e) — the conversion to CO2e accounts for the higher global warming  potential (GWP) of methane and nitrous oxide compared to carbon dioxide.  The 100-year GWP of methane is 28 and nitrous oxide is 265.  See U.S. Scope 1 GHG Emissions for additional description of""
""U.S. metrics. U.S. Environmental Protection  Agency, Greenhouse Gas  Reporting Program, 40 CFR Part  98, Subparts C and W.  IPCC, 2014: Climate Change  2013: The Physical Science  Basis. Contribution of Working  Group I to the Fifth Assessment  Report of the Intergovernmental  Panel on Climate Change. U.S. Scope 1 Methane  Emissions in Thousand  Cubic Feet (Mcf) Unless otherwise indicated, the metrics in this report present the total Scope  1 methane emissions associated with EOG’s gross""
""operated U.S. onshore  production, gathering and boosting, and gas processing segment sources, as  reported to the EPA pursuant to the EPA Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program.  Also includes emissions that are subject to the EPA Greenhouse Gas Reporting  Program but are below the basin reporting threshold and would otherwise go  unreported. The total is converted to Mcf using the following formula:  (CH4 MT)/yr x 1000kg/MT x (2.20462 lbs)/kg x lbmole/(16.04 lbs CH4) x (379.3  scf)/lbmole x""
""Mscf/1000scf U.S. Environmental Protection  Agency, Greenhouse Gas  Reporting Program, 40 CFR Part  98, Subparts C and W. Total Scope 1 Methane  Emissions in Thousand  Cubic Feet (Mcf) The Scope 1 methane emissions associated with EOG’s gross operated U.S.  onshore production, gathering and boosting, and gas processing segment  sources, as well as EOG’s gross operated Trinidad offshore production segment  sources calculated pursuant to EPA Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program  methodology. The total""
""is converted to Mcf using the following formula:  (CH4 MT)/yr x 1000kg/MT x (2.20462 lbs)/kg x lbmole/(16.04 lbs CH4) x (379.3  scf)/lbmole x Mscf/1000scf  See U.S. Scope 1 Methane Emissions in Thousand Cubic Feet (Mcf) for  additional description of U.S. metrics. U.S. Environmental Protection  Agency, Greenhouse Gas  Reporting Program, 40 CFR Part  98, Subparts C and W. Metric Term Definition Reference Source (if applicable) U.S. Gross Operated  Natural Gas Production EOG’s gross operated U.S.""
""onshore natural gas wellhead production. EOG operations data. Total Gross Operated  Natural Gas Production EOG’s U.S. Gross Operated Natural Gas Production and Trinidad natural gas  wellhead production. EOG operations data. U.S. Gross Operated  Production EOG’s gross operated U.S. onshore production. EOG operations data. Total Gross Operated  Production EOG’s U.S. Gross Operated Production and Trinidad oil and natural gas  wellhead production. EOG operations data. GHG Source:  Combustion""
""Combustion emissions sources are portable equipment (i.e. drilling and  completion equipment) and stationary engines, turbines, generators, and  heaters. Combustion means the combustion of fuel to run these sources.  Combustion includes external fuel combustion, where the flame and  products of combustion are separated from contact with the process fluid  to which the energy is delivered, and internal fuel combustion, where the  expansion of high-temperature and high-pressure gases produced by""
""combustion applies direct force to a component of an engine, such as  pistons, turbine blades, or a nozzle. U.S. Environmental Protection  Agency, Greenhouse Gas  Reporting Program, 40 CFR Part  98, Subparts C and W. GHG Source: Flaring Flaring emissions sources include flare stacks, associated gas, dehydrators,  completions, workovers, and storage tanks. A flare is one type of combustion  device, whether at ground level or elevated, that uses an open or closed flame  to combust waste gases or""
""to control emissions without energy recovery. U.S. Environmental Protection  Agency, Greenhouse Gas  Reporting Program, 40 CFR Part  98, Subpart W. GHG Source: Other Other emissions sources are amine equipment, compressor emissions, venting,  and fugitives. Amine equipment consists of sweetening units that treat natural  gas. Compressor emissions are from centrifugal or reciprocating compressors.  For centrifugal compressors, this is blowdown valve leakage through the  blowdown vent, unit""
""isolation valve leakage through an open blowdown vent  without blind flanges, and wet seal oil degassing vents. For reciprocating  compressors, this includes blowdown valve leakage through the blowdown  vent, unit isolation valve leakage through an open blowdown vent without blind  flanges, and rod packing emissions.  Venting means gases or vapors are emitted directly to the atmosphere. Venting  emissions sources may come from dehydrators, equipment blowdown, liquids  unloading, workovers,""
""compressors, and storage tanks. EOG’s practice is to  capture and/or control venting emissions when feasible.  Fugitive emissions sources are equipment leaks from valves, connectors, open- ended lines, pressure relief valves, pumps, flanges, and other components,  such as instruments, loading arms, stuffing boxes, seals, dump lever arms, and  breather caps. U.S. Environmental Protection  Agency, Greenhouse Gas  Reporting Program, 40 CFR Part  98, Subpart W. Introduction Environment Governance""
""Appendix Social 75 2024 Sustainability Report Appendix  Definitions (continued) Metric Term Definition Reference Source (if applicable) GHG Source:  Pneumatics Pneumatics emissions sources are attributable to natural gas-driven pneumatic  controllers and pneumatic pumps. Pneumatic controllers are devices used  during normal production operations to control temperature, level, flow, and  pressure. Pneumatic pumps are pumps used during normal production  operations to inject and/or move fluids.""
""U.S. Environmental Protection  Agency, Greenhouse Gas  Reporting Program, 40 CFR Part  98, Subpart W. U.S. Scope 2  GHG Emissions EOG’s U.S. Scope 2 GHG emissions are reported on an operational control  basis using the location-based methodology and calculated based on EOG’s  purchased electricity consumption in the U.S., using the most recently available  EPA Emissions & Generation Resource Integrated Database state GHG  emissions factors for the given year. Greenhouse Gas Protocol,  GHG""
""Protocol Scope 2  Guidance (2015). 2030 GHG Emissions  Intensity Rate Target For the purposes of EOG’s target, GHG emissions intensity is calculated as  metric tons of Total Scope 1 GHG emissions, on a CO2e basis, per MBoe of  U.S. and Trinidad Total Gross Operated Production.  Includes Scope 1 GHG emissions (1) reported to the EPA pursuant to the EPA  Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program and emissions that are subject to the  EPA Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program but are below the basin reporting""
""threshold and would otherwise go unreported calculated using the Greenhouse  Gas Reporting Program methodology as adopted in 2024 and (2) from our  Trinidad operations calculated using the Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program  methodology as adopted in 2024. Near-Zero Methane  Emissions For EOG, near-zero methane emissions is a methane emissions percentage  at or below 0.20% calculated as Total Scope 1 Methane Emissions in  Thousand Cubic Feet (Mcf) per Mcf of U.S. and Trinidad Total Gross Operated""
""Natural Gas Production.  Includes Scope 1 methane emissions (1) reported to the EPA pursuant to the  EPA Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program and emissions that are subject to  the EPA Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program but are below the basin reporting  threshold and would otherwise go unreported calculated using the Greenhouse  Gas Reporting Program methodology as adopted in 2024 and (2) from our  Trinidad operations calculated using the Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program  methodology as adopted in""
""2024. Net Zero For EOG, net zero means all of our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions will be  reduced, captured, and/or offset. This covers Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG  emissions from the company’s activities and operations over which it has  operational control. GHG emissions inventories will be informed by the GHG  Protocol guidance and use CO2e as a common unit of measure. Scope 2  emissions will be calculated using the market-based methodology. Metric Term Definition Reference Source (if applicable)""
""Scope 1 Emissions Direct emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by the  reporting company.  See U.S. Scope 1 GHG Emissions and U.S. Scope 1 Methane Emissions  in Thousand Cubic Feet (Mcf) and the related GHG source definitions for  descriptions of Scope 1 emissions metrics presented in this report for  2020–2024 and our 2025 GHG and methane emissions targets. See Near-Zero  Methane Emissions and 2030 GHG Emissions Intensity Rate Target defintions  for descriptions of our new near-""
""term GHG and methane emissions targets. Greenhouse Gas Protocol,  a Corporate Accounting and  Reporting Standard, Revised  (2004). Scope 2 Emissions Indirect emissions from the generation of purchased or acquired electricity,  steam, heat, or cooling consumed by the reporting company. Greenhouse Gas Protocol, GHG  Protocol Scope 2 Guidance  (2015). Scope 3 Emissions EOG’s Scope 3, Category 11: Use of Sold Products GHG emissions  from U.S. and Trinidad operations, which represents the largest""
""source  of Scope 3 emissions for the company. To estimate EOG’s indirect GHG  emissions from the use of sold products on an equity basis, we follow  IPIECA’s Scope 3 guidance document, Estimating Petroleum Industry Value  Chain (Scope 3) Greenhouse Gas Emissions. This includes estimating end  use combustion emissions associated with oil, natural gas liquids, and  natural gas sales volumes, using the most recently available refinery output  data from the U.S. Energy Information Administration for""
""the given year,  emissions factors from the American Petroleum Institute’s (API) Compendium  of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Methodologies for the Natural Gas and Oil  Industry, and total wellhead volumes reported in our Annual Report on Form  10-K for the given year.  All indirect Scope 3 emissions (not included in Scope 2) are from sources  that are not owned or controlled by EOG. These sources occur along our  value chain, including both upstream and downstream emissions operations.  For example,""
""as an exploration and production company, EOG does not  control how the products we sell into markets are refined into energy products  or selected for use by consumers. Because Scope 3 emissions are, by  definition, the direct emissions of another entity and beyond the control of  EOG, emissions estimates are subject to uncertainty resulting from  variability and lack of standardization in emission calculation methodologies,  assumptions, and data sources. Additionally, there is inconsistency""
""in  emissions estimates related to the potential for double-counting between  categories and across companies and industries (see IPIECA’s Scope 3  guidance document for further description). 2024 Annual Report on Form  10-K.  IPIECA, Estimating Petroleum  Industry Value Chain (Scope  3) Greenhouse Gas Emissions  (2016).  American Petroleum Institute,  Compendium of Greenhouse  Gas Emissions Methodologies for  the Natural Gas and Oil Industry  (2021).  U.S. Energy Information  Administration,""
""Petroleum &  Other Liquids — Refinery &  Blender Net Production. Wellhead Gas Capture Rate The percentage by volume of wellhead natural gas captured upstream of low- pressure separation and/or storage equipment, such as vapor recovery towers  and tanks associated with EOG’s gross operated U.S. onshore production. EOG operations data. Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 76 2024 Sustainability Report Appendix  Definitions (continued) Metric Term Definition Reference Source (if""
""applicable) Other Emissions-Related Metrics Electricity Usage EOG’s purchased electricity consumption in the United States in a given year. Other Air Emissions Other Air Emissions are emissions of: (1) oxides of nitrogen (NOx), reported  as NOx, which includes NO and NO2 but excludes N2O; (2) oxides of sulfur  (SOx), reported as SO2, which includes SO2 and SO3; and (3) volatile organic  compounds (VOCs), which are defined by the EPA in 40 CFR Part 51.100.  Other Air Emissions estimates are""
""calculated for stationary sources included in  U.S. regulatory air emissions inventory and permitting requirements based on  operating data, emissions factors, and engineering calculations. EOG operations data.  Regulatory air requirements for  EOG’s U.S. operating areas. Metric Term Definition Reference Source (if applicable) Water Metrics Fresh Water Water that has a total dissolved solids concentration of less than or  equal to 1,000 milligrams per liter of water. The volumes reported are""
""not a result of commingling of fresh and nonfresh sources to stay below  threshold. The volumes reported do not include reuse water that has  been treated to meet threshold. U.S. Geological Survey, Water  Science Dictionary of Terms. Nonfresh Water Water that has a total dissolved solids concentration that exceeds 1,000  milligrams per liter of water. Examples of nonfresh water include saline water,  seawater, brackish groundwater or surface water, reclaimed water from a  municipal or industrial""
""facility, desalinated water, or remediated groundwater  used for industrial purposes.  The volumes reported are not a result of commingling of fresh and nonfresh  sources to reach threshold. U.S. Geological Survey, Water  Science Dictionary of Terms,  Water Basics Glossary. Reuse Water Water that is sourced from treated fluid and/or produced water generated  from EOG-operated or third-party oil and natural gas wells. Does not include  (1) water used in enhanced oil recovery or secondary recovery""
""or (2) any fresh  water or nonfresh water that may be blended or mixed with reuse water in  EOG’s operations. EOG operations data. Produced Water The water (brine) brought up from the hydrocarbon-bearing strata during the  extraction of oil and natural gas; can include formation water, injection water,  and any chemicals added downhole or during the oil/water separation process. U.S. Environmental Protection  Agency, Effluent Guidelines and  Standards, Oil and Gas Extraction  Point Source""
""Category, 40 CFR  Part 435. Total Water Used All fresh water, nonfresh water, and reuse water used in EOG’s U.S.  onshore operations. EOG operations data. Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 77 2024 Sustainability Report Appendix  Definitions (continued) Metric Term Definition Reference Source (if applicable) Spill Metrics Oil Spill Spill of crude oil. EOG operations data. Produced Water Spill Spill of produced water. See Water Metrics for definition of produced water. EOG""
""operations data. Recovered Oil Crude oil that is retrieved from the spill location and is not lost to  the environment. EOG operations data. Unrecovered Oil Crude oil that is not recovered from the total spill volume. EOG operations data. Metric Term Definition Reference Source (if applicable) Safety Metrics Lost Time Incident A job-related injury or illness that results in an employee or contractor, as  applicable, requiring one or more days away from work, beyond the day  of the onset of the""
""Safety and  Health Administration, OSHA  Recordable Incidents. Work-Related Fatality A loss of life of an employee or contractor as a result of an EOG  recordable incident. U.S. Department of Labor,  Occupational Safety and  Health Administration, OSHA  Recordable Incidents. Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 78 2024 Sustainability Report Appendix  SASB and TCFD Indexes In preparing this report, we consulted the disclosure framework set forth in the Sustainability Accounting""
""Standards Board’s (SASB’s) Oil & Gas — Exploration and Production Sustainability Accounting Standard.  We also took into consideration the recommended disclosure elements from the Financial Stability  Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Supporting our commitment to transparent sustainability-related disclosures, we are providing the following  tables indicating the location of our disclosures in relation to the SASB’s disclosure topics and the TCFD’s core""
""offshore sites EOG’s well sites in Trinidad are offshore; see 2024 10-K, pp. 3, 30–33 Otherwise, EOG’s offshore interests are de minimis and are operated by  third-party operators; see 2024 10-K, p. 8 EM-EP-000.C Number of terrestrial sites 2024 10-K, pp. 30–33 Greenhouse Gas Emissions EM-EP-110a.1 Gross global Scope 1 emissions,  percentage methane  Data Tear Sheet, p. 6 Environment — Managing Emissions, p. 30 EM-EP-110a.2 Gross global Scope 1 emissions by source Data Tear Sheet, p. 6""
""Environment — Managing Emissions, p. 30 EM-EP-110a.3 Discussion of long-term and short-term  strategy or plan to manage Scope 1  emissions, emissions reduction targets,  and an analysis of performance against  those targets Environment — Our Integrated Approach to Environmental  Management, pp. 13–17 Environment — Climate, pp. 18–20 Environment — Managing Emissions, pp. 21–34 Air Quality EM-EP-120a.1 Air emissions of the following pollutants:  (1) NOx (excluding N2O), (2) SOx,  (3) volatile""
""organic compounds (VOCs),  and (4) particulate matter (PM10) Data Tear Sheet, p. 6 Environment — Managing Emissions, p. 33 Disclosure Topic Disclosure Location Water Management EM-EP-140a.1 Fresh water consumed Data Tear Sheet, p. 6 Environment — Water Management, pp. 35–37 EM-EP-140a.3 Percentage of wells with disclosure of  fracturing fluid chemicals Appendix — Hydraulic Fracturing, p. 72 Biodiversity Impacts EM-EP-160a.1 Description of environmental management  policies and practices for""
""active sites Environment — Our Integrated Approach to Environmental  Management, pp. 13–17 Environment — Climate, pp. 18–20 Environment — Managing Emissions, pp. 21–34 Environment — Biodiversity and Land Stewardship, pp. 40–43 EM-EP-160a.2 Aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills,  volume in Arctic, and volume recovered Data Tear Sheet, p. 6 Environment — Spill Prevention and Management, pp. 38–39 Metrics for volumes in Arctic are not applicable to EOG. Security, Human Rights, & Rights of""
""active conflict. Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 79 2024 Sustainability Report Appendix  SASB and TCFD Indexes (continued) Disclosure Topic Disclosure Location Community Relations EM-EP-210b.1 Discussion of process to manage risks and  opportunities associated with community  rights and interests Social — Our Communities, pp. 45–48 Workforce Health & Safety EM-EP-320a.1  (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR),  (2) fatality rate Data Tear Sheet, p. 6 Social — Safety, pp.""
""54–58 EM-EP-320a.2 Discussion of management systems used to  integrate a culture of safety throughout the  exploration and production life cycle Social — Safety, pp. 54–58 Reserves Valuation & Capital Expenditures EM-EP-420a.1 Sensitivity of hydrocarbon reserve levels to  future price projection scenarios that account  for a price on carbon emissions Environment — Climate, pp. 18–20 EM-EP-420a.4 Discussion of how price and demand for  hydrocarbons and/or climate regulation  influence the capital""
""expenditure strategy  for exploration, acquisition, and development  of assets Environment — Climate, pp. 18–20 Business Ethics & Transparency EM-EP-510a.1 Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable  reserves in countries that have the 20 lowest  rankings in Transparency International’s  Corruption Perceptions Index We do not currently have proved or probable reserves in countries that  have the 20 lowest rankings in Transparency International’s Corruption  Perceptions Index. EM-EP-510a.2""
""Description of the management system  for prevention of bribery throughout the  value chain Governance — Oversight and Practices, pp. 66–67 Management of the Legal & Regulatory Environment EM-EP-530a.1 Discussion of corporate positions related  to government regulations and/or policy  proposals that address environmental and  social factors affecting the industry Environment — Climate, pp. 18–20 Governance — Oversight and Practices, pp. 66–67 Critical Incident Risk Management EM-EP-540a.2""
""Description of management systems used  to identify and mitigate catastrophic and  tail-end risks Social — Safety, pp. 54–58 2024 TCFD Index Disclosure Topic Disclosure Location Governance Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities Management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks  and opportunities Environment — Climate, pp. 18–20 Governance — Oversight and Practices, pp. 63–68  Strategy Climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified""
""over the short, medium, and long term Impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s  businesses, strategy, and financial planning Resilience of the company’s strategy under different climate-related  scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario Environment — Climate, pp. 18–20  Environment — Managing Emissions, pp. 21–34 Risk Management Processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks Processes for managing climate-related risks Integration of climate-""
""related risks into overall risk management Environment — Our Integrated Approach to Environmental  Management, pp. 13–17 Environment — Climate, pp. 18–20  Environment — Managing Emissions, pp. 21–34  Governance — Oversight and Practices, pp. 63–68 Metrics and Targets Metrics used to assess climate-related risks and opportunities Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions and the  related risks Targets used to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and  performance against targets Data""
""Tear Sheet, p. 6 Environment — Our Integrated Approach to Environmental  Management, pp. 13–17 Environment — Climate, pp. 18–20 Environment — Managing Emissions, pp. 21–34 Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 80 2024 Sustainability Report Appendix  Metrics Topic 2024 Metric Flaring Gross Annual Volume Flared Gas (Mcf) 470,009 Percentage of Gas Flared per  Mcf of Gas Produced EOG Gross Annual Volume of Flared Gas (Mcf)  EOG Gross Annual Gas Production (Mcf) 0.04% Volume of Gas""
""Flared per Thousand  Barrels of Oil Equivalent EOG Gross Annual Volume of Flared Gas (Mcf)  EOG Gross Annual Production (Boe) 0.001 Water Use Freshwater Intensity EOG Fresh Water Consumed (Bbl)  EOG Gross Annual Production (Boe) 0.210 Water Recycling Rate EOG Recycled Water (Bbl)  EOG Total Water Consumed (Bbl) 50% Water Stress Assessment  Does EOG use WRI Aqueduct, GEMI, Water Risk Filter, Water Risk Monetizer,  or other comparable tool or methodology to determine the water stressed areas  in""
""portfolio? YES American Exploration and Production Council Metrics In February 2021, the American Exploration and Production Council (AXPC) released a voluntary framework  of common environmental, social, and governance metrics to support more consistency and comparability in  reporting across independent oil and natural gas exploration and production companies in the United States. EOG currently discloses data on all of the metric categories covered by the AXPC framework in the Data Tear""
""strive to continually improve our data- performance reporting, and in an effort to provide improved consistency and comparability in data across the  industry, will continue to evaluate appropriate frameworks for reporting in future years. 2024 AXPC Metrics Metrics Topic 2024 Metric Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG Emissions (metric tons CO2e) 5,700,929 GHG Intensity EOG GHG Emissions (metric tons CO2e)   EOG Gross Annual Production (MBoe) — as Reported Under Subpart W 12.77 Percent of GHG Emissions""
""Attributed  to Boosting and Gathering Segment 69% Methane Emissions (metric tons CH4) 9,479 Methane Intensity EOG Methane Emissions (metric tons CH4)  EOG Gross Annual Production (MBoe) — as Reported Under Subpart W 0.02 Percent of Methane Emissions  Attributed to Boosting and Gathering 72% Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 81 2024 Sustainability Report Appendix  American Exploration and Production Council Metrics (continued) Metrics Topic 2024 Metric Safety Employee Total""
""Recordable  Incident Rate Number of EOG Employee OSHA Recordable Cases x 200,000  EOG Employee Workhours 0.19 Contractor Total Recordable  Incident Rate Number of EOG Contractor OSHA Recordable Cases x 200,000  EOG Contractor Workhours 0.38 Combined Total Recordable  Incident Rate Number of EOG Employee and Contractor OSHA Recordable Cases x 200,000  EOG Employee and Contractor Workhours 0.36 Metrics Topic 2024 Metric Supporting Data Gross Annual Oil Production (Bbl)  246,810,245 Gross Annual""
""Gas Production (Mcf) 1,197,731,218 Gross Annual Production (Boe) 446,432,115 Gross Annual Production (MBoe) 446,432 Gross Annual Production — As Reported Under Subpart W (MBoe) 446,432 Fresh Water Consumed (Bbl) 93,298,613 Recycled Water (Bbl) 164,111,192 Total Water Consumed (Bbl) 328,082,774 Employee OSHA Recordable Cases 6 Contractor OSHA Recordable Cases 70 Combined OSHA Recordable Cases 76 Annual Employee Workhours 6,301,159 Annual Contractor Workhours 36,378,751 Annual Combined Workhours""
""42,679,910 Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 82 2024 Sustainability Report Appendix  Internal and Third-Party  Verification and Assurance Additional Disclosures EOG’s sustainability reporting involves various internal subject matter  experts who were called upon to provide verified information for each  of the topics included in this report. Members of EOG’s Internal Audit  team also participated in the verification and review of the data included  in this report.  EOG obtained""
""independent third-party verification and reasonable  assurance of our 2024 Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions and energy  use data included in the Data Tear Sheet. EOG obtained independent  third-party verification and limited assurance of our 2024 Scope 3 GHG  emissions data included in the Data Tear Sheet. This verification was  performed by an internationally recognized certification body according  to the ISO 14064 - 3:2019 — Greenhouse Gases — Part 3: Specification  with Guidance for the""
""Validation and Verification of Greenhouse Gas  Statements. Prior-year GHG emissions and energy use data included  in the Data Tear Sheet were also subject to independent third-party  verification and assurance in the year first reported.  Prior to publication, this report was also reviewed by EOG’s executive  officers and the members of the Nominating, Governance and  Sustainability Committee of EOG’s Board of Directors.  FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report includes certain “forward-looking""
""statements” within the  meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended,  and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,  including statements regarding EOG’s plans, objectives, and projections  with respect to our current and future operations, performance, and  business strategy and statements regarding EOG’s practices, programs,  policies, initiatives, plans, goals, objectives, strategies, ambitions, and  targets with respect to environmental, safety, and""
""sustainability-related  matters. Although EOG believes the expectations reflected in our  forward-looking statements are reasonable and are based on reasonable  assumptions, no assurance can be given that such assumptions  are accurate or will prove to have been correct or that any of such  expectations will be achieved (in full or at all) or will be achieved on the  expected or anticipated timelines. EOG’s forward-looking statements  speak only as of the date made, and EOG undertakes no""
""those  factors set forth in EOG’s subsequent filings with the SEC. EMISSIONS TARGETS AND AMBITION Our statements in this report regarding our emissions targets and  ambition are not a guarantee that the targets and ambition will be  achieved or achieved on the anticipated timelines or that, if achieved,  will be sustained. Our ability to achieve and, if achieved, maintain our  emissions targets and ambition are subject to numerous factors and  conditions, some of which are outside of our""
""control, and include,  among other things, evolving government regulation, potential revisions  to emissions estimates as measurement technologies advance or due  to changes in protocols or methodologies, and the pace of changes in  technology. In addition, our ability to achieve and, if achieved, maintain  our emissions targets and ambition are subject to certain commercial,  operational, technological, financial, legal and regulatory risks,  uncertainties and contingencies. Introduction""
""Environment Governance Appendix Social 83 2024 Sustainability Report Appendix  Additional Disclosures (continued) SCENARIO ANALYSIS AND  THIRD-PARTY SCENARIOS The reference case model used for our companywide operations  includes operations as of December 31, 2024, and does not include  operations acquired from Encino Acquisition Partners in August 2025.  Strip prices used in the model are as of December 31, 2024.   The scenario discussed in this report from the IEA’s World Energy  Outlook 2024""
""is based on the IEA’s Announced Pledges Scenario.  The IEA’s Announced Pledges Scenario is based on the assumption  that all of the climate commitments made by countries, industries,  and companies around the world, including Nationally Determined  Contributions and net zero targets, will be achieved in full and on time  and illustrates how far current pledges will go in helping to reach the goal  of limiting the rise in global average temperatures to 1.5°C. In its World  Energy Outlook 2024,""
""the IEA also presents a Stated Policies Scenario  and a Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario. Projected energy demand  is highest under the Stated Policies Scenario, which incorporates existing  policy frameworks affecting energy markets and specific policy initiatives  that have been announced. The Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario  models a pathway to reach net zero emissions globally by 2050, resulting  in lower projected energy demand relative to the Announced Pledges  Scenario. The IEA""
""does not endorse any particular scenario, nor does  EOG. The use or inclusion herein of a third-party scenario reflects the  modeling assumptions and outputs of the respective scenario authors  and is not an endorsement by EOG of its accuracy or likelihood.  RESERVES The proved reserves disclosed in this report represent the quantities of  oil and gas that are estimated to be recoverable with a high degree of  confidence; such quantities are only estimates and may not correspond  to the""
""quantities of oil and gas ultimately recovered. For related  discussion, see the sections entitled “Risk Factors” and “Supplemental  Information to Consolidated Financial Statements — Oil and Gas  Producing Activities” in EOG’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal year ended December 31, 2024. Statements in this report of  “resource potential” represent the resource potential net to EOG and  are not proved reserves, and may include estimated potential reserves  not necessarily calculated""
""Metrics in  this report with respect to prior years may be revised from previous  sustainability reports to reflect updated data and other information.  Any updates to the metrics in the Data Tear Sheet in this report, prior  to our next sustainability report, will be set forth in the Data Tear Sheet  posted to the Sustainability section of the EOG website. Total amounts  presented in this report may not equal the sum of their components  due to rounding. Percent changes presented in this report""
""may reflect  rounding. Crude oil equivalent volumes are determined using a ratio  of 1.0 barrel of crude oil and condensate or natural gas liquids to 6.0  thousand cubic feet of natural gas.  ABOUT EOG EOG Resources, Inc. (NYSE: EOG) is one of the largest crude oil and  natural gas exploration and production companies in the United States,  with proved reserves in the U.S. and Trinidad. For further information  regarding EOG and our operations, please see our information filed with  and/or""
""furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission from  time to time and our corporate website at eogresources.com. Introduction Environment Governance Appendix Social 84 2024 Sustainability Report Appendix  www.eogresources.com 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1111 Bagby, Sky Lobby 2 Houston, TX 77002""
