""Sustainability  Report 2024  2 Introduction..........................................................................................................3 Benefits to Stakeholders.......................................................................................................3 Mission and Vision................................................................................................................4 Strategic Focus""
""Areas...........................................................................................................4 Affordability, Reliability, Sustainability.................................................................................5 Key Sustainability Topics......................................................................................................5 Sustainability Reporting........................................................................................................6""
""Environmental.......................................................................................................8 Annual Overview....................................................................................................................8 Energy....................................................................................................................................8 Water Conservation and""
""Quality...........................................................................................23 Waste and Toxicity................................................................................................................26 Natural Resources/Conservation/Biodiversity....................................................................28 Risks and Opportunities........................................................................................................31""
""Structure......................................................................................................................76 Governance Highlights..........................................................................................................78 Sustainability Governance....................................................................................................81 Forward-Looking Statements.............................................................................84 TABLE""
""OF CONTENTS Labor, Health, and Safety......................................................................................................67 Emissions..............................................................................................................................20 Stakeholder Engagement Procedure...................................................................................52 Community-based Environmental""
""opportunities in our region and remains committed to delivering  safe, reliable, affordable, and sustainable energy to customers while being a great place to work and supporting the  communities we serve.  Sustainability has consistently been at the forefront of our business. Evergy was created from a merger between  companies that have been within the communities we serve for more than 125 years. To sustain our company, we  believe in a balanced approach and are committed to adapting as the""
""market changes. From Evergy’s grid resiliency  investments and our all-the-above approach to generation and demand-side management, to our focus on community  engagement and customer support, we work every day to provide reliable and affordable energy, sustainably, for  communities today and for years to come.  Since 2005, we have reduced carbon emissions by 57 percent, and sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions by 98  percent and 90 percent, respectively. We have made significant changes""
""to our generation portfolio over time and  our integrated resource plan, which maps out how we plan to meet customer needs over the next 20 years, includes  adding new power plants, of all types, as we manage our generation portfolio. We also have supportive demand- side management laws in Missouri and Kansas that provide for utility-offered programs and Commission-approved  portfolios in both states. Missouri and Kansas are experiencing record economic development growth, attracting new""
""business at a historic pace. Investing in new power plants and demand-side management programs helps meet our  customers’ current needs and prepares us for the future.      Benefits to Stakeholders Throughout this report, callouts specifically outline Evergy’s emphasis on stakeholder benefits as we highlight our work  across the business. Our products and services enable affordable, reliable energy for customers; ongoing expansion of a  diverse set of energy solutions; a rewarding work""
""environment for employees; and growth in the communities we serve.  Introduction Introduction |   4     Mission and Vision  At Evergy, we seek to empower a better future for our 1.7 million customers we have the privilege to serve across  Kansas and Missouri. We strive to provide affordable, reliable, and sustainable service to our customers and  communities. To deliver on this, our corporate strategy centers on five key strategic focus areas to allow us to be a  rewarding place to work for our""
""regulatory proceedings are critical to our mission and vision.  ​  Balanced Generation Portfolio. We aspire to have a balanced generation portfolio that reflects the input of regulators  and stakeholders and integrates a mix of resources as part of an all-of-the-above generation portfolio strategy –  advancing and balancing the objectives of affordability, reliability, and sustainability.  Customer & Demand Transformation. Customer expectations for, and engagement with, electricity providers are""
""evolving rapidly – and electrification is making our product more and more critical to daily life. We will play a central  role in offering new products and rate plans and fostering economic development across our region.   Introduction |  We empower a better future. OUR MISSION To provide affordable, reliable, and sustainable energy that creates the  foundation for thriving and growing communities. OUR VISION  5     Affordability, Reliability, Sustainability  Evergy’s mission is to empower a""
""demand-side management programs in Kansas to  provide our residential customers and business customers an opportunity to reduce their usage by upgrading to more  energy efficient equipment and participating in customer-friendly grid solutions, such as demand response programs.  These include programs tailored to benefit low-income customers.  Reliability: Our focus on safe and reliable service includes investments to modernize our transmission and distribution  infrastructure to improve""
""reliability for our customers and improve the resiliency of the electric grid and its ability  to withstand extreme weather. By replacing aging equipment and investing in smart grid technologies, we seek to  enable further efficiency gains in serving our customers. Our focus on reliability also includes effectively managing  our generation fleet and investing to meet the requirements of a changing energy industry, including the increased  challenges and opportunities brought on by large-scale""
""renewable resources and the retirement of older plants.  Sustainability: Evergy is making significant investments in infrastructure to cost-effectively serve the growing needs of  our customers while also advancing reliability and resiliency. Our five year capital expenditure plan is largely driven by our  need to construct new generation resources while continuing to further modernize and improve our grid with projects  that support reliability, resiliency, and economic growth. In 2024, we""
""submitted requests to our regulators to approve  the construction of three new natural gas units and three new utility-scale solar arrays, and we continue to evaluate  additional generation resources as identified in our Integrated Resource Plan (IRP). We also updated our distribution  investment plan to further enhance our grid to directly benefit our customers. We continued to offer pilot programs,  such as our residential battery storage system program to understand how new technology can""
""increase grid resiliency  while also benefiting customers. Positioning Evergy to be able to make these capital investments and maintain a strong  investment grade credit rating was a significant accomplishment in 2024, one that required constructive collaboration  with all our stakeholders.       Key Sustainability Topics  Periodically, Evergy identifies key sustainability topics for reporting, allowing for a current-state view of  performance against existing frameworks and peer practices.""
""Several internal and external sources are used  to define and validate these priority topics. We have updated the priority topics to align with Evergy’s vision and  strategy. Additionally, Evergy’s Corporate Sustainability team is in the Corporate Strategy department, led by  Evergy’s Vice President of Strategy and Long-Term Planning, to further integrate sustainability best practices into  Evergy's strategy. 1 Cumulative rate increase since the end of 2017 through the end of November 2024.""
""Regional electric state data is sourced from the U.S. Energy Information  Administration (EIA) and is comprised of revenues and sales for all sectors. 2024 data is based on a rolling 12-month average of total revenues and sales through  the end of November 2024. Introduction |   6     Sustainability Reporting Evergy provides quantitative and qualitative data on various environmental, social, and governance areas of focus,  including those relating to emissions, waste, and water on our investor""
""Social, and Governance  materiality review process, are different than the definition used in the context of filings with the SEC. Issues deemed  material for purposes of this Report and for purposes of determining our Environmental, Social, and Governance  strategies may not be considered material for SEC reporting purposes. Introduction |   7 2025 IRP Update Overview investors.evergy.com/2025IRPUpdate Evergy EEI Sustainability Metrics investors.evergy.com/EEI-Sustainability-Metrics Evergy TCFD""
""Report investors.evergy.com/TCFD Evergy SASB Report  investors.evergy.com/SASB Investor Website investors.evergy.com For ease of use, the table below provides a comprehensive list of Evergy’s public filings that are related to  environmental, social, and governance reporting, as well as other resources mentioned in this report. 2024 CDP Report  investors.evergy.com/CDPReport Governance Documents  Charters & Policies investors.evergy.com/corporate-governance/documents-charters Introduction |  GRI""
""investors.evergy.com/2022-global-reporting-initiative-report  8     Annual Overview Our most recent Integrated Resource Plan (IRP) outlines a potential strategy to add nearly 8,000 megawatts of  renewable energy from wind and solar and more than 7,500 megawatts of new, hydrogen-enabled natural gas generation  over the next two decades – as our service area is experiencing record-setting economic development. Our IRP also  incorporates continued investment in demand-side management programs. By""
""the end of 2024, Evergy achieved a  reduction in carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions of 57 percent from 2005 levels. This reflects considerable progress toward  our long-term target of net-zero CO2e, for scope 1 and scope 2, by 2045. Additionally, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide  emissions have decreased by 98 percent and 90 percent, respectively compared to 2005. Together these reductions help  us improve air quality in our service area and in neighboring states as well. Achieving the company's""
""long term net-zero goal is expected to be dependent on the evolution of Evergy's integrated  resource plans (IRP) and many external factors, including enabling technology developments, trends in total demand  for electricity, the reliability of the power grid, availability of transmission capacity, supportive energy policies and  regulations, and other external factors. Evergy has continued piloting utility scale battery storage technology with our  Switchgrass Battery Storage Pilot Project,""
""Evergy’s first lithium-ion battery, and through residential battery pilot programs.  In recent years, we acquired Persimmon Creek Wind Farm, a 199-megawatt wind farm that provides carbon-free energy  for our Kansas customers.     Energy Balanced Generation Portfolio In 2024, more than half of the electricity we  generated came from carbon-free sources.  We have added over 4,600 megawatts  of renewable generation (including both  owned generation resources and renewable  energy sourced through""
""long-term power  purchase agreements) into our generation  fleet. Since 2005, we have retired more  than 2,400 megawatts of fossil generation.  In 2024, renewable resources represented  nearly 27 percent of our total generation  nameplate capacity. We use a triennial Integrated Resource  Plan (IRP), a detailed analysis that  estimates factors that influence the  future supply and demand for electricity,  to inform our long-term electricity supply  Environmental Environmental |   9 strategy. The""
""integrated resource plan considers forecasts of future electricity demand, fuel prices, transmission  improvements, new generating capacity, cost of environmental compliance, integration of renewables, energy storage,  energy efficiency and demand response initiatives. We update the IRP annually. Our 2025 IRP update shows that coal  nameplate capacity is expected to decline to 31 percent by 2030 from about 38 percent in 2025, and for that decline  to accelerate further with planned coal plant""
""retirements next decade. While our coal generation has served our region  well for decades, this transition from older coal resources is a component of the ongoing balanced portfolio strategy  and the provision of affordable, reliable, and sustainable electric power. By 2030, many of Evergy's coal resources  will be over 50 years old. Given the age and condition of these units, increasing importance of reliability for resource  adequacy purposes, broader headwinds to the fuel supply and coal""
""industry supply chain, and future environmental  regulations risk, Evergy feels it is important to have a pragmatic long-term plan that balances customer risks and  trade-offs of retirement.   To continue planning for our future, in May 2025, we issued a Request for Proposals (RFP) for generation resources  to serve our customers. The all-source RFP solicited bids for Evergy’s purchase or contracting with a minimum size  of 50 megawatts (MW) of energy resources that will be in service by 2032.""
""More information regarding Evergy's newly  issued RFP can be found at evergy2025rfp.rfpmanager.biz/. Transitioning to owning and operating more of the renewable energy we provide and depending less upon purchased  power agreements with other entities is also an element of our business plan. We believe that having more control  over sustainable assets will enable us to better ensure affordability and reliability and retain long-term value and  flexibility for our customers. To successfully carry""
""out our renewable energy strategy, we have created a dedicated  generation development and renewable energy department that reports to our Vice-President of Development. Environmental |   10 Evergy’s Renewable Generation  Our renewable generation portfolio is  diverse and includes wind, solar, and  biogas resources. In our most recent IRP,  we outlined our plan to add approximately  8,000 megawatts of renewable energy over  the next 20 years.  Wind  Evergy has expanded wind energy  production""
""for years, as our service area  is located in the heart of the Midwest,  where majority of the United States’ wind  electricity generation capacity exists1.  With the acquisition of the  199-megawatt Persimmon Creek  Wind Farm, we now own or have under  contract more than 4,500 megawatts of  wind generation capacity. Strategically  growing our wind portfolio over the last  two decades has taken advantage of  our region's world-class wind resources,  adding new, low-cost resources to  the""
""portfolio and helping fuel Kansas’  4,525 MW 4,525 estimated megawatts of  wind capacity, including owned  generating capacity and renewable  power purchase agreements.  11 1  https://www.eia.gov/energyexplained/wind/where-wind-power-is-harnessed.php 2  EIA - https://www.eia.gov/tools/faqs/faq.php?id=427&t=3 top-five state ranking1 for the most wind generation. The total wind electricity generation in the United States is  approximately 10 percent2 of all energy generation sources while Evergy’s""
""wind generation percentage is more than  three times that at 31 percent. Solar  Evergy owns or has funded more than 75 solar projects in Kansas and Missouri. During 2024 and looking forward to  2025, Evergy will be involved in the construction of additional solar generation totaling more than 35 megawatts and  will continue activity to significantly expand solar build into the latter half of the decade as indicated in Evergy’s most  recent annual IRP. In 2024 and the first quarter of 2025,""
""Evergy filed requests with the Kansas Corporation Commission and the Missouri  Public Service Commission initiating a formal process in each state for permission to plan and construct multiple  solar projects. The Missouri filing included two utility-scale projects, Sunflower Sky (~65MW) and Foxtrot (~100MW).  The Kansas filing included one project, Kansas Sky (~160MW). If approved, all three projects are projected to be  completed by the end of 2026.  During 2023, Evergy placed a new""
""10-megawatt solar array at our Hawthorn  Generating Station in Kansas City, MO  into service. The site is made up of more  than 22,000 solar panels. Portions of the  project support Evergy’s solar subscription  customers and income-eligible solar pilot  customers within Evergy's Metro and  Missouri West service areas. The income- eligible solar subscription program is available  for both homeowners and renters who want  to enjoy solar energy with no increase to their  monthly bill. Eligible""
""residents can sign up  through a simple application on  Evergy’s Income Eligible Solar Subscription website.  Hawthorn solar is Evergy’s largest single-axis tracking array, which rotates the panels by using GPS data to find the  optimal angle. This technology can boost annual energy production by up to 25 percent when compared to a similarly sized fixed-tilt array. In addition, the site features a pollinator friendly and native grass blend, which aligns  seamlessly with Evergy’s sustainability""
""goals and Monarch butterfly conservation commitment. Hawthorn Solar is  anticipated to produce 21,000 MWh annually over the next 25 years. Environmental |   12 Biogas Energy The 3 million tons of decomposing waste in St. Joseph, MO's landfill continually produces methane, which our Evergy  landfill gas plant converts into enough electricity to power up to 1,000 homes annually. Landfill gas is an important  source of waste-based, renewable energy that can generate distributed base load power.""
""Evergy also purchases power  from Rolling Meadows in Topeka, KS, a 6-megawatt landfill gas-to-energy plant that has been producing electricity for  our customers since 2010. Environmental |  Evergy’s New Generation We are in the early stages of an unprecedented economic development opportunity, in our country and in our region,  that is expected to develop over the next decade and in which we have the opportunity and privilege to play a  significant role. Missouri and Kansas are experiencing""
""historic economic development opportunities, and Evergy has  mapped out plans to meet our customers’ energy needs today and in the future.  For Evergy, these plans include making the significant investments in infrastructure required to serve the growing  needs of our customers while also ensuring reliability and resiliency. In 2024, we increased our five year capital  expenditure plan, driven by our need to construct new generation resources while continuing to further modernize  and improve""
""our grid with projects that support reliability, resiliency, and economic growth. We are advancing plans to  construct new natural gas units and new utility-scale solar projects, and we continue to evaluate additional projects as  identified in our Integrated Resource Plans.  13 Environmental |  Combined, these plants will provide flexible generation  that pairs well with other resources and will meet  stringent emissions standards. They also represent major  investments in both states that will""
""serve customers and  communities over the next 40 years.   Evergy is also in various stages of developing utility scale  solar. Regulatory proceedings in Kansas and Missouri  taking place in 2024 and early 2025 included requests for  early-stage planning for these projects. These new projects are helping to meet the current and projected need of our customers. These needs are largely  determined by our Integrated Resource Plan (IRP). The IRP process produces a “preferred plan” that weighs""
""expected growth in demand in the short and long term against criteria like ongoing cost in operations, environmental  compliance, programs that help customers reduce demand and adding sources of energy to meet that expected  growth. The preferred plan provides the framework to meet current and future energy needs while minimizing  expected cost across many different scenarios. Evergy’s all-the-above approach to generation allows us to balance  longer lead-time plants with those that can deliver""
""power in shorter timeframes. By using this mix, we position  ourselves to deliver reliable, affordable, and sustainable energy to our customers today and well into the future. In Spring of 2025, plans to construct  a new, simple-cycle natural gas  plant in Missouri were announced. In Fall of 2024, plans to construct two new, combined-cycle  natural gas plants in Kansas were announced.  Estimated Commercial Operations  Summer 2030 Estimated Commercial Operations  Summer 2029 Estimated Commercial""
""Operations  Summer 2030  14 Environmental |  Reliability Evergy increased the five year capital expenditure plan to $17.5 billion including approximately $6.2 billion in new  generation investments to meet current customers' needs, help enable historic economic development opportunities in  Kansas and Missouri, meet increasingly stringent capacity reliability requirements of the Southwest Power Pool, among  other factors. We also increased our distribution investment plan to further modernize""
""and improve our grid with projects  that support reliability, resiliency, and economic growth. Positioning Evergy to be able to make these capital investments  and maintain a strong investment grade credit rating was a significant accomplishment in 2024. $1.4 billion invested in 2024 transmission and distribution infrastructure upgrades Our customers rely on us to deliver the energy they need, when and where they need it. With increased dependence on  electricity for our everyday lives, system""
""plains. To achieve this, we are  modernizing our electric grid by deploying advanced technologies - leveraging our Private LTE (long-term evolution)  network for secure communication, implementing intelligent control software, and launching an innovative vegetation  management program to proactively reduce outages. Our capital investments in replacing aged infrastructure, enabling grid automation, data handling and analytics  capabilities, and building advanced communications infrastructure are""
""all aimed at improving overall grid reliability  and resiliency. Proactive grid modernization efforts and smart grid technologies will also better enable our grid to  integrate a range of new generation resources. The installation and implementation of advanced communicating  devices will help reduce outage restoration times. We are working toward a more modern, reliable, and resilient grid that is also prepared for the changes and technology  breakthroughs that are transforming the energy""
""industry. Energy Innovation Battery Storage Projects Innovation is key in finding new ways to serve our  customers with reliable, affordable, and sustainable  energy. Battery storage is just one innovation that  we are exploring and incorporating. The 2025 IRP  preferred plan calls for the incorporation of battery  storage technology in 2030. In 2022, we completed  our first utility-scale lithium-ion battery project.  The Switchgrass Battery Storage Pilot Project was  operational in the fall of""
""2022 and is located adjacent  to the Sedgwick County Zoo in Wichita, KS. This battery provides one megawatt of power to the Southwest Power Pool  (SPP) Market or, in cases of emergency, the neighboring zoo and can operate for up to four hours from a full charge. BENEFIT TO STAKEHOLDERS Providing a reliable, safe, and secure power grid to our customers is an essential part of Evergy's mission,  including the ability to withstand and recover safely and effectively from extreme weather events.   15""
""In 2023, Evergy began accepting applications for a battery  storage pilot at customer homes in Missouri to gain insight  into customer value, grid optimization support, and enhanced  reliability. The three-year residential Battery Storage Pilot  Program consists of the installation of approximately 50  battery storage systems within Evergy’s Missouri Metro  and Missouri West service areas. In 2024, the program was  expanded to a 100 behind-the-meter residential customers  pilot in Kansas by the""
""approval of the Kansas Corporation  Commission (KCC). By the end of April 2025, installation of  100 battery systems were completed in three locations –  Wichita, Topeka/Lawrence and KS Metro.  Operational data  from the battery systems will be collected and evaluated for  customer savings and utility benefits. Total capacity of 2.1  MWh of energy storage will help Evergy reduce peak load  during the summer and demand response events. This project will support initial testing and integration of""
""the  technology into existing grid operations. Customer benefits  include optimization of home energy costs and greater  flexibility in managing solar self-consumption, thermostats  and EV charging, along with providing access to a backup  power source. The project can also help us understand  customer preference and usage patterns to complement time-of-use rate offerings, decarbonization goals, or  electrification initiatives. Both battery storage projects will provide Evergy real-time data and""
""insight into how this  technology integrates with, and supports, sustainable grid functionality and reliability. Residential Managed Charging and Fleet Advisory Services Pilots Electric vehicle (EV) charging continues to proliferate in Evergy’s service area. To continue to evaluate the impact  of EV charging on Evergy’s grid, in September 2024, Evergy filed two new electric vehicle (EV) programs in Kansas.   In March 2025, Evergy reached a unanimous agreement to offer a Residential Managed""
""Charging Pilot and a Fleet  Advisory Services Pilot.  The Residential Managed Charging (RMC) Pilot is a five-year pilot program aimed to optimize  the charging patterns of EV drivers who charge at home. It will test two methods of load shaping, passive and active,  to gather valuable data and insights for a future full-scale program. The goal is to encourage off-peak charging, which  benefits both the grid and our customers by reducing overall system costs and enhancing grid stability. Secondly,""
""the  Fleet Advisory Services Pilot is a three-year program designed to support fleet electrification customers by providing  them with the necessary information and insights to implement optimized infrastructure and charging strategies. This  program will help fleets transition to electric vehicles in a cost-effective and grid-friendly manner, ultimately benefiting  all Evergy customers through reduced system costs and improved environmental quality. Technology Evergy’s Unmanned Systems program,""
""such as transmission towers, power lines,  substations, and confined spaces without putting workers at risk during manual inspections or maintenance tasks.  •  Increased efficiency: Coverage of large areas quickly, allowing for faster and more frequent inspections of  infrastructure utilizing high-resolution images or videos processed and analyzed to identify potential issues or areas  needing further attention.  Environmental |   16 •  Cost savings: Reduced labor costs for manual inspections""
""and maintenance and minimized need for expensive  equipment such as helicopters or specialized vehicles.  •  Enhanced data collection and analysis: Advanced sensors and cameras can collect a wide range of data, including  thermal imaging, LIDAR (Light Detection and Ranging), and electromagnetic field measurements. All used to identify  issues enabling proactive assessment and predictive maintenance.  •  Disaster response and recovery: Quickly assess damage to electrical infrastructure,""
""identify areas that need  immediate attention, and help prioritize repair efforts in the aftermath of natural disasters like tornadoes, floods, or  wildfires. This can speed up the restoration of power to affected communities.  •  Environmental monitoring: Helping to track the environmental impact of our operations, such as assisting with   compliance of regulations related to protected habitats or wildlife. Grid Modernization  Modernizing Evergy’s grid helps reduce the frequency and duration""
""of power outages by quickly identifying and  addressing issues, as well as increasing the grid's ability to withstand extreme weather events and other potential  threats by deploying smart assets. Examples of the assets we currently utilize are reclosers, various controllers, sensors,  fault indicators, and regulators. We are also adding smart controls and smart communications to substations and other  existing assets to increase reliability and efficiency of response if a problem occurs. By""
""management, fault location, distribution control, and the performance of other  smart assets on our distribution grid. Evergy’s grid modernization is also essential for integrating wind, solar, and other renewable energy sources that  reduce the reliance on fossil fuels and lower greenhouse gas emissions. Evergy has been a leader in implementing  a Distributed Energy Resource Management System (DERMS) for many years and continues to evolve its DERMS as  more customer behind-the-meter""
""opportunities prevail. For example, the DERMS allows for better demand response  management, where electricity consumers can adjust their power usage during peak times, helping to balance the  load on the grid and reduce the need for additional generation.  Distributed Energy Resource Programs Solar Subscription Evergy’s Solar Subscription programs provide customers with renewable energy solutions through a local community- based initiative without the upfront expense and hassle of installing""
""and maintaining solar. Evergy offers Solar  Subscription programs in Missouri and Kansas. Evergy’s first 1.2 MW community solar array went online in 2016 in  Hutchinson, KS and is fully subscribed by Kansas Central customers. Evergy’s second 10 MW solar array located in  Missouri went into service on repurposed land around its Hawthorn power plant. A portion of this array (5 MW) is  designated for Evergy’s solar subscription program for its Missouri and Kansas Metro customers, and an additional""
""1 MW is allocated for Missouri income-eligible customers. Evergy has 4.1 MW of the 5 MW solar subscription  program fulfilled with more than 1,200 customers. Evergy is enrolling Missouri customers for the income-eligible  portion and is currently 20% subscribed. The remaining 4 MW of the Hawthorn array provides energy to a portion of  Evergy’s retail customers. Environmental |   17 Wind Subscription Evergy also offers a subscription program that allows customers to offset up to 100 percent of""
""their electric usage with  locally generated wind energy. Environmental |  Renewable Partnerships - Solar Evergy is committed to providing  our customers with cost-effective,  reliable renewable energy solutions  to help build a more sustainable  future. As part of that commitment  Evergy Energy Solutions and Evergy  Energy Partners provide turnkey  services to meet the growing needs  of customers within and outside our  service area, respectively.   18 2024 Projects Details Southern Star""
""Central Gas By leveraging solar power, Southern Star offsets a substantial amount of  greenhouse gas emissions—specifically, 1,270 metric tons of CO2 each year.  This reduction in emissions is equivalent to the environmental benefits  provided by planting 20,996 trees over ten years or serving the annual power  needs of 175 homes with clean energy. The solar array, with a capacity  of 999 kW AC, is designed to produce an impressive 1.8 MWh of energy  annually. The collaboration with Evergy""
""Energy Solutions underscores the  effectiveness of partnerships in driving sustainable energy practices within  traditional energy sectors. Environmental |  The City of Osawatomie The City of Osawatomie solar array became operational in the fall of 2024.  Spanning approximately 40 acres of land, the solar array will generate 6.38 MW  of clean, renewable energy for both the community and the state hospital.  This project not only fosters economic development and growth but also  ensures a""
""sustainable future for generations to come. The City of Osage City The City of Osage solar array became operational in the fall of 2024, covering  approximately 8 acres, and generates 1.75 MW of energy. This project, utilizing  a retired landfill property, marks a significant step in our commitment to  sustainable energy and environmental stewardship. By harnessing solar power,  we reduce our carbon footprint and pave the way for a cleaner, greener future.  Additionally, the site features""
""pollinator-friendly grass blends, enhancing its  environmental benefits. Evergy’s Facilities and Fleet At Evergy, we know we want our stakeholders, customers, and employees to trust us to provide affordable, reliable,  and sustainable energy. This means leading by example. We are incorporating energy efficient and renewable  solutions at our own facilities and including electric-powered vehicles in our company fleet. In doing so, we  understand the importance of balancing innovation and cost.""
""Our goal is to be as sustainable as possible, without  sacrificing affordability or reliability. Evergy Facilities Sustainability Practices Evergy is incorporating sustainable building practices and renewable energy systems in our facilities. Our Lawrence Service Center was built as a LEED (Leadership in Energy  and Environmental Design) Silver facility in 2008, and our Kansas City  Headquarters offices were built in 2009 as a LEED Gold facility.  19 Buildings currently under construction, or""
""recently built, that use design concepts from LEED and other certifications  include: •  The Nevada Service Center - Includes high efficiency HVAC systems, increased daylight for the office areas, added  insulation, plumbing and conduit for future rainwater capture and solar installations. Solar arrays were installed in  2023, providing sustainable power to the facility to offset its energy use. The solar system also charges a battery  backup system that was installed instead of an emergency""
""backup generator, reducing emissions. •  The Emporia Service Center - Includes insulated concrete form (ICF) block walls, insulated concrete slabs, hydronic  heating for large service bays, office and conferencing areas with increased daylight and increased fresh air intake  using an energy recovery unit, solar panels with a battery-back up system, rainwater capture, native/minimal  maintenance and watering landscaping, and a walking trail in the native grass field. •  The Atchison Service""
""Center - Includes high efficiency HVAC systems, increased insulation, under slab insulation  and hydronic heating for service bays, and conduit for future solar installations. •  The Salina Service Center – Will include ICF block walls, insulated panel metal building systems and hydronic  heating in the shop, service, and warehouse areas. The building will also include electric vehicle charging and a solar  array with a battery back-up system. Rainwater harvesting and native landscaping will""
""reduce maintenance and  environmental impacts moving forward. This facility also allows for all area operations to be housed in one location,  improving efficiency and reducing travel to multiple material storage locations. Manhattan Service Center 40 kW Lawrence Service Center 39 kW Shawnee Service Center 74 kW Parsons Service Center 19 kW Wichita Service Center 21 kW Topeka General Office 10 kW Evergy Connect 25 kW Nevada Service Center 90 kW Emporia Service Center 186 kW Total: More than 504""
""kW of solar  power installed on Evergy facilities To further improve energy efficiency, high efficiency HVAC systems, and  LED lighting were installed at our Front and Manchester Service Center,  Blue Springs Service Center, and Lee’s Summit Service Center. LED lighting  uses 75 percent less energy than incandescent lighting. Existing HVAC  systems are also being evaluated for replacement to higher efficiency  units. When our existing roof systems are replaced, they are evaluated for""
""installation of additional insulation and high reflectivity coatings. Evergy has been installing renewable energy systems on company owned  property since 2014. In addition to the listed arrays, a 186 kW solar array  is planned for our new Salina Service Center which is expected to be  commissioned by the end of 2025. This array will also charge a battery  back-up system for the building in lieu of a standard generator. The primary  goals of the solar installation are to learn more about the""
""performance of  solar panels in our area, how they interact with existing system assets, and  to reduce standard generator emissions. These projects have the added  benefit of providing a portion of energy consumed at each location with  renewable generation. Environmental |  Evergy Vehicle Fleet Electrification Evergy’s internal vehicle fleet is a key component of progressing toward reliability and reducing emissions. In 2020,  Evergy announced that it had adopted the Edison Electric""
""Institute's (EEI) two-part fleet electrification goal, including  100 percent of new light-duty vehicle fleet purchases to be electrified units by 2030 and a target of 35 percent  or more of the overall vehicle fleet, including light-duty, medium-duty, heavy-duty, forklifts, and ATV/ UTV, to be  electrified by 2030.  20 We are making consistent progress in fleet electrification with 17 percent of our existing fleet electrified, including  47 percent of cars, vans, and SUVs and 46 percent of all""
""other equipment (forklifts, ATVs, carts, etc.) meeting the  electrified classification. Additionally, 23 percent of all bucket trucks have electric boom capabilities. Technology  limitations in light-duty pickup trucks have proved challenging due to the 24/7 nature of our industry. Evergy has  nearly 100 electric vehicle charging stations installed at Company facilities to support employees’ EV adoption  and our EEI initiative. We continue to monitor this space, piloting new technologies and""
""products as they become  available; ultimately, the pace of fleet electrification will depend on the availability, cost, and performance of the  required fleet equipment. Evergy has also implemented fleet management and telematics systems that allow us to optimize our fleet usage and  maintenance programs. These systems help us drive operational efficiencies, ultimately reducing fleet emissions and  idle times. Other specific idle-mitigation technologies for light-duty to heavy-duty vehicle""
""platforms have also been put  in place to reduce carbon emission output. In 2023, Evergy’s fleet management, telematics, and compliance processes were reviewed and evaluated by the  U.S. Department of Transportation Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration and received a satisfactory rating.  This confirms that we are meeting Federal requirements for safety and fleet maintenance programs. We continue  periodic internal and external audits of our programs to maintain safety and operational""
""excellence. Additional  driver training for the organization was completed in 2024 that includes an expanded emphasis on Department of  Transportation (DOT) regulations and requirements. We also continue to pilot vehicle camera systems across the  fleet to evaluate their impact on safety and vehicle operation performance.     Emissions Emissions Reductions and Environmental Leadership Almost a third of our annually generated power is sourced from renewables. When combined with the production""
""from our Wolf Creek Nuclear Generating Station, more than half of the power generated for homes and businesses  we serve comes from emission-free sources. Environmental |   21 Beyond these achieved reductions, Evergy has a  goal to achieve net-zero CO2e emissions, for scope  1 and scope 2, by 2045, through the responsible  transition of the Evergy Companies’ generation  fleet. The trajectory and timing of reaching our  net-zero goal depend on many external factors,  including enabling technology""
""developments,  trends in total demand for electricity, the reliability  of the power grid, availability of transmission  capacity, supportive energy policies and  regulations, and other factors. These external  factors are outside of Evergy’s control, and without  these enabling factors, we cannot be certain about  the achievement of Evergy’s long-term emissions  reduction goals. Evergy continues to outperform the United  States energy sector in reducing carbon dioxide  emissions. From a 2005""
""baseline, the United  States energy sector has reduced carbon dioxide  emissions by approximately 38 percent through  20241. Evergy achieved that reduction in 2018. As  of 2024, we have reduced carbon dioxide by 57  percent. In addition, we have achieved significant  emissions reductions in NOX and SO2 at our coal  facilities through the implementation of state-of-the-art air quality controls. Evergy’s fleet includes emissions control  equipment such as selective catalytic reduction systems,""
""fabric filters, and flue gas desulfurization systems. Environmental |  BENEFIT TO STAKEHOLDERS As Evergy reduces our carbon intensity and emissions footprint, all customers benefit from a reduction in  their carbon footprint, helping many meet their own established carbon targets. Additionally, cleaner air and  water benefit the health of our communities.  In 2024, Evergy achieved a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions of 57 percent, and sulfur dioxide (SO2) and  nitrogen oxide (NOX) emissions""
""by 98 and 90 percent, respectively, compared with the 2005 baseline numbers.  1  https://campd.epa.gov/data/custom-data-download  22 Environmental |  Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 Carbon Emissions The table below summarizes Evergy’s 2024 scope 1, scope 2, and scope 3 emissions. These individual scope  emissions represent several emissions sources that include direct emissions (scope 1), indirect emissions from       the generation of purchased electricity (scope 2), and other select categories of""
""indirect emissions that occur in the  company’s value chain (scope 3). For Evergy, this includes: •  Scope 1 emissions reported for stationary, mobile, and fugitive emission sources. •  Scope 2 (market-based) emissions reported for Evergy facilities (owned or leased), not served by Evergy.  Emissions were estimated using actual kWh purchases and electric supplier emission factors (when available);  when supplier specific emission factors were unavailable, national sub grid average carbon""
""dioxide emission  factors were used. •  Scope 3 emissions reported as per the established accounting standards in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 3  Standards for Category 6 (business travel) and Category 7 (employee commuting). Our 2024 scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions received independent third-party verification. The verification was performed  in accordance with ISO 14604-3:2006. Additional information can be found in the Verification Statement.  Scope 1 (metric tons) Generation Emissions CO2""
""20,644,649 Generation Emissions CO2e 20,906,788 Total Scope 1 CO2e* 20,958,294 Scope 2 (metric tons) Market Based* 2,943 Scope 3 (metric tons) Select Categories*  7,511 *Total scope 1 CO2e includes total emissions from  generating facilities, vehicle fleet, comfort heat,  SF6 (a gas used as an insulator in high voltage  equipment), and refrigerant losses *Facilities with electricity not served  by Evergy         *Includes business travel and employee  commuting  23 Emissions Reduction Efforts""
""In 2016, the transportation sector surpassed all other sectors in terms of greenhouse gas emissions in the United  States. Evergy is making consistent progress in fleet electrification with 17 percent of our existing fleet electrified,  including 47 percent of cars, vans, and SUVs and 46 percent of all other equipment (forklifts, ATVs, carts, etc.)  meeting the electrified classification. Additionally, 23 percent of all bucket trucks have electric boom capabilities. Additionally, Evergy has""
""invested significant resources to install state-of-the-art controls to substantially lower  emissions at our coal facilities. Over the past two decades, this work, in addition to fossil retirements, has achieved a  reduction of 57 percent carbon dioxide, 98 percent sulfur dioxide, and 90 percent nitrogen oxide as compared to a 2005 baseline year. These controls significantly reduce the nearby and regional impacts from these emissions. These  values will continue to improve as we transition""
""toward our net-zero goal for carbon emissions in 2045. Strategies we  are pursuing to reduce our emissions include: •  Developing renewable energy facilities; •  Grid investment and advancement; •  Collaborating with regulators to offer customers the opportunity to procure electricity produced with renewable  resources; and •  Investing in customer energy efficiency programs. Carbon Storage in Conservation Reserve Program Land Investing in renewable energy, responsibly retiring our coal""
""assets, promoting energy efficiency programs, and  implementing innovative technologies are moving our industry toward a low-carbon future. These advances, however,  cannot eliminate all carbon emissions. As our industry works to eliminate carbon emissions associated with our  energy supply and work processes, reliance on nature-based climate solutions, or “offsets,” will be increasingly  valuable. Our strategy to achieve our 2045 net-zero goal requires that Evergy be forward-thinking in our""
""short-term  investments today. More than seven million acres in the Great Plains have been protected from tillage under the USDA Conservation  Reserve Program (CRP). These acres have historically sequestered significant amounts of carbon, and many acres are  at risk of “aging out” of the established CRP program. As this happens, it is possible that the Great Plains region could  lose significant acres of prairie grass and stored soil carbon. Evergy has enabled a feasibility study that involves""
""research regarding modeling and certifying offsets, establishing  processes, and reviewing economic impacts of establishing a conservation reserve program on these acres that  would exist in perpetuity. Evergy's community investments department made a multi-year donation to Kansas  State University (KSU) to lead the program.  KSU has developed a visual map of the Kansas acres enrolled in the  Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) going back to 1982. The map shows yearly changes in CRP for the state""
""and by  county. This data will be used as a guide in targeting key counties for locating the contracted fields for permanence  and estimated soil carbon sequestration.        Water Conservation and Quality Evergy recognizes the importance of natural resources in our operations. Water from groundwater wells and natural  surface water resources are vital to our ability to produce electricity for our customers. All Evergy’s owned and  operated facilities that rely on process water for operation are""
""included in our 2024 EEI/ESG Metrics table. During 2024, Evergy responded to the CDP questionnaire for the third year. The CDP survey supports Evergy’s focus  on expanding disclosures and provides a comparable platform to disclose management programs regarding water  quantity and quality. Environmental |   24 Water Risk and Resilience Evergy completed a third-party Water Resilience Assessment that used several climate science data sources including  the National Oceanic and Atmospheric""
""Administration (NOAA) state climate summaries, United States Army Corps of  Engineers (USACE) climate hydrology assessment tool, United States Drought Monitor, and World Resources Institute  (WRI) Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas to understand current and future water-related risks to our generation assets,  providing benefit to our climate-related risks management and associated mitigation practices. As part of our ongoing  focus on water and risk management, we have implemented a solution at our""
""Iatan and Hawthorn Generating Stations  water intake structures to be able to operate in low flow conditions on the Missouri River.1 In addition to implementing technology to assist with water resilience, Evergy also diversifies water sources. Evergy  leverages water rights regulations to source water for operations from surface water and groundwater depending on  the availability and potential environmental impact.  Water sources for Evergy’s generation facilities include: •  Rivers – Major""
""waterways capable of supporting withdrawal, provide both Evergy’s supply water and location of  return water for subsequent downstream uses   •  Company-owned lakes – Evergy owned lakes provide stormwater runoff capture and storage from water that is  pumped from other surface and groundwater sources •  Upstream reservoirs – Provide flow support to maintain necessary surface water during drought or low flow events   •  Groundwater – When significant surface waterways are not available or not""
""able to support withdrawal  •  Municipalities – For sites that have smaller water needs and sites that require supplemental water resources To further mitigate water-related risk, Evergy employees also engage with local and regional stakeholders. Evergy  maintains membership in multiple Water Assurance Districts (WAD) in the state of Kansas. These organizations  maintain ownership of surface water reservoir space and control water supplies necessary to operate member  company facilities during""
""drought or low flow events. As these reservoirs supply critical water for operations during  drought, Evergy is also active in state efforts to maintain and enhance the resource. Reservoir sedimentation and loss  of capacity is a concern to the WAD and its member companies. In Kansas, the legislature is working to establish  control and funding of efforts to reduce the sedimentation and potentially regain lost capacity. Evergy is working with  partners to improve sustainability of the reservoirs""
""and long-term access to needed water supplies. Since 2018, Evergy facilities have decreased water consumption by 34 percent and non-consumptive water use by 26  percent. This was accomplished through the addition of renewable generation and flexible fleet operations while retiring  coal-generation facilities, our most water intensive generation. We continue to focus on improving our recycling and  conservation efforts to further decrease our reliance on water resources. As we continue to invest""
""in renewable resources  and less water intensive natural gas generation, we expect our reliance on water resources to continue to decrease. Effluent and Stormwater Management In addition to monitoring the amount of water we utilize, we focus on the quality of water we return to the environment.  Our effluent management program, which covers all Evergy assets that return process water into the environment, is  done in accordance with state and federal requirements under the National Pollutant""
""Discharge Elimination System  (NPDES). Through this program, Evergy has 13 sites that have site specific water permits with water sampling  and testing requirements. Additionally, Evergy's Environmental team has staff dedicated to reviewing the water data  and providing feedback to Evergy’s generation facilities to manage the quality of water discharged back into the  environment. Through the NPDES program, more than 2,200 water samples are collected from Evergy’s water discharge points in  a""
""typical year, and more than 4,500 analyses are run on those water samples. Analyses are site specific but include  oil and grease, heavy metals, nutrients, plus many more pollutants. Evergy utilizes accredited laboratories to run all  external samples and certifies our internal field labs through state and federal programs.  1  https://www.nwd.usace.army.mil/Media/News-Releases/Article/3261192/dry-conditions-expected-to-persist-for-the- missouri-river-""
""basin/#:~:text=For%20the%202022%20calendar%20year,125%20years%20of%20record%2Dkeeping. Environmental |   25 In addition to Evergy’s NPDES program, Evergy has stormwater programs at industrial facilities and at construction  locations to help minimize soil erosion, capture lost soil and sediment, and prevent pollutants from being carried into  waters of the state through rainwater runoff. Evergy withdraws billions of gallons of water each year.  However, 95 percent of that water is returned to""
""the  environment for downstream use. To reduce withdrawals,  Evergy continues to consider ways to decrease water  use through improved water recycling at generation sites.  For generation facilities such as LaCygne and Wolf Creek,  all water is returned to their source lakes for reuse. In  partnership with Kansas Wildlife and Parks and the Missouri  Department of Conservation, we are proud to provide access  to our lakes for recreational and educational purposes. Environmental |  Evergy""
""understands the value that these shared resources provide to our communities. These reservoirs provide  public access to approximately 11,025 acres of water resources for tourism and recreation while providing food  and shelter for a variety of wildlife species. To learn more about visiting Evergy’s lakes, visit: Jeffrey Energy Center ksoutdoors.com/KDWP-Info/Locations/ Wildlife-Areas/Northeast/Jeffrey-Energy-Center LaCygne Generating Station ksoutdoors.com/Fishing/Where-to-Fish-in-""
""Kansas/Fishing- Locations-Public-Waters/Southeast-Region/La-Cygne-Reservoir Wolf Creek Nuclear Generating Station ksoutdoors.com/Fishing/Where-to-Fish-in-Kansas/Fishing- Locations-Public-Waters/Southeast-Region/Coffey-County-Lake Montrose Generating Station (retired) mdc.mo.gov/discover-nature/places/ montrose-conservation-area  26     Waste and Toxicity Waste Management Overview   Evergy is dedicated to the responsible management of industrial waste generated from company operations as""
""documented in Evergy’s Waste Policy. In keeping with our vision to be good stewards of our resources, Evergy  establishes and introduces waste management practices that lead to the overall reduction of hazardous, solid, and  universal waste. Common waste streams generated by Evergy include coal-combustion residuals (CCR), used oil,  municipal waste, scrap metal, and wooden utility poles. Hazardous Waste Management Evergy’s hazardous waste program has been designed to properly manage and dispose""
""of hazardous waste in  accordance with the appropriate state and federal regulations. This includes efforts to minimize generation of waste,  when possible, and to properly track and manage all hazardous waste generated at Evergy facilities from “cradle to  grave.” Specific efforts employed to ensure the proper management of hazardous waste include the following: •  Creation and distribution of the Evergy Waste Compliance Manual, outlining the regulatory handling, storage, and  disposal""
""requirements and waste best handling practices. •  Creation and distribution of Evergy hazardous waste work practices, detailing specific management requirements  for common wastes. •  Company-wide hazardous waste awareness training for all employees, detailing proper handling and management  of hazardous waste. •  Additional hazardous waste management training for all employee groups that have an active role in the  management of hazardous waste. •  Cataloging of all hazardous and non-""
""hazardous waste determinations within a company-wide, centralized database  to assist with proper waste management and handling and to comply with RCRA regulatory requirements. •  Coordination of appropriate waste analysis, including testing as needed, to verify waste characteristics and proper  management efforts. All waste analyses are recorded in Evergy’s Waste Determination Database. •  Implementation of the Hazardous Waste inspection program. This includes documentation of site""
""conditions,  identification and resolution of any noted regulatory deficiencies, and monthly tracking of hazardous waste  generation and storage at all Evergy Generating Sites. •  Retention of hazardous waste disposal records for a minimum of five years. •  Completion of enivronmental-focused site audits as a part of the Evergy Environmental Assessment program, which  includes a review of both hazardous and non-hazardous waste practices and documentation resulting in continuous  improvement by""
""identification and completion of corrective actions. Environmental |  Solid Non-Hazardous Waste Management   Evergy uses several protocols when managing solid  waste generated by our work and at our facilities.  Our goal is to reduce solid waste disposal, so, when  possible, we share resources between Evergy-owned  locations. When we need to dispose of material, solid  waste is identified and categorized to determine the  steps for proper disposal.  27 Non-Hazardous Generation and Facility Waste""
""Evergy uses dedicated Environmental Compliance Coordinators, among other resources, to conduct routine audits,  surveillance, and inspection of solid waste stream storage and disposal locations. They also track tonnage of  universal waste generated at all Evergy-owned locations. Disposal of solid waste is completed by partnering with  approved waste vendors and obtaining regulatory and landfill approval when recycling is not an option. Environmental |  While operating coal-fired generation""
""plants, Evergy produces coal combustion residuals (CCR), including fly ash,  gypsum, and bottom ash/slag. Evergy strives to recycle CCRs as useful product whenever feasible and protective of  human health and the environment. If disposal is necessary, Evergy manages CCRs in disposal units regulated by  both state and federal law. In 2024, Evergy, along with our partners, was able to beneficially use more than 282,500  tons of CCR in the production of materials such as cement and roofing tiles.""
""Overall, 37 percent of all CCR Evergy  generated was repurposed in the beneficial use market. Evergy maintains and complies with written operating  procedures when disposing of CCR at company owned disposal sites. All locations have operating plans approved  by the relevant state regulatory agencies. In addition, Evergy has developed site specific fugitive dust control plans  to control and minimize dust whenever possible. Sites are routinely inspected for compliance with the plans and the""
""plans are audited and, if needed, updated annually. Each location has published these plans, as well as a method  for public outreach on the Evergy CCR public website. CCR that cannot be repurposed for beneficial  use must be disposed of in disposal units. Evergy operates CCR disposal units at many of our energy centers. As part of CCR  disposal operations, Evergy must consider  potential environmental impacts to land,  water, and air resources.  Both surface water  run-on to the operations area""
""and run-off into  water bodies is considered and controlled  with operational planning.  As we close CCR impoundments, we perform detailed analysis of groundwater to determine if remediation is required.  If the need to remediate exists, Evergy completes assessments of possible corrective actions and initiates public  stakeholder engagement to involve the community in decisions around remediation efforts. The current Evergy CCR  units identified to require remediation are the former CCR surface""
""impoundments at Lawrence Energy Center, the now  closed Sibley Generating Station, and Tecumseh Energy Center. These impoundments have been completely cleared  of all CCR and restored to natural conditions. While the CCR is gone, Evergy identified the need to remediate certain  groundwater constituents.  28 Environmental |  In January 2025, two lawsuits, including one seeking class certification, were filed in the Circuit Court of Henry County,  Missouri against Evergy Metro and two other""
""defendants alleging unspecified damages resulting from the defendants'  alleged unlawful and negligent spreading of CCRs associated with the Montrose Station coal ash landfill. Montrose  Station was a coal-fired generating facility which was operated by Evergy Metro until its closure in 2018. The cases are at  preliminary stages and Evergy and Evergy Metro are unable to assess the outcome or reasonably estimate any possible  damages with respect to the claims. However, Evergy and Evergy Metro""
""believe the claims are without merit and intend  to vigorously defend themselves.     Natural Resources/Conservation/Biodiversity Biodiversity and Conservation Evergy’s service area has some of the most diverse biodiversity in the United States. The biodiversity of the area  includes mixed and tall grass prairies, in addition to deciduous forests and mountain glades. Native grasslands are  one of the most impacted and least protected habitats in the world. Of the less than five percent of""
""tallgrass prairie  that remains in the world, most are found in the Flint Hills Region of Kansas. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT We hosted two open houses in 2024, one for Lawrence  Energy Center in Kansas (March), and one for the now closed  Sibley Generating Station in Missouri (November), to inform  interested members of the community about the sites, CCR  practices, groundwater conditions, and the options to remediate  groundwater. Representatives from state government, local city  utilities, and""
""concerned citizens were invited to attend the open- house meeting and were provided multiple methods to provide  formal feedback. Evergy will consider the received feedback when  determining the next steps forward to remediate the groundwater  at the site.  29 Evergy has been participating as a member of the Rights-of-Way as Habitat Working Group since 2018. This  group represents more than 200 organizations from across private industry, government agencies, non-profit  organizations, and""
""academia in the United States and Canada with a purpose to collaborate and identify best  management practices for habitat conservation on working landscapes, specifically our power line rights-of-way. With the construction of new solar energy generating facilities, Evergy has had the opportunity to revegetate  these sites with native grasses and forbs, providing not only critical nectar resources for many pollinators, but  also offering additional land use benefits. Native grasses and""
""wildflowers typically have much deeper and more  elaborate root systems compared to non-native, lawn-type grasses. This increase in underground biomass has  greater potential to capture carbon and reduce stormwater runoff. Below is a table of previously vegetated sites, as  well as sites planned for future revegetation. Environmental |  Wildlife Protection Native and protected wildlife is also a priority in and around Evergy’s facilities and sites. There are 21 species on the  Federal threatened""
""and endangered species list in Kansas and 41 species in Missouri. Preventing negative impact to  these species’ natural habitat is a priority when evaluating projects and work done by Evergy. To support these efforts,  Evergy has a dedicated Environmental Services team with subject matter experts in wildlife, native species, and  cultural resources. Evergy has a long history of avian protection efforts throughout Kansas and Missouri. Approximately 500 species of  birds can be found nesting or""
""power poles  that intersect with areas of higher bald eagle use for further investigation  to understand if an electrocution hazard exists. This will allow us to further  consider the pole design and need for future retrofits and rebuilds to help  ensure safe perching conditions for birds the size of eagles and smaller. Evergy was also an early supporter of the monarch butterfly Candidate Conservation Agreement with Assurances  (CCAA). This CCAA is a formal agreement between the U.S. Fish and""
""Plains, MO 51 acres Planted in 2021 Paragould, AR 10 acres Planted in 2021 Hawthorn  Generating Station 63 acres Planted in 2022 Osawatomie, KS  28 acres Planted in 2023 Stull Solar  16 acres Planted in 2023 Osage City, KS  6 acres Planted in 2023  30 Environmental |  Protecting our Natural Resources  Nature Center Restoration - Evergy makes  substantial investments  in wetlands and restoring water bodies, both financially and with in- kind support from Evergy’s Green Team. These investments""
""helped  create, provide public access, and enhance these important areas for  our service area. For example, during 2024, Evergy collaborated with  Hutchinson Recreation and the City of Hutchinson to restore and fill  the upper pond at Dillion Nature Center, a public recreation area in  Hutchinson, Kansas. Dillon Nature Center is a neighbor to Evergy’s  Hutchinson Energy Center. The project included pond dredging where  the material was transported to the energy center for beneficial reuse  and""
""the use of Evergy’s water rights to pump the necessary water to  transfer to the Dillion Nature Center.    Based on our 2024 vegetation sampling  efforts, we estimate that Evergy maintains  more than 2.5 million stems of milkweed  across our service area. Milkweed is a  critical host plant for the declining monarch  butterfly. In addition to milkweed, results  indicate that abundant nectar resources  are also available with almost 17 percent of  the total acreage that we manage providing""
""suitable habitat for native wildflowers. Habitat Protection and Restoration - Evergy’s Green Team focused on three areas  of habitat restoration: invasive species removal, wildlife habitat enhancement, and  educational habitat improvements. Evergy’s Green Team and Environmental Services  team collaborated to build several artificial nests to support the populations growth  of native bee species. Native bees are North America’s most important group of  pollinators. Thirty percent of North""
""America’s 4,000 different native bee species nest  in small tunnels such as hollow plant stems, abandoned borer-beetle holes and similar  locations. With that in mind, Evergy’s Green Team began construction of nesting  boxes made from recycled power poles. The boxes include small tunnels that mimic  a traditional bee habitat.  We are deeply grateful  for the generosity of all  donors and the partnership  with Evergy, along with  the support of the City of  Hutchinson, which ensured  the success""
""of this project. Tony Finlay, Executive Director of  Hutchinson Recreation Evergy volunteers carefully tag Monarch butterflies.  To learn more about tagging visit monarchwatch.org/tagging/  31     Risks and Opportunities Adaptation and Resiliency Evergy seeks to manage the impact of climate-related risks on our business and our ability to provide electricity safely  and reliably to customers. Severe weather, including tornadoes, high winds, snow, fire, rain, flooding, drought, extreme""
""temperatures, and ice storms can be destructive and cause outages and property damage that impairs our ability to  provide dependable electricity to our customers. In 2024, Evergy continued to participate in the Electric Power Research  Institute’s Climate Resilience and Adaptation Initiative (ClimateREADi), which is focused on developing a comprehensive  framework to inform infrastructure investment and deployment to help ensure a resilient power system. Event Response During 2024, Evergy’s""
""service area experienced widespread  extreme cold temperatures. The artic air lasted for several days  with windchills ranging from -20 to -30 degrees for multiple days.  As the cold temperatures moved in, Evergy began cold weather  operation processes for generation and distribution facilities.  During this event, Evergy was able to maintain the generation  fleet and no conservation measures (including controlled  outages) were needed. Additionally, in early 2025, Evergy’s service area""
""experienced record-breaking extreme cold weather during February.  The cold weather was a multi-day event with wind chills reaching double digit negative temperatures. During the event,  Evergy stayed in close communication with the Southwest Power Pool but did not experience widespread outages  related to the record-breaking event.  Related to Evergy’s response efforts from a  July 2023 storm that brought hurricane level  wind and torrential rain,  Evergy received an  Edison Electric Institute""
""(EEI) Emergency  Storm Recovery Award. The Evergy team  rallied for nearly a week to restore power  to 295,000 customers impacted by the  storm. The EEI Emergency Response Award  recognizes companies that faced difficult  circumstances caused by extraordinary  events and that put forth an outstanding  effort to restore service to the public. Over the course of the storm, 30 miles of distribution lines were replaced, 800  feeders were affected (29 percent of the distribution system), nearly 500""
""poles were damaged, 147,000 calls were  made to our contact centers, and 152,000-man hours were worked from Evergy personnel.  While Evergy proactively performs vegetation management and system upgrades, we are also prepared for outages  related to unpredictable extreme weather. Evergy partners with neighboring utilities to share resources for large-scale  outages and has support staff trained to assist in these extreme events. We learn from these events and continue to improve our ability to""
""operate effectively, while also developing preventative measures in preparation for extreme  weather. Evergy continues to progress in understanding climate vulnerabilities of our assets and mitigation opportunities. In  response to the uptick in wildfires, Evergy created a Wildfire Mitigation Senior Manager position that reports directly  to the Vice President of Transmission. Additional information surrounding Evergy’s wildfire related work, including  legislation and mitigation efforts can be""
""found in the wildfire section of this report.   32 While we have to recognize that not all extreme events can be completely mitigated, understanding the potential  hazards and preparing for them are important. As part of Evergy’s ongoing risk and opportunity evaluation related to climate-risks, Evergy continues to follow the  Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), a framework that includes recommendations about how  companies can disclose the extent to which climate is""
""addressed in governance, strategy, and risk management. Since 2020, Evergy has focused on integrating climate-related risks into our existing Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process.  Wildfire Mitigation The electric utility industry has recently experienced numerous wildfire related risks.  To better understand the risk of wildfires in our service area, Evergy completed a  fire risk analysis, which evaluated fire history, vegetation encroachment, fire climate,  outage data and infrastructure""
""age. The analysis showed that our risk is low. The  Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA)National Wildfire Risk Index  represents a community's relative fire risk compared to the rest of the United States.  FEMA categorized our service area as very low or relatively low, with five counties  in the relatively moderate range.  Although our risk is low, Evergy is taking steps to mitigate wildfires, including risk  monitoring, grid hardening, and operations and emergency response. These""
""strategies  increase reliability for customers, enhance resiliency of the power grid, and ultimately,  mitigate risk for our communities.  During the 2025 session, the Kansas Legislature passed new legislation to address utility liability and mitigation for  wildfires. This law establishes parameters around liability for economic and non-economic damages. It also requires  the Kansas Corporation Commission (KCC) to hold a workshop where stakeholders, including KCC Staff, the Citizens’  Utility""
""Ratepayer Board (CURB) and other interested parties, can assess and discuss wildfire risk and potential  mitigation steps. Coordination of Evergy’s assessment and response is led by our Senior Manager of Wildfire Mitigation. Our mitigation  strategies include: •  Fostering strong relationships with local fire departments – We have seven F500 extinguishing foam trailers at  our facilities that we lend to our communities when needed. We also helped a fire department purchase a trailer for""
""themselves. •  Participating in local burn associations – The prescribed burn process that many ranchers and farmers undergo  also helps mitigate risk, in addition to being good for the environment and agriculture. We teach those how to safely  complete the controlled burns around electrical equipment. •  Deploying smart devices on the grid – This technology makes the power system more resilient and easier for us to  manage the flow of energy in an emergency.  •  Taking a systemic and planned""
""approach to upgrades – We track the age of infrastructure and routinely inspect  poles so we can replace equipment before it fails. •  Trimming vegetation away from power lines – Transmission teams are required to visually inspect lines 200 kV and  above, although they generally inspect all lines on a yearly basis. Distribution trims every four to six years, depending  on vegetation type and growth rates.  If there is an electrical emergency, customers should call 911 and Evergy at 800-383-1183""
""(Kansas Central) or  888-471-5275 (Evergy Metro and Missouri West). Environmental |   33 Environmental Management Environmental Compliance Assessment Program (ECAP) Through our internal ECAP, Evergy analyzes compliance with environmental laws and regulations and corrects areas  of non-compliance. Assessments are included across all types of operational assets on a set rotation based on  environmental risk.  The ECAP is administered by the Environmental Services Department and includes, but is""
""not  limited to, the following activities: •  Annual review of environmental procedures. •  Periodic site visits of each Evergy facility that includes industry subject matter experts in areas of air, water, and  waste requirements. •  Periodic review of required reporting to the respective environmental agencies. •  Periodic review of the vendors used by Evergy’s Environmental Services team. •  Environmental audit review with facility management and/or procurement. •  Coordination with""
""proper environmental agencies, as necessary. •  Environmental audit report and associated corrective actions identified on the site visit to encourage continuous  improvement of Evergy’s environmental practices. Evergy uses an Environmental Management System (EMS) to monitor compliance and drive execution of identified  aspects of our operations. Key performance indicators are established for operational groups and checked routinely  to minimize impacts on the environment. Environmental""
""Management System (EMS) Evergy’s EMS consists of the following components: •  Policy    •  Evergy’s Environmental Policy can be found here: Evergy Environmental Policy    •  Evergy’s Water Policy can be found here: Evergy Water Policy    •  Evergy’s Waste Policy can be found here: Evergy Waste Policy •  Identification and Prioritization of Environmental Impacts    •  Regulation review and project specific compliance evaluations •  Development of Goals and Targets    •  Performance""
""metrics   •  Assignment of Responsibilities    •  Management information systems •  Documentation of Key Procedures    •  Operational procedures    •  Automated compliance task assignment and completion records •  Evaluation of Performance •  Training    •  Annual training on environmental compliance with all impacted employees Environmental Services periodically self-assesses environmental compliance at company and vendor facilities, as  appropriate, to ensure compliance.  Environmental""
""|   34     Affordability and Assistance Supporting Vulnerable Customers In 2024, Evergy’s Corporate Social Impact program made stronger shifts in community investments and customer  support to address energy burden, bill payment support, and energy efficiency education and program participation.  In 2024, our teams: •  Helped 36,000 customers at both Connects, with face-to-face service to secure resources needed for bill  payment assistance, energy savings, and more. •  Conducted or""
""participated in over 270 events assisting 33,000 customers with payment support and sharing of  energy efficiency opportunities, customer and energy efficiency programs. •  Provided 23,000 income-eligible customers, with energy efficiency tools. •  Helped customers secure just under $29M in bill payment assistance funds.  Additionally, in Evergy’s Kansas service area, we put in place several new customer support and energy efficiency  programs to assist income-eligible customers:  •  Evergy""
""Cares Fund to provide gap bill assistance to our customers when normal state resources are not available.  •  Income-eligible multi-family program approved through Kansas Energy Efficiency Investment Act (KEEIA). •  KEEIA energy savings kits.  •  KEEIA energy assessments with free direct installation of energy efficiency items and supporting weatherization  assistance programs. Social Social |   35 Energy Assistance for Customers Evergy offers many income-eligible programs that are designed""
""to reduce electric usage and provide bill assistance at  a resident’s home. These include: •  Weatherization and Weatherization Ready – Evergy's program’s support the Department of Energy's (DOE) Low- income Weatherization Assistance Program to deliver weatherization measures free of charge to qualified homes  and customers. To further assist customers whose homes are disqualified from participation due to structural  problems or unsafe health conditions, Evergy provides support to benefit""
""customers who have been deferred to  participate in the Weatherization program. By fixing these issues, customers are then eligible to participate in the  Weatherization Ready Program and enjoy energy efficiency upgrades. •  Income-Eligible Multi-Family – Free in-unit upgrades like lighting, faucet aerators, smart power strips directly  installed by Evergy to help improve efficiency for tenants, as well as holistic rebates to building owners for investing  in upgrades for both in-unit and""
""common areas, such as public area lighting, building heating, ventilation and air  conditioning (HVAC), and insulation. •  Community Energy Savings Kits – Energy efficient items provided in a kit to customers that are income-eligible. The  kits are distributed through Evergy’s Wichita Connect location, community events, and local food services/pantries. •  Energy Assessment and Free Direct Install – In-home energy assessments are provided by an Evergy energy  professional along with the""
""installation of free energy saving items. During these visits, customers receive valuable  do-it-yourself (DIY) tips about how they can do little things in their homes to become more energy efficient and  are provided with a comprehensive report of the findings and recommendations for best next steps and available  programs to support further energy efficiency upgrades. •  Low-Income Leadership Assistance Collaborative (LILAC) – Started in 2020 with a group of Kansas City area  companies and""
""agencies to exchange ideas about how to best serve the low-income customers in our footprint with  the variety of programs focused on energy, health, and safety. •  Low-Income Leadership in Essential Services (LILIES) – With the newly launched Kansas Energy Efficiency  Investment Act (KEEIA) programs, there is an opportunity for collaborative partnerships to support energy efficiency  and comprehensive customer support for Kansas, similarly to what we have in place for the Kansas City area""
""qualifies. •  Customer Outreach Teams and Evergy Connect Teams – participated in and coordinated more than 270 events  to meet with customers throughout our area to link them to energy payment and savings assistance. Additionally,  Evergy's two walk-in facilities in Wichita, KS and Kansas City, MO provide face-to-face customer service allowing  for customized solutions to energy payments and usage. These teams helped nearly 69,000 customers secure just  under $29 million in bill assistance""
""fits their lives. To provide face-to-face assistance to customers in need, Evergy  opened Connect in Kansas City in 2018 and expanded Connect to  Wichita in 2022. Since both openings, Evergy’s Connect facilities have  helped more than 130,000 customers with direct and customized  service. These teams have helped customers avoid disconnections and  enroll in energy efficiency, payment assistance, and medical programs.  In addition to face-to-face service, the team conducts virtual face-to- face""
""our digital-friendly customers. For those customers who prefer to connect with us through our contact centers and online through evergy.com, we  have taken steps to become more efficient and effective in answering questions and solving problems. By offering  more self-service solutions and notification options for customers, we can more effectively help those customers who  need personal interaction. Evergy also provides residential customers the opportunity to download their energy information""
""in the Green Button  format. The Green Button initiative is an industry-led effort to provide utility customers with easy and secure access  to their energy usage information in a consumer-friendly and computer-friendly format for electricity, natural gas, and  water usage.  37 Program Details Kansas City Building  Energy Exchange (BE-Ex) Established in early 2021 as the first major initiative of Kansas City’s  Regional Climate Action Plan, the BE-Ex brings world class resources,  direct""
""assistance, and tangible value to the current and future owners and  occupants of Kansas City buildings. This program aims to provide direct  support and financing services to building owners, policy makers, property  managers, architects, engineers, and others in the Kansas City metropolitan region to promote a high performance-built environment and help the Kansas  City region meet ambitious climate goals, create jobs, accelerate innovation,  and grow its economy. Evergy provides grants to""
""support this program and  Climate Action KC is actively engaged with an Evergy employee sitting on the  of Board Climate Action KC. Tree Initiatives Evergy partnered with Bridging the Gap and the Arbor Day Foundation to  distribute young trees and information about how to plant them to provide  energy savings. Additionally, Evergy’s Green Team partners with these  organizations to provide and plant young trees and native vegetation in  communities throughout our service area. Energy Efficiency""
""Community Programs In addition to the investments above, community planning and collaboration are important to enable Evergy and our  business partners to successfully navigate the transition of our generation facilities and empower our partners to meet  their own sustainability goals. Evergy participates in several initiatives that focus on community impact. These include: Building Benchmarking  Evergy is supporting the Kansas City, MO benchmarking ordinance by  providing building owners with""
""multiple tenants the ability to aggregate  information and gain an Energy Star score as the first step to identifying  energy savings opportunities for large buildings. Social |  Urban Heat Island Mitigation  (UHI) Program In previous years, Evergy began working with MidAmerican Regional Council  (MARC) to understand how its MEEIA programs could aid in mitigation of  urban heat island (UHI) effects. Evergy continues to partner with MARC,  the City of Kansas City, Missouri Office of Environmental""
""Quality, University  of Missouri-Kansas City, and Kansas University to perform tree plantings  to mitigate the local urban heat island effect. In 2024 there were 700 trees  planted. This effort will continue into 2025 with an additional partner, local  nonprofit, Jerusalem Farms, to assist in 1,000 more trees being planted.  Evergy will also begin work to identify customers that would benefit from  cool roof installations and reflective painting and start implementing these  upgrades. This""
""program has a positive environmental impact including  pollution absorption, energy savings, and stormwater filtration in the  downtown KC area.  38 Program Details Federal funding support  Through awareness, education, and grant application-supported activities, Evergy  is helping customers connect with federal funding provided by the Infrastructure  Investment and Jobs Act (H.R. 3684) and Inflation Reduction Act (H.R. 5376). Electrification Working together in a customer-focused clean-energy""
""transition, we can collectively reach our clean energy goals.  The programs below are focused on helping customers reduce their carbon footprint by electrifying equipment and  vehicles, with a focus on minimizing grid impact.   In 2024, Evergy sought an order from the Kansas Corporation Commission (KCC) to implement its second phase of its  Transportation Electrification portfolio. The second phase is comprised of two programs:  a Fleet Advisory Services  Program and a Residential Managed""
""Charging Pilot.  The Fleet Advisory Services Program will provide technical  assistance to fleets and shape their charging plans for many years ahead. The Residential Managed Charging Pilot  will test two promising methods for residential managed charging to reveal how each can be used to provide cost  effective load shaping and will incentivize residential customers to charge their electric vehicles (EV) at home during  off-peak periods. The goal of the pilot is to gather information about""
""customer preferences related to managed  charging and to quantify the load-shaping impacts of different approaches on different customer groups. In early  2025, Evergy reached a settlement agreement with parties, which reflects in large part Evergy’s initial filing. Evergy  received approval of the agreement in March 2025 by the KCC for implementation of the programs. Customer’s Fleet Electrification Because Evergy values giving back to the community through partnerships that improve the quality""
""of life for those we  serve, Evergy places emphasis on partnering with area fleets to replace traditional fleet vehicles powered by non-renewable  fuels with zero-emission electric vehicles and the installation of electric vehicle charging solutions. Fleet electrification  is becoming one of the top choices by companies that want to reduce carbon. Through 2024, Evergy has over 50  organizations in our service area with electric fleet vehicles in service including  public transit agencies,""
""municipalities,   school districts, and private businesses. Evergy is committed to providing the following support for fleets: •  EV charging infrastructure rebates. •  EV charging rates for business customers. •  Grant support. •  In-kind support and expertise to address technical issues and facilitate cost-effective, efficient use of energy. Evergy expanded our education and outreach to support all public and private fleet customers with their EV  transition through quarterly webinars, in-""
""person events and personalized consultations. Additionally, Evergy engaged  car dealerships and auto dealer associations in providing support and access to utility rebates and electric rate  information. This enables dealerships to sell zero-emission vehicles in our region, and help buyers take advantage of  incentives for electric vehicles at the point of sale. Transit and school bus  partnerships Evergy provides grant support and technical review to local school districts  and transit""
""authorities as they take initial steps toward electrifying their     bus fleets. Evergy has worked with a broad range of customers, including  relatively rural school districts such as Caney Valley, KS and the transit authorities in Wichita, Lawrence and Topeka in Kansas and Kansas City, MO. School bus V2G pilot  project Evergy is part of a consortium including twelve utilities that was recently  awarded federal funds to conduct a school bus vehicle-to-grid pilot project. Social |   39 Energy""
""Efficiency Program Impacts Enabled through the Missouri Energy Efficiency Investment Act (MEEIA), Evergy offers a portfolio of programs to provide  Missouri customers (residential and business) with opportunities to invest in energy efficiency to drive long-term energy  savings with a faster payback on the customer’s investment. Evergy also incentivizes customers to help manage our  peak system demand with business demand response programs and residential thermostat incentives. Since 2013,""
""Evergy has impacted more than 400,000 customers in Missouri through the MEEIA programs. Program Details Transportation  electrification filings in  Missouri and Kansas Evergy continues to offer its Missouri and Kansas residential and business  customers rebates to defer costs related to purchasing an EV or electrifying  their fleets. The program includes a budget focused on educating customers  about the benefits of off-peak charging and owning/operating an EV. Other  aspects include: •""
""Residential rebate program for installing a 240V outlet for EV charging. •  Business rebate program for installing charging stations. •  Clean Charge Network expansion in Kansas to underserved areas. •  Transit and commercial time-of-use tariffs, ensuring that electric vehicles are  powered by renewable energy sources. These rate options are supported by  Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) in Kansas. •  Evergy is a supporter and member of Plug-in KC (PIKC), a non-profit initiative of  Climate""
""Action KC.  PIKC’s goal is to accelerate the scale up electric vehicles  and associated infrastructure in the greater Kansas City area. Charging station network The Evergy Clean Charge Network consists of more than 1,000 electric vehicle  charging stations throughout the Kansas City region – One of the largest of any  utility in the United States. Personal gas-powered vehicles account for around  one-fifth of U.S. emissions, while electric vehicles help attain Environmental  Protection Agency""
""(EPA) regional ozone standards and make our cities cleaner,  better places to live and work.  40 Social |  Evergy completed its third cycle of its MEEIA programs at the end of 2024 and the Missouri Public Service Commission  (MPSC) approved a fourth cycle beginning on January 1, 2025. The Cycle 4 approval included a two year approval of  energy efficiency programs for residential, business, and income-eligible customers and a three year approval of demand  response programs. The portfolio""
""includes an on-bill financing program (Pay as You Save®), launched in 2021, to help  Missouri customers who might not otherwise invest in energy efficiency (HVAC, insulation, duct sealing, etc.) to pay  down the investment with the savings from the energy savings measures. In 2024 in Missouri, Evergy provided:  •  Weatherization services to 265 income-eligible homes, and installed energy efficiency measures such as LED lighting,  efficient flow showerheads, faucet aerators, smart power strips,""
""smart thermostats, and weatherization measures in  2,133 income-eligible multi-family tenant units.  •  Evergy served 595 single-family home customers with an energy assessment and direct install of energy efficiency  measures, like those noted above for the income-eligible multi-family units.  •  Evergy also provided Weatherization Ready (home repair services) to 11 homes so they can proceed with energy  efficiency/weatherization assistance services. In early 2024, Evergy launched its four-""
""year energy efficiency and demand response portfolio in Kansas, which provides  programs for Evergy’s residential and business customers. The programs were enabled by Kansas Energy Efficiency  Investment Act (KEEIA). Programs are like those offered to Evergy’s Missouri customers through MEEIA and includes  income-eligible programs for single-family and multi-family homes.  Evergy’s MEEIA programs resulted in more than 1.18 billion kWh of energy  savings since 2013. Through its MEEIA and KEEIA""
""demand response and interruptible programs, Evergy accredited 251MW of summer peak  load reduction for Southwest Power Pool. These programs may also be utilized for winter needs.  41     Community Impact Community Support  Evergy is committed to empowering a better future for our customers and communities. Making a positive impact  in the communities we call home is a foundational component of our business. Our Community Strategy centers on  making innovative community investments in the areas""
""of environmental leadership and community vitality while  also aligning with the needs of our communities and our corporate business strategy.  Our support takes many forms – financial investments, physical goods and services, volunteerism, community  leadership, and connecting agencies to resources. Financial Community Investments Evergy’s community strategy was designed to adjust to the changing needs of our customers and communities while  also engaging our employees in volunteerism and""
""community leadership. In 2024, Evergy invested $7.1 million in the  communities we serve in two key areas, environmental leadership and community vitality. That support was directed  into the following program areas: Community Vitality Evergy is only as healthy as the communities in which we live and work. We invest in opportunities that support our  vulnerable customers, stimulate local economies, encourage workforce readiness, provide access to opportunities for  all ages and backgrounds, and""
""critical startup and small business support  include Generating Income For Tomorrow (GIFT), NXTSTAGE, Create Campaign, Business Network International/ Rainmakers Chapter, Prospect Business Association, LaunchKC, Prospect KC, Keystone Innovation District, and more.    42 Environmental Leadership As an energy provider, Evergy is committed to creating a sustainable energy future and minimizing our environmental  impact. We do this through education, river and wetland enhancements, land preservation""
""and habitat protection,  as well as stewardship and conservation. In addition to financially supporting environmental efforts, Evergy’s Green  Team completed 64 environmental projects in our service area. Of these projects, 23 were completed in vulnerable  communities. These Green Team projects focused on enhancing Missouri and Kansas riverways, lowering urban heat  through tree plantings, and creating and installing important pollinator gardens in the region. They planted more than  1,300 trees""
""and removed 300 tires and 10 tons of trash from local rivers.  Community Spotlight Urban Heat Island Kansas City’s historic Northeast Kansas City community  was identified as an area with a high heat index. As part of  Evergy’s Missouri Energy Efficiency Investment Act (MEEIA)  program, the Company launched an intensive effort to  help mitigate this increasing heat and help area residents  eventually lower their own cooling costs. Trees naturally  create shade to lower the air temperature by""
""minimizing the  reflective surfaces directly impacted by the sun.  Scientific  research shows a direct correlation between areas having  a lesser tree canopy and increased temperature. Evergy’s  Green Team managed the effort and worked with local  city agencies, including the Forestry Department, the City  of Kansas City and the Housing Authority of Kansas City, to find approved, beneficial locations along Kansas City’s  Independence Avenue Corridor and surrounding areas.  This effort resulted""
""in just over 700, 15-gallon trees planted in the  fall of 2024. These trees will be maintained through weekly watering in the growing season for two years. Phase two of  the project will happen in 2025 with an additional 1,000 trees being planted. Social |   43 Since 1989, our volunteer, employee-driven Green Team has  completed thousands of projects restoring hundreds of acres  of wetlands, thousands of acres of prairie and planting more  than 33,000 trees. Partnering  with  agencies,  non-""
""profits,   and  schools,  we protect, preserve, and educate. BENEFIT TO STAKEHOLDERS Evergy’s long history of  environmental conservation  has helped our communities by  supporting conservation projects  and organizations in our service  area and beyond. Additionally,  the protection measures for  both flora and fauna that have  been implemented protect  our environment, benefiting  generations to come. Social |      Community-based Environmental Leadership This year Evergy’s community-based""
""sustainability efforts and Green Team focused on three areas:  1.  Protecting and enhancing our rivers and waterways 2.  Increasing native tree populations  3.  Creating habitats for valuable pollinators Rivers & Waterways. While working in the waterways, we partnered with the experts – Friends of the Kaw, Kansas  Alliance for Wetlands & Streams and Missouri River Relief. Our support is both in contributions of funds and  employee volunteerism. In 2024, Evergy volunteers worked at five different""
""river clean-up activities that saw over 10  tons of trash and 300 tires removed. Native Trees. Trees are a critical component to our ecosystem. They help clean our air, create shade which helps  lower cooling costs, and provide habit for native wildlife. In 2024, Evergy’s Green Team and other volunteers made a  huge impact by increasing the tree population in both Kansas and Missouri by planting more than 1,300 trees.  Pollinator Habitats. Bees are a critical part of the world’s pollination""
""process. They pollinate crops, maintain a  diverse ecosystem by pollinating wild plants, and produce honey. Creating habitats and pollinator gardens for our  region’s bees was another focus for Evergy’s Green Team. Community Engagement As part of the stakeholder engagement process, one of the more common events held multiple times every year  across our service area are transmission, substation, and/or distribution project open houses. These projects  include maintenance, rebuilds, and new""
""construction. The communities in Evergy’s service area continue to grow  and depend on reliable electric service, which means we continue to invest in and upgrade our infrastructure to meet  our customers' current and future needs. Evergy is committed to open, transparent, and frequent communication  surrounding infrastructure changes. Community engagement is a key milestone in our transmission project timeline  overview.  44 Social |  Within the community engagement component, there are""
""reliable electric service provided to the surrounding communities,  completed through a partnership with local stakeholders. It also enables economic growth, allowing communities   45 Social |  Economic Development  As a leading and trusted energy partner, the mission of the Economic Development team is to attract new companies,  keep and expand existing customers, while making strategic partner investments that result in the creation of new  electrical load growth. We strive to increase""
""ranged from manufacturing to data centers across Evergy’s  service area. to attract and keep residents and businesses. This collaborative approach enables Evergy to be more cost-effective  and environmentally responsible, delivering on our goal to provide affordable, reliable, and sustainable service to our  customers. More information about our process to review projects can be found here: Transmission Projects (evergy.com). $209 Million in new  annual revenue to Evergy 437,736 kW  in new""
""Development team  worked 100 projects with the average size load  request of these projects being 212 MW. With these  inquiries, over 155 sites within Evergy’s service area  were analyzed.  Google Expands with a $1 Billion Investment in  Kansas City, Missouri Google announced the expansion of its presence  with a $1 billion investment in a new data center  located at Hunt Midwest Business Center in Kansas  City, Missouri. Google is working with Evergy to  bring 400 megawatts of new carbon-free""
""energy to  the grid as part of the company’s ambitious goal  to run on 24/7 carbon-free energy. Google’s data  centers help power popular digital services — like  Google Cloud, Workspace (which includes Gmail,  Docs, Sheets and more), Search and Maps — for  people and organizations worldwide. Global Leader in Animal Health Announces $130 Million Investment and Expansion of Existing Manufacturing  Facility in Elwood, Kansas Elanco Animal Health Inc., a global leader in animal health, announced""
""customers. This strategy positions us to meet current demands and prepares us  for the future. In addition to working towards rate alignment across our territories in Kansas and Missouri, we are  evolving to introduce new rate options that appeal to new businesses while remaining fair for existing customers  The power grid is shared by all customers, and effective rate design ensures fair pricing for all by recognizing the  benefits large customers bring, such as increased electricity sales that""
""can lower prices for everyone. We have studied our rate offerings, reviewed other utilities' rates, and consulted with large customers to develop  new rate offerings for large customers in our pipeline. In early 2025, we proposed a new Large Load Power Service  (LLPS) rate for 100MW+ customers that builds on our existing Large Power Service tariff and complements options  for service available to large customers today, while adding important protections and accommodations. In addition to their""
""load, large customers may bring benefits that we can leverage, such as an ability to lower  use at peak times or provide some of their own generation. Others may have specific needs, such as corporate  carbon-free or zero-emission goals and may be willing to pay a premium for additional renewable energy. Our large  customer rate structure provides choices that reflect these benefits and requirements. Social |   49 Social |  This delicate balance ensures that we can support growth without""
""compromising the reliability and affordability  of our services. By proactively investing in our grid, we can distribute the costs across a broader base of usage,  keeping rates competitive for all customers. By welcoming these new, large, customers, we not only enhance our financial stability but also help our  communities thrive with a larger tax base that supports essential services and schools, and creates jobs, which in  turn helps us grow our residential load. Supply Chain Sustainability""
""Evergy uses more than 4,800 suppliers to provide the goods and services needed to deliver safe, clean,  reliable, affordable energy to customers. We view our supplier relationships as strategic partnerships in which  close collaboration, transparency, and shared values benefit everyone – not just Evergy and our suppliers, but  communities and the environment. We look to strong strategic supplier relationships to give us an industry edge,  reduce risk, and keep our critical projects moving""
""safe, efficient, reliable, and customer-centric provider of energy, while meeting the highest  standards of integrity and ethical conduct. By following our values and working with suppliers who have the same  values we will become the best energy company. Purchases from businesses in our communities support economic activity at these suppliers and create a ripple  effect of purchases throughout their supply chain. Employees who hold these jobs earn incomes that help support  their families and""
""development, as well as creating an  inclusive forum for industry peers and partners to learn responsible sourcing best practices. Evergy’s Procurement Process Supplier Code of Conduct Our suppliers are our partners in delivering affordable, reliable, and sustainable energy. We also encourage and expect  them to collaborate with us in our plans for a more sustainable energy future. Our Code of Conduct outline these  expectations and how they connect with Evergy’s mission, vision, and values.""
""Supply Chain Sustainability Steering Committee & Framework Evergy has developed a Sustainability Steering Committee consisting of a diverse cross-section of employees and  business units, to promote continued growth in Evergy’s Supplier Engagement Program and build on our Supply  Chain Sustainability Framework. This Framework has been built in conjunction with the Sustainable Supply Chain  Alliance (SSCA), a group of electric utilities and suppliers who are working to lead the industry in""
""enhancing and  promoting supply chain sustainable practices across utilities and suppliers. The SSCA activities aim to improve the  sustainability of the products and services utilities buy and use, as well as the performance of suppliers and supply  chain operations. Evergy continues to work toward this goal by: •  Partnering with stakeholders and value chain partners to identify, promote, and adopt successful sustainability  practices. •  Fostering the availability of and demand for more""
""sustainable solutions. •  Delivering tangible business value to the industry through the application of sustainability practices. “Evergy’s business is managed in an environmentally responsible manner and in compliance with all  environmental requirements. Evergy is committed to sound practices that maintain public health, wildlife  habitats, and preserve the integrity of the planet. Evergy expects Suppliers to participate and contribute to  efforts that recognize and promote sound""
""environmental stewardship, continually seek to understand and  address concerns about the environment, and strive to improve, protect, and conserve beyond the requirements  of the law.” Evergy’s Supplier Code of Conduct  51 Supplier Engagement Survey Evergy is a member of the Sustainable Supply Chain Alliance, a collective of utilities and supplier affiliates  dedicated to fostering an environmentally conscious supply chain. The Alliance focuses on sharing best practices  and developing""
""sustainable business solutions to disclose sustainability information, which includes emissions,  water and other sustainability-related topics. One of its major initiatives is The Sustainability Project (TSP), an  online assessment tool that evaluates the environmental sustainability performance of our suppliers.  We actively  encourage our top-tier suppliers to utilize this resource for an annual assessment to indicate actions they are  willing to take to improve in these areas. From""
""level of leadership engagement and commitment. It also offers benchmarking that enables suppliers to plan  for improved performance in the future and can be used for sharing best practices. Evergy is using the results of  the survey to help us further identify sustainability risks associated with our current suppliers and potential future  business partners. In addition to engaging suppliers on sustainability issues, Evergy is also now scoring sustainability elements in its  procurement bidding""
""process, with questions relating to emissions to water usage. Supply Chain Risk Management Evergy’s supply chain risk management strategies are a critical part of ensuring the resiliency and reliability of our  service. Our aim is to give our business the tools to effectively manage the very complex network that makes up  a utility supply chain. Risk management in the supply chain gives us the ability to recognize bottlenecks and other  vulnerabilities, implement processes to reduce risk, and""
""services such as ISN, Experian, and Resilinc to monitor all active suppliers for  violations of federal safety standards, criminal proceedings, regional geopolitical and disaster events, assess  suppliers’ financial health, safety, and subcontracting plan. Evergy suppliers must also meet all Federal mandates  like NERC CIP-013 or Buy America.  •  Key risk assessments: We look at categories such as commodity price risk, business continuity, sustainability  and governance processes, and create""
""our sourcing strategies to minimize potential supply disruptions due  to natural disasters or geopolitical risks. Our top-tier suppliers are assigned a resiliency score based on these  factors. •  Global risk: While the majority of our spend is with American suppliers, we also do significant business with  U.S.- based foreign suppliers and a small percentage of our purchases directly with foreign suppliers. Our Foreign  Corrupt Practices Act and Anti-Corruption Policy helps ensure compliance by""
""Whether it is a solar farm,  environmental work, a transmission line re-build or a community improvement project, we strive to identify and engage  with those stakeholders throughout the different stages of any work we do. Successful stakeholder engagement results in multiple benefits. •  Unknowns and potential problems are identified and mitigated more efficiently. •  Transparency and communication promote trust and collaboration among the parties. •  Projects are more likely to be completed""
""Examples Areas of Interest  Examples Engagement Examples Grievance Mitigation  Examples Employees Operations, Power  Plants, Corporate,  Union, Contractors,  Executives,  Leadership Job Expectations and  Roles, Policies, Industry  Changes, Safety,  Negotiations, Training,  Benefits 2x Weekly Employee Newsletters,  HR and Compliance Training, Safety  Roadshows, Leader Updates, Green  Team and Community Volunteer  Opportunities, Performance  Management Process, Engagement  Surveys, Recruiting and""
""Service,  Account Management,  Outages, Energy Efficiency,  Rate Options, Assistance,  Construction, Renewable  Energy, EVs, Safety,  Community Engagement Monthly Statements with Customizable  Information and Notices; Online,  Phone and Mobile App Account  Management and Outage Tools; Digital  and In-Person Assistance Resources;  Program Marketing; Business Customer  Representatives; Social Media Updates  and Notifications; Project Open Houses;  Regulatory Public Meetings; Public  Safety""
""Campaigns Contact Center (phone/email),  Evergy Connect Locations  (in person), Business Center,  Social Media, Online KS and  MO Commissions Complaint  Procedure and Forms,  Customer Solutions Group,  Customer Affairs Advisors Non-Customers Property Owners, Landowners,  New Project Construction,  Rebuild Projects,  Environmental Impacts Open Houses and Public Meetings for  Prospective Projects; Direct and Email  Communications; Dedicated Real Estate  Resources Project Manager, Real Estate""
""Representative, Contact Center  (phone/email), Evergy Connect  Locations (in person), Social  Media, Website Local Leaders  and Community  Organizations City Officials and  Government,  Local Interest  Groups, Schools, Non-Profits, HOAs Service Reliability,  Residential and Business  Impacts, Community  Support and Development,  Safety, DE&I, Environmental  Impact, Local Economies,  Recruiting, Educational  Opportunities Public Meetings and Forums to Discuss  Projects; Employee Giving Campaigns;""
""Paid Volunteer Time Off; Community  Slide Library for Public Presentations;  Assistance Grants for Local Businesses;  Recruiting and Workforce Pipeline  Programs; Scholarship Opportunities  for Local Students; Ecology and Wildlife  Sustainability Projects Government Affairs Contacts,  Contact Center (phone/email),  Evergy Connect Locations  (in person), Business Center,  Social Media, Online KS and  MO Commissions Complaint  Procedure and Forms,  Customer Solutions Group,  Customer Affairs""
""Advisors,  Media Line Legislators and  Regulators Elected Officials, Kansas  Corporation  Commission,  Missouri  Public Service  Commission Corporate Governance,  Environmental Controls,  Rate Competitiveness,  Customer Options and  Tools, Reliability Dedicated Government Affairs and  Regulatory Resources to Engage with  Officials; Participation in Regulatory  Processes, Transparency in Resource  Planning; Multiple Public Reports  and Disclosures about Reliability,  Sustainability and""
""Affordability; Federal  Natural Resource Conservation  Programs Participation; Emissions and  Environmental Control Advancement  Government Affairs Contacts,  Regulatory Group Contacts,  Customer Affairs Advisors Investors Shareholders, Financial/ Investment  Professionals Credit Ratings, Stock  Performance, Short- and  Long-Term Planning, Risk  Mitigation, Company  Growth and Sustainability,  Regulatory Relationships,  Corporate Governance Quarterly Earnings Calls; Annual  Shareholder Meeting;""
""Investor  Conferences, Sustainability, and IRP  Disclosures; SEC filings Investor Relations Contacts,  Media Line, Business Center,  Social Media Keep an eye out in this report for callouts within specific sections highlighting specific stakeholder engagement  events or activities reflecting the details of this procedure.  54 Social |  STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT: As Evergy works to add new generation resources to its fleet, Stakeholder Engagement plays a critical role in  getting these projects""
""program focused on our  employee and their family's  health, providing programs  in our five dimensions of Wellbeing: physical,  environmental, emotional, financial, and social.  5 Dimensions to Wellbeing  62 Employees have access to comprehensive wellbeing tools and resources. The foundation of Wellbeing is Evergy’s ‘Three Steps to Healthier You’ program. This annual program provides  employees with the tools and motivation you they to take charge of their health. The wellness program is""
""designed to: •  Help employees know their metrics by completing a routine health screening with their primary care provider. •  Understand their individual risks by completing an online assessment. •  Provide rewards for actions to a healthier lifestyle by participating in one of the many programs offered during the  calendar year. Flexible Hybrid Work Environment Working at Evergy means delivering quality services to our customers and creating a workplace that fosters flexibility  while""
""comprised of local union safety leaders, local  management, and local safety representatives.  68 Employee Safety Throughout 2024 and into 2025, Evergy remains focused on programs and partnerships to eliminate injuries and build  a safe culture. Those efforts include:  •  Eliminating serious injuries through continued education and incorporation of Energy Based Safety (EBS) and the  Energy Wheel. •  A reduction of costly and impactful musculoskeletal injuries by standing up the Evergy Moves""
""Wheel, keep  employees focused on identifying high-energy hazards and mitigating  them, thus preventing Serious Injury Fatality (SIF) and Potential  Serious Injury Fatality (PSIF) events.  To saturate EBS in 2024, we focused on teaching employees about how to use the Energy Wheel and the positive  impacts that it can have when used as a layer of hazard mitigation on our jobsites. As shown below, utilizing the  Energy Wheel in job hazard identification, increased a worker’s chance of recognizing""
""a hazard in every category of  high energy on the Energy Wheel.  Social |   69 In addition to these efforts to prevent serious injuries,  Evergy also invested in a relationship with Vimocity  to stand up our Evergy Moves Program. Vimocity  combines the best of sports medicine and movement  science to reduce the most common and costly  injuries faced in the utility and energy industries.  The Evergy Moves (powered by Vimocity) Programs  provides Evergy employees the opportunity to invest  a few""
""metrics include: •  PSIF level events investigated with follow-up actions completed on time.  •  DART  - Days away (from work) restricted or transferred.  •  PVAR – Preventable vehicle accident rate. Data related to Evergy’s full time employees’ safety metrics can be found in our most recent EEI Sustainability Metrics. In addition to the focus on our three main priorities of EBS, EvergyMoves and safe driving and measuring our  performance on those items, Evergy Teams also put a significant""
""Teams All coal-fired generation facilities have confined space and high-angle  rescue teams. Rescue personnel are trained annually, using real life  scenarios and rescue situations. These teams have a comprehensive  scope of skills that include rope rescue techniques and other  specialized gear/equipment. Teams perform rescue work in areas  that could include the side of a building, elevated scaffolding/  ladders, and confined spaces. •  Fire Brigade Jeffery Energy Center has a trained fire""
""the year including  when contractors are called upon to support in storm  restoration efforts. Evergy tracks monthly hours and safety performance  for contractors who regularly work on the property.  Evergy also partners with our contractors on incident  reviews. We believe the transparent sharing of  information and proactive safety improvement opportunities allows for both our internal employees and contractors  to work safer. Contractor incidents and incident investigations are reported""
""performance Shareholder engagement Risks related to budgeting,  ﬁ nancing, tax, and other matters Audit Oversees ﬁ nancial reporting, internal  controls, and independent auditor Oversees Evergy’s enterprise risk  management, policies, processes, and  framework Code of Ethics and compliance activities Oversees environmental, social,  and governance  reporting BOARD   Directs and oversees management CEO succession planning Oversees major risks, including  strategic and climate risks, and""
""mitigation of those risks *Additional information  can be found in Evergy’s  corporate governance  guidelines and each  committee charter, which  are available on our website Compensation &  Leadership Development Aligns compensation with shareholder  and stakeholder interests Reviews effectiveness of Company  culture and engagement programs Workforce composition strategy  and culture Succession planning Nominating,  Governance, and Sustainability Board of Director composition Corporate""
""governance structure Reviews effectiveness of environmental,  social, and governance programs Corporate responsibility, political  contributions, and other  stakeholder matters Operations Power supply resources, risks, and strategy Oversees power delivery, customer  service, and information technology Reviews operational risks, including  physical security, and cybersecurity Environmental matters, including  compliance, reporting, and  stakeholder interests  78 Topic Feature Shareholder""
""compliant clawback policy and provisions in award agreements Whistleblower hotline No shareholder rights plan or poison pill No short selling, hedging, or pledging allowed by any employee or  non-employee director Sustainable  Operations and  GHG Emission  Reduction Board review of Environmental, Social, and Governance matters CO2e emission goal of net zero for scope 1 and 2, by 2045, assuming key  technology, policy, and regulatory enablers are in place Over half of power generated from non-CO2""
""emitting sources in 2024  (compared to 2005 base levels) Transparent environmental disclosures Political Spending Board review of political spending Annual disclosure of political spending Cybersecurity Annual cybersecurity training and review of risk mitigation programs Board review of cybersecurity matters     Governance Highlights* *Refer to the committee charters, governance documents and public policies at  investors.evergy.com/corporate-governance/documents-charters for additional""
""Ethics and Supplier Code of Conduct are available below: Code of Ethics Supplier Code of Conduct  Shareholder Rights We also value shareholder participation in our governance processes. We introduced proxy access rights for  shareholders in the 2020 proxy season. Our bylaws allow one or more shareholders owning at least 15 percent of  common stock to call special shareholder meetings, provided requirements are met. Our proxy statement includes  additional information about our environmental,""
""measure efficacy of the program and facilitate continual improvement. Board Approved:  Code of Ethics Human Rights Policy Executive Management Approved: Policy on Safety Policy on Environmental Practices Policy on Water Resources Policy on Waste Management  80 Governance |  The Evergy Companies’ risk mitigation function utilizes the National Institute of Standards and Technology  Cybersecurity Framework, the United States Department of Energy Cyber Capability Maturity Model standard and""
""security procedures to consider proper innovative technology and protection methods. As part of our annual  information technology employee compliance training, employees receive training on privacy. Privacy risk is included  in information technology functions, which Evergy’s Board of Directors oversees.     Sustainability Governance Annually, the Nominating, Governance, and Sustainability Committee assesses the effectiveness of the Board, its  committees, and reviews the results with the""
""community and political  relations; and environmental, social and governance, which was added as a standalone core competency in 2021 in  recognition of the importance of environmental, social, and governance matters to our stakeholders. Evergy has also established a management structure to oversee and drive Sustainability matters. For many  years, Evergy has had a working group composed of leaders of Evergy’s corporate governance, investor relations,  environmental stewardship, operations,""
""public affairs, and community relations to monitor and lay the foundation for  sustainability objectives and reporting. In addition, Evergy has a Sustainability Steering Committee comprised of our President and Chief Executive Officer,  Chief Financial Officer, and many additional senior executives and officers to identify company priorities, provide a  platform and resources to implement sustainability initiatives, and engage with the Board committees responsible for  sustainability matters.""
""Governance |   82 Governance |  Key Sustainability Responsibilities •  Risk oversight and mitigation •  Corporate governance, sustainability, political and lobbying spending •  Company culture and engagement programs  •  Environmental matters, environmental policy, and environmental reporting Board of Directors  and Committees  Oversight Executive Sustainability  Steering Committee Comprised of Officers and  Senior Executives •  Direct company sustainability program •  Report on""
""sustainability initiatives and topics to the Board •  Incorporate key sustainability topics into company strategic initiatives Sustainability Working Group  Comprised of multiple department  heads across Evergy •  Oversee specific business objectives that impact sustainability •  Provide relevant information and data to support sustainability  reporting •  Communicate and carry out sustainability  initiatives within  specific business units •  Coordinate Steering Committee and Working Group""
""•  Gather data and report externally •  Participate in industry stakeholder projects, which  includes mapping to frameworks (SASB, TCFD,  EEI, etc.) Corporate Sustainability Sustainability program management Data Governance Environmental, Social, and Governance issues and associated metrics are important for many. Robust, complete,  and comparable data is crucial to managing related issues and is expected by internal and external stakeholders.  To this end, in 2024, Evergy received independent""
""third-party verification of the 2024 scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions.  The verification was done in alignment with the principles of ISO 14064-3:2006. Evergy also received third-party  verification on recordable incident rate, total fatalities, workforce training hours, and total workforce cost. Third party verification of Sustainability related data can be beneficial to: •  Establish a robust baseline for future net-zero or other decarbonization activity. •  Meet market demand for reliable""
""sustainability performance information. •  Increase the efficiency of processes for sustainability reporting. In addition to this external verification, Evergy has established data collection process and controls that are  periodically reviewed by Evergy’s Audit Services department. During 2024, Evergy’s Sustainability Team also  implemented a software designed to facilitate, collect, and receive management signoff of company metrics  and information for Sustainability reporting which adds""
""metrics, targets, and results for safety,  reliability, customer, and financial. The goals, targets, and results of our 2024 executive incentive plans are disclosed in our 2025 proxy statement. The  2024 compensation plan continued to support our strategic business plan with metrics similar to our 2023 metrics  and targets focused on continued year-over year improvement. For 2024, the Long-term Incentive Plan included  an environmental metric based on total megawatts of owned renewables""
""additions by year-end 2026 or buy-ins of  purchase power agreements.  84 Statements made in this report that are not based on historical facts are forward-looking, may involve risks and uncertainties, and are intended to be as of the  date when made. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements based on Evergy managements’ current assumptions and expectations,  including statements regarding our ESG targets, goals, commitments and programs, and relating to the strategic""
""plan for Evergy, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the “Evergy  Companies”), including, without limitation, those related to earnings per share, dividend, operating and maintenance expense and capital investment goals; the  outcome of legislative efforts and regulatory and legal proceedings; future energy demand including demand driven by new and existing customers; future power  prices; plans with respect to existing and potential future generation resources; the availability and cost of generation""
""resources and energy storage; target emissions  reductions;  and other matters relating to expected financial or ESG performance or affecting future operations. Forward-looking statements are often accompanied  by forward-looking words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “expects,” “estimates,” “forecasts,” guidance, “should,” “could,” “may,” “seeks,” “intends,” predict,  potential, opportunities, “proposed,” “projects,” “planned,” “target,” “outlook,” “remain confident,” “goal,” “will” or other""
""factors include,  but are not limited to: economic and weather conditions and any impact on sales, prices and costs; significant changes in the demand for electricity; changes  in business strategy or operations; , including with respect to the Evergy Companies' strategy to meet demand requirements of existing and future customers;  the impact of federal, state and local political, legislative, judicial and regulatory actions or developments, including deregulation, re-regulation, securitization""
""and restructuring of the electric utility industry; the ability to build or acquire generation and transmission facilities to meet the future demand for electricity  from customers; the ability to control costs, avoid costs and schedule overruns during the development, construction and operation of generation, transmission,  distribution or other projects due to challenges, which include, but are not limited to, changes in labor costs, availability and productivity, challenges with the""
""practices, or the interpretations thereof, governing tax, accounting and environmental matters, including air and water quality and waste management and disposal;  development, adoption and use of artificial intelligence by the Evergy Companies and its third-party vendors; the impact of climate change, including increased  frequency and severity of significant weather events; risks relating to potential wildfires, including costs of litigation, potential regulatory penalties and damages  in""
""excess of insurance liability coverage; the extent to which counterparties are willing to do business with, finance the operations of or purchase energy from  the Evergy Companies due to the fact that the Evergy Companies operate coal-fired generation; prices and availability of electricity and natural gas in wholesale  markets; market perception of the energy industry and the Evergy Companies; the impact of future pandemic health events on, among other things, sales, results  of operations,""
""financial position, liquidity and cash flows, and also on operational issues, such as supply chain issues and the availability and ability of the Evergy  Companies’ employees and suppliers to perform the functions that are necessary to operate the Evergy Companies; changes in the energy trading markets in which  the Evergy Companies participate, including retroactive repricing of transactions by regional transmission organizations (RTO) and independent system operators;  financial market""
""conditions and performance; disruptions in the banking industry, including volatility in interest rates and credit spreads and in availability and cost of  capital and the effects on derivatives and hedges, nuclear decommissioning trust and pension plan assets and costs; impairments of long-lived assets or goodwill;  credit ratings; inflation rates; effectiveness of risk management policies and procedures and the ability of counterparties to satisfy their contractual commitments;  impact of""
""and timely provision of equipment, supplies, labor and fuel; impacts of tariffs; ability to achieve generation goals and the occurrence and duration of planned and  unplanned generation outages; the Evergy Companies’ ability to manage their generation, transmission and distribution development plans and transmission joint  ventures; the inherent risks associated with the ownership and operation of a nuclear facility, including environmental, health, safety, regulatory and financial risks;""
""impact of  changing expectations and demands of the Evergy Companies' customers, regulators, investors and stakeholders, including  differing views on environmental, social  and governance concerns; the possibility that strategic initiatives, including mergers, acquisitions and divestitures, and long-term financial plans, may not create the  value that they are expected to achieve in a timely manner or at all; difficulties in maintaining relationships with customers, employees, contractors,""
