""Sustainability Report 2024  45   Risks and opportunities                 »       Storms, floods and other natural disasters              »       Emergency preparedness                  »       Nuclear safety                  »       Cybersecurity      52   Awards and recognitions                 »       2024            »       2023    54      Conclusion    56        Appendix A              »       Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Metrics     61        Appendix B              »""
""Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures     64      Appendix C              »       Edison Electric Institute ESG/Sustainability                            Quantitative Metrics    67      Appendix D              »       United Nations Sustainable Development                          Goals Metrics    69     Appendix E              »       Emissions Data and Third-Party Emissions                        Assurance Statements    70      Appendix F              »       Paris-aligned""
""Benchmark Article 12     71       Forward-looking statements              »       NextEra Energy Foundation giving                        º       Education investments                   »       Employee community support              »       Customer care                   »       Supplier network diversification                        º       Human rights                    »       Economic development                            º       Job creation                            º""
""Entrepreneur engagement     38  Governance              »       Sustainability oversight                        º       Board of directors                      º       Board committees                        º       Chief executive officer                         º       Executive leadership                            º       Sustainability executive steering committee                             and sustainability council                      º       Decarbonization team                    º""
""engagement   3      A letter from our chairman and CEO    5         About this report    7  NextEra Energy: America’s electricity leader            »       Our companies                   »       Company snapshot                »       Our portfolio                   »       Our clean energy journey                »       Our commitment to our goal              »       Our emerging clean technologies                 »       Our transmission infrastructure investments    14       Environmental""
""stewardship               »       Risk mitigation and management                  »       Carbon footprint reduction              »       Water conservation              »       Waste minimization                      º       Used nuclear fuel               »       Habitat and wildlife preservation                       º       Solar stewardship                       º       Wildlife and habitat research                           º       Manatees                        º       American""
""º       Tribal and Indigenous relations    Environmental, Social and Governance Report   |   2 Sustainability Report   |   2 Contents Cover:    1. Wild Quail Solar Energy Center in Defuniak Springs, Fla.     2. Clearwater Wind Energy Center in Rosebud, Custer and Garfield counties, Mont.        3. Manatee Battery Energy Center in Parrish, Fla.  Our scale is unmatched in our industry. Today we operate a  38-GW wind, solar and storage portfolio, a 6-GW nuclear  fleet and a 27-GW clean natural gas""
""fleet.* We are dedicated  to operational excellence across every technology and to  continuous improvement in safety and operational efficiency.  We know what each technology costs and what we can do  to operate each one cost-effectively. We are pushing forward  the frontiers of knowledge in all parts of the power generation  value chain.  To all our stakeholders:   Thank you for wanting to learn more about NextEra Energy,  the leading provider of electricity to American homes and  businesses.""
""We’re a homegrown, American company creating  good jobs and revitalizing local economies in nearly every  state. And we are helping America compete globally by  extending low-cost energy to our customers in Florida and  across the country.    We lead an industry that is at an inflection point. Over the  next two decades, U.S. power demand growth is expected  to increase by approximately 55%. That is an annual growth  rate more than six times higher than over the previous two  decades. This""
""We believe this secular shift in demand will require an  expansion of low-cost and fast-to-deploy energy solutions  – and that means more solar, wind and co-located battery  storage. Renewables not only are the lowest-cost and fastest  generation technologies to deploy, but also are clean and   face few regulatory constraints compared to current  alternatives. Renewables do not require fuel other than  sunshine and wind – making them energy independent, not  subject to fuel price volatility and""
""less impacted by inflation.  Because renewables are the best solution to meet much of  the rising demand for power and technology, we now expect  between 375 gigawatts (GW) and 450 GW of new renewable  capacity will be built in the U.S. over the next seven years,  compared to more than 140 GW built over the previous   seven years.    NextEra Energy was built for just this type of inflection point,  as our company has two strong businesses that together  lead our industry. Florida Power & Light""
""Company (FPL), the  largest electric utility in America by both megawatt-hour sales  and number of customers, has demonstrated its expertise in  managing growth in a state that welcomes roughly 1,000 new  residents every day. NextEra Energy Resources, the world  leader in wind- and solar-generated electricity and a world  leader in battery storage, has partnered with both power and  commercial and industrial customers to meet their growing  demand for clean energy projects and the transmission""
""to  connect them. Together, our two complementary businesses  have experience in every part of the energy value chain. And  we have a long track record of designing optimal low-cost,  clean power solutions for customers.    Underlying both businesses is a common platform that exists  because both businesses are part of a single enterprise that  leverages our scale, experience and technology – which we  refer to as our SET – to maximize benefits for our customers  and shareholders.   A letter""
""from our   CHAIRMAN AND CEO Sustainability Report   |   3         NextEra Energy was built   for just this type of industry   inflection point. John Ketchum, NextEra Energy chairman and CEO. *As of June 30, 2024; Includes NextEra Energy Partners’ portfolio reflected at NextEra Energy’s  ownership share  About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and""
""recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Our experience also is unmatched. We have spent decades  building the best team in the business and cultivating a culture  to foster innovation, efficiency and growth. We have deep  market knowledge from decades of building and operating  the largest renewables portfolio in the country. We bring  transmission solutions to the table. At FPL, we’re automating,  hardening and undergrounding our distribution system and  building new""
""transmission to enable new generation. At  NextEra Energy Resources, we are a leading competitive  transmission provider, building new transmission to enable  more renewables, while operating more than 94,000 circuit  miles of transmission and distribution lines at a cost   75% lower than the national average. And we have deep   customer relationships built over decades in which we have  consistently and reliably served them, both at FPL and   NextEra Energy Resources.    And our technology is""
""unmatched, as we are harnessing one  of the largest data sets in the industry to optimize project  development, drive performance and increase returns. We  generate more than 560 billion operational data points each  day that drive analytical, real-time decision making across our  fleet. We use data and analytics daily to operate our FPL fossil  fleet, which is the only fossil fleet in America that is operated  remotely. In addition, we operate our renewables fleet at FPL  and NextEra Energy""
""Resources remotely from our Renewable  Operations Control Center in Florida. We’re now using our  data and technology to design generative AI solutions across  our business to further advance our competitive advantages.  And we know how to use all of this to help our customers  navigate the many challenges facing their own businesses.     Our SET drives shareholder value across our enterprise and  customer value at each of our businesses. At FPL, we bring  our SET to the nation’s leading""
""electric utility. We know how to  support growth, powering one of the fastest-growing states in  the nation. We have expertise across solar, storage, nuclear,  Sustainability Report   |   4 Wheatridge Renewable Energy Facility in Heppner, Ore. fossil and transmission. We deploy innovative solutions and  technologies to lower costs for customers. We are experts in  managing through disruptive events like hurricanes. We are  building the utility of the future and have relationships and  mutual""
""respect across the utility paradigm.    At NextEra Energy Resources, we bring our SET to  renewables and storage as the world’s leader. We know  how to leverage our massive data sets, operating our sites  digitally and remotely. We are leveraging AI solutions to pick  and operate the best sites. We are experts in renewables  development and transmission, supporting our roughly   300-GW pipeline. We can deliver speed-to-market from our  existing 38-GW operating footprint.* We have strong customer""
""relationships from years serving power and commercial and  industrial customers. And we can offer our customers a  systematic solution versus a single renewable project to meet  their power demand needs.  We believe the convergence of power and technology is just  starting to unfold and that it is driving significantly increasing  long-term load demand as our economy electrifies. This power  and technology revolution will have a long-term effect on the  economy. Like other revolutions before it,""
""unfolds for  all of us.        JOHN W. KETCHUM  NEX TERA ENERGY CHAIRMAN AND CEO *As of June 30, 2024; Includes NextEra Energy Partners’ portfolio reflected at NextEra Energy’s  ownership share About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Sustainability Report   |   5 East-West Tie""
""transmission line in Ontario, Canada ABOUT THIS REPORT About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  ABOUT THIS REPORT This report also documents our track record of delivering  results for our customers and shareholders and our vision   for a zero-carbon-emissions future.      This report""
""includes Sustainability Accounting Standards  Board (SASB) metrics under the Electric Utilities and Power  Generators Standard in Appendix A and is aligned with the  Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)  in Appendix B, which also includes mapping sections of the  report to the four TCFD pillars.  We also report sustainability disclosures through the   Edison Electric Institute (EEI) ESG/Sustainability template in  Appendix C and the United Nations Sustainable Development""
""Goals (SDGs) in Appendix D. Our report includes a Third- Party Emissions Statement in Appendix E. Appendix F also is  included to provide detail around NextEra Energy’s alignment  to the Paris-aligned Benchmark Article 12. Additional metrics  can be found on the Sustainability Resources page on the  investor relations section of our website. At NextEra Energy, we set ambitious goals, deliver measurable  results and hold ourselves to the highest standards. In recent  years, investors and other""
""stakeholders have shown increased  interest in understanding our goals, results and standards  within the framework of sustainability reporting. We are proud  of the work we are doing in this area and believe such goals  must be economically sustainable. We are confident that  our leadership position in renewable energy will benefit our  customers, the environment and the U.S. economy. This   report is designed to highlight our core strategy and  disclosures, based on feedback from the""
""investment  community and other stakeholders.     NextEra Energy reports sustainability disclosures through  multiple channels, including this report, to provide  stakeholders with an understanding of our approach to  sustainability and our long-term strategy to provide clean,  reliable and low-cost energy solutions across North America.       We are confident that our  leadership position in renewable  energy will benefit our customers,  the environment and the U.S.  economy. Sustainability""
""Report   |   6 Cavendish Solar Energy Center in Okeechobee, Fla. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Sustainability Report   |   7 Lacy Creek Wind Energy Center in Glasscock and Sterling counties, Texas NextEra Energy: America’s   Electricity Leader About this report Appendices""
""NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO     Our goal aims to deliver a  carbon-free future, while keeping  electric bills low, spurring job  creation and economic growth,  and further securing America’s  energy. We believe this journey   will bring cost-effective solutions   to customers.  Sustainability Report   |""
""8 ~16,800  employees ~50% below  the national average carbon   dioxide (CO2)-emissions rate 90%  safety performance   improvement since 2003 ~$177 Billion  in total assets 1)       Data as of year-end 2023    2)  Includes NextEra Energy Partners’ portfolio reflected at NextEra Energy’s ownership share  3)   Data refers to time period between 2008 and 2023 ~$28 Billion  in operating revenues ~$134 Billion  of infrastructure capital  deployed since 2013 49 states and   4 canadian provinces  with a""
""presence, operations   or development projects ~67,000 megawatts (MW)(2)  of net generating   capacity ~370%(3)  outperformance on total shareholder   return vs. S&P 500 utilities index   Headquartered in Juno Beach, Florida, NextEra Energy is a  Fortune 200 company shaping the future of energy through  innovation and infrastructure investments in the U.S.   and Canada.  » Our companies NextEra Energy’s two primary companies are Florida Power &  Light Company (FPL) and NextEra Energy Resources.""
""FPL is  the largest electric utility in the U.S. by retail megawatt-hour  (MWh) sales and number of customers. In 2023, FPL was  again recognized as one of the most reliable utilities in   the nation. NextEra Energy: America’s   Electricity Leader Company snapshot(1) About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our""
""chairman and CEO  Sustainability Report   |   9 NextEra Energy Resources, which operates in 41 states and  Canada as of year-end 2023, is the world leader in electricity  generated from the wind and sun** and a world leader in  battery storage. NextEra Energy Resources is helping its  73% Natural Gas 66% Wind 4% Other* 6% Solar 1% Other 11% Solar 20% Nuclear 19% Nuclear 2023 2023 FPL’s Energy Mix (MWh) NextEra Energy ReSources’ Energy Mix (MWh) *Primarily natural gas customers and stakeholders""
""across the country meet the  significant electricity demand with clean, reliable and   low-cost energy solutions. Seabrook Nuclear Power Plant in Seabrook, N.H. **Produced on a net-generation basis, which is the net ownership interest in plant(s) generation About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman""
""and CEO  Legend Wind Universal Solar Battery Storage Nuclear Natural Gas Other Pipeline Transmission State/province where  NextEra Energy has a  presence and/or operations Our portfolio* NextEra Energy’s  presence extends  to 49 states and  four Canadian  provinces. *NextEra Energy assets in operation as of Dec. 31, 2023. This map does not include individual small-scale projects. Sustainability Report   |   10 About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader""
""Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  FPL’s coal phase-out strategy Coal plant retirements   by FPL in Florida:    2016   Cedar Bay  250 MW    2018  St. Johns River Power Park  254 MW (Units 1 and 2   ownership portion)    375 MW (Units 1 and 2 bought   purchased power agreement  portion)    2020  Indiantown Cogeneration  330 MW    Plant Crist 924 MW (Units""
""4-7) Coal plant retirements   outside of Florida:    2022  Plant Scherer  634 MW   (Unit 4 ownership share)    2024  Plant Daniel  502 MW   (Units 1 and 2 ownership share)     2028  Plant Scherer  215 MW   (Unit 3 ownership share)  FPL operates no coal-fired generation in Florida. Sustainability Report   |   11 » Our clean energy journey We began our clean energy journey in the 1980s when we  invested in our first solar and wind projects. Twenty years later,  we made the strategic decision in""
""Florida to move FPL away  from oil generation and replace it with highly fuel-efficient clean  energy centers that run on American-produced natural gas or  cost-effective solar.   FPL’s generation fleet continues to be one of the cleanest  and most efficient in the country, evidenced by a CO2- emissions-reduction rate that’s 20% better than the national  average* over the past 20 years. Since 2001, we have saved  Florida customers nearly $16 billion in avoided fuel costs and  eliminated more""
""than 200 million tons of CO2 emissions.  Following the retirement of its last coal-fired generation plant at  the end of 2020, FPL no longer operates coal-fired generation  in Florida. In fact, in 2023, FPL generated approximately 26%  of its electricity from zero-carbon-emissions solar and nuclear.  Over the next decade, FPL’s emissions-free power generation  is expected to more than double to 56%.   NextEra Energy continues to transform our company and  our industry by pioneering new""
""technologies, continuing to  operate our emissions-free nuclear facilities, adding more low- cost solar to our generation fleet, expanding our renewables  leadership position nationwide, and delivering clean and low- cost energy solutions for customers across the energy value  chain. We plan to invest approximately $97 billion to $107  billion in American infrastructure through 2027.** FPL plans to significantly expand its low-cost solar capacity in  Florida, which currently makes up about 6% of""
""its generation  mix, by adding more solar generation and storage capacity.  Each solar site that FPL brings online avoids CO2 emissions  equivalent to removing 14,000 gas-powered cars from Florida  roads annually. FPL’s solar additions have already saved  customers $900 million in fuel costs since 2009. By leveraging its competitive advantages, NextEra Energy  Resources is uniquely positioned to power the growth and  electrification of the U.S. economy and be the renewables  partner of choice to""
""support power, commercial and industrial  (C&I) customers. Monarch Solar Energy Center came online in 2023, near the site of a former FPL coal plant in Indiantown, Fla. **As of June 11, 2024, Investor Conference *National average from U.S. Energy Information Administration, April 2024 Monthly Energy Review About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and""
""recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Sustainability Report   |   12 As of June 30, 2024, NextEra Energy Resources had 31 GW* of clean energy in operation and expects to build  approximately 36.5 GW to 46.5 GW of new wind, solar and  battery storage projects by 2027.   » Our commitment to our goal In 2022, NextEra Energy announced its industry-leading goal  to be carbon-emissions free by no later than 2045, with zero  scope 1 direct emissions from owned assets and zero""
""scope  2 indirect emissions from owned or leased operations. We  have set clear interim emissions-reduction targets, aiming for  a 70% reduction in electric generation intensity by 2025, 82%  by 2030, 87% by 2035, 94% by 2040, and reaching 100% by  no later than 2045. We recognize that achieving this goal is  contingent upon several key assumptions, including the ability  to do so without any incremental costs to our customers.    For us, this goal is an extension of our core values and  a""
""continuation of work we have done for decades to  systematically modernize our power plant fleet. Our goal aims  to deliver a carbon-free future, while keeping electric bills  low, spurring job creation and economic growth, and further  securing America’s energy independence. We believe this  journey will bring cost-effective solutions to customers and  save billions of dollars in fuel costs to generate electricity. We  achieve this by investing in our own system and by becoming  the preferred""
""partner for customers in pursuit of a sustainable,  carbon-free future.   » Our emerging clean technologies NextEra Energy believes that achieving zero-carbon   emissions will require investment and participation in   emerging technologies that can help reduce carbon   emissions from various sectors of the economy, such   as energy, transportation, industry and agriculture. Better 2045 2040 2030 2035 2025 80% 70% 90% 100%  70%  82%  87%  94%  100% NextEra Energy’s C02-Emissions-Rate-Reduction""
""GoaL** **The CO2-emissions-rate-reduction goal is based on owned generation and a 2005 baseline that is adjusted to account for acquisitions and divestitures during the goal period. Certain facilities within the  NextEra Energy wind and solar generation portfolio produce renewable energy credits and other environmental attributes that are typically sold along with the energy from plants under long-term contracts  or that may be sold separately from wind and solar generation not sold under long-""
""term contracts. The purchasing party is solely entitled to the reporting rights and ownership of the environmental  attributes. Visit Reports and Filings on the investor section of NextEraEnergy.com for more information. NextEra Energy aims to continuously reduce its CO2-emissions rate until reaching our zero-carbon-emissions goal.  *Includes NextEra Energy Partners’ portfolio reflected at NextEra Energy Resources’ ownership share About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s""
""electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  An example of one of these emerging technologies can be  seen in the FPL Cavendish NextGen Hydrogen Hub, FPL’s  clean hydrogen pilot project that began serving customers  earlier this year. FPL uses solar energy from its neighboring  Cavendish Solar Energy Center to power electrolyzers,   which split""
""water molecules into hydrogen and oxygen. The  hydrogen is then blended with natural gas and used to fuel   a combined-cycle plant, thereby reducing its emissions.   » Our transmission infrastructure investments NextEra Energy is not just a leader in developing, constructing  and operating power plants that generate low-cost electricity,  but also an expert in safely delivering it to millions of homes  and businesses in both good weather and bad.     Building additional transmission is essential""
""to support  long-term renewables deployment necessary to meet the  increased demand for electricity in the U.S. Our subsidiary,  NextEra Energy Transmission, a leading competitive electric  transmission business in the U.S., is pursuing more than   $40 billion in transmission opportunities between 2024   and 2026.   NextEra Energy Transmission secured major contracts in  2023 and 2024 from the California Independent System  Operator, the Southwest Power Pool and PJM Interconnection  to increase""
""transmission capacity in Nevada, New Mexico,  Virginia, West Virginia, Pennsylvania and Maryland. These  projects are expected to update aging infrastructure, provide  access to renewable energy and enhance the reliability and  resiliency of the energy grid. Sustainability Report   |   13 NextEra Energy Transmission MidAtlantic Indiana rebuilt a 20-mile double-circuit overhead 345-kilovolt transmission line. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader""
""Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Sustainability Report   |   14 Golden West Wind Energy Center in Calhan, Colo. Environmental stewardship About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A""
""letter from our   chairman and CEO      Before we build any operating  facility, we study the local  ecosystem to better understand  what it takes to be a partner in its  preservation. NextEra Energy has been an industry leader in environmental  conservation and stewardship for many decades, and  we continue to demonstrate that commitment across our  enterprise. Being good stewards of the environment begins  with making the right choices. We invest in low- and zero- carbon-emissions generation""
""and have an environmental  policy committed to preventing pollution, minimizing waste and  conserving natural resources and habitats where we operate.  We also support environmental education, conservation and  research through philanthropic giving, and we conserve and  enhance biodiversity on land we manage. To ensure we are  addressing all critical environmental issues, we proactively  engage with communities and environmental and   government stakeholders.     » Risk mitigation and management""
""As part of our commitment to the environment, we comply  with federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations  and permits that govern NextEra Energy’s and our industry’s  operations. Each business unit has developed processes  and procedures to manage these requirements and looks  Environmental stewardship for opportunities to improve on these requirements as part  of the company’s commitment to excellence and continuous  improvement.     To ensure safe and sustainable operations, we""
""have team  members dedicated to identifying, mitigating and managing  environmental risks. The team includes experts in air,  water, remediation, wildlife and habitat, oil and hazardous  substances, archaeology and cultural resources, and  environmental policy. Whether it is the modernization of  an existing generation facility, a clean energy development  project, a transmission or distribution infrastructure project or  development of corporate facilities, our environmental services  team is""
""part of the entire life cycle of each project to ensure   we identify, mitigate and manage any potential impacts to   the environment.    We also work closely with a wide range of environmental  organizations to ensure we develop and operate our projects  responsibly. Our commitment to environmental stewardship  goes beyond compliance. We employ a multifaceted, proactive  approach to managing environmental conservation and  stewardship and strive to achieve our goal of zero significant""
""environmental events every year.   Sustainability Report   |   15 Workers check automated water quality sensors as part of routine monitoring around FPL’s Turkey Point Clean Energy Center in Homestead, Fla. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  The internal corporate environmental""
""governance program  conducts quarterly business unit reviews. Business unit  representatives rank and review environmental risks and risk  mitigation countermeasures, report on their performance  against business-unit specific environmental metrics and  discuss upcoming and pending regulation changes and  requirements.      Environmental risks are reviewed and communicated   through a comprehensive due diligence process during the  development, construction and operating life of each facility.""
""During a project’s development, multiple internal risk-vetting  sessions occur at progressively higher levels of management  and review sessions are held with senior executives. These  sessions include environmental representation to ensure  environmental risks are being identified and managed.      Our highly skilled teams perform environmental inspections  and audits of our construction sites and operational facilities  to verify compliance with environmental laws, regulations and  permits.""
""These programs provide a conduit for identifying  and communicating best practices, risks and improvement  opportunities among sites. During a project’s construction and  commissioning, teams perform environmental construction  compliance inspections to ensure that all applicable  environmental conditions are met.     To ensure environmental compliance during operations,  facilities are audited based on their risk profile in order to  verify the facility is complying with applicable""
""environmental  requirements and company environmental policy. Additionally,  we have a program to review and approve our waste disposal  and recycling vendors that are responsible for accepting our   waste streams.      Sustainability Report   |   16 OUR C02-emissions RATE IS SIGNIFICANTLY BETTER THAN THE INDUSTRY AVERAGE  DUE TO OUR CLEAN ENERGY INVESTMENTS AND ACTIONS U.S. Electric Power Sector  CO2-emissions rate* Others in our sector are reaching carbon-emissions-reduction levels today that""
""we achieved more than 15 years ago. C02 Lbs/MWh 600 400 200 0 800 1000 1600 1400 1200 2023 2022 2021 2020 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2023 ~50% better than  industry  average 2005 37% better than  industry  average *Data from EIA Monthly Energy Review (2005-2022) and EIA Annual Energy Outlook (2023) Better NextEra Energy   CO2-emissions rate About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship""
""Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Nearly 77% of the water NextEra Energy generating facilities  withdrew in 2023 came from saltwater sources, which are  non-potable and not subject to drought. Importantly, 98.5% of  water withdrawn for use at our power plants is withdrawn via a  once-through cooling system and then returned to its original  source. The remainder is reused or consumed""
""through  evaporation or deep-well injection. Only one of 25 of our  generation facilities that use water is located in a region of  high- or extremely high-water stress in the U.S.       We continue to find innovative ways at our generation   facilities to use the lowest-quality water sources, including  reclaimed water when feasible and available in quantities  needed, which reduce impacts to higher-quality sources   like groundwater.     Additionally, at FPL’s Okeechobee Clean Energy Center,""
""we   are deepening a groundwater well to use lesser-quality water  from the Avon Park Production Zone, instead of sourcing  water from the Upper Floridan Aquifer. We also use reclaimed  water from the Emerald Coast Utilities Authority at FPL’s   Gulf Clean Energy Center and have been doing so for   nearly a decade.     FPL is constructing an advanced reclaimed water project in  partnership with Miami-Dade County that will reuse treated  wastewater from the county at FPL’s Turkey Point Clean""
""Energy Center.     The state-of-the-art FPL Miami-Dade Clean Water Recovery  Center (CWRC) will further treat and reuse up to 15 million  gallons per day of reclaimed water from the South District  Wastewater Treatment Plant. As one of the largest reclaimed  water projects in Florida, the facility will allow FPL to use 100%  of that reclaimed water to cool a natural gas combined-cycle  plant at Turkey Point.     Sustainability Report   |   17 NextEra Energy’s improvements in CO2   emissions from""
""2005 to 2023* 60% 31% reduction   in CO2-emissions   rate since 2005 reduction   in absolute CO2   tons emitted *The CO2  emissions are based on owned generation. The emissions rate is based on a 2005 baseline  that is adjusted to account for acquisitions and divestitures during the time period. Certain facilities  within the NextEra Energy wind and solar generation portfolio produce renewable energy credits  and other environmental attributes that are typically sold along with the energy from""
""plants under  long-term contracts or that may be sold separately from wind and solar generation not sold under  long-term contracts. The purchasing party is solely entitled to the reporting rights and ownership of the  environmental attributes. Visit Reports and Filings on the investor section of NextEraEnergy.com for  more information. Wildlife photo at Borderland Wind Energy Center in Catron County, N.M. » Carbon footprint reduction    For more than 20 years, we have transformed our energy""
""production from using coal and oil to high-efficiency natural  gas turbines and continue to expand our fleet of renewable  generation consisting of wind, solar and battery storage.  We have continued to operate our emissions-free nuclear  generation. Our portfolio has one of the lowest-emissions  profiles of any utility in North America.    Our 2023 scope 1, scope 2 and partial scope 3 emissions  inventory received independent third-party verification.   The verification activities were""
""conducted in alignment with  the principles of ISO 14064-3:2006(E) Specifications with  Guidance for the Validation and Verification of Greenhouse   Gas Assertions.     Our verified scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions data and additional  information can be found in Appendix E (Emissions data and  third-party emissions assurance statement) of this report.   Also see About this report and NextEra Energy: America’s  electricity leader in this report.     » Water conservation    Water is a vital natural""
""resource. We continue to take measures  to reduce our water consumption, including investing in both  water-free power generation from wind and photovoltaic (PV)  solar, and in more efficient generation at our facilities that use  steam turbines.  We embed water conservation management strategies into   our business planning and operational practices to lower   costs and mitigate risks posed by water availability. We   reduce consumption through efficiency, technology and  operational""
""improvements. Our investments in water-free wind  and PV solar energy, which currently comprise more than a  third of our company’s generating capacity, avoided the use   of more than 23 billion gallons of water in 2023.   About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  The project, which is""
""expected to be completed by the end of  2024, represents a win-win-win for FPL customers, Miami- Dade County and the state of Florida. The CWRC will increase  resiliency at the Turkey Point Clean Energy Center, provide a  cost-effective way to reuse and recycle treated wastewater  that would otherwise be discarded and conserve Floridan  Aquifer groundwater at the Turkey Point site. The CWRC also  will help Miami-Dade County meet regulations of the Ocean  Outfall Act, which set a state""
""requirement for the county to  reuse 60% of its wastewater.    » Waste minimization  We believe one of the best ways to deliver environmental   value is to reduce the amount of waste we generate in the   first place. We have implemented several company practices  to reduce waste that go beyond regulatory requirements,  including increasing awareness among employees. Our  environmental training program at waste generating facilities  not only provides required training, but also encourages""
""employees to identify innovative ways to minimize waste   and reuse materials.     NextEra Energy also reduces waste and streamlines   costs through a combined centralized location for waste  management. The regulated materials facility (RMF) serves as  FPL’s fleet accumulation site of non-nuclear hazardous and  universal waste. This simplifies the management of these  waste streams, which provides consistency in how hazardous  waste is managed and compliance is achieved. The RMF also   reduces""
""costs and liability to the company. In 2023, the   RMF recycled almost 12,000 tons of metal, 19.7 million  pounds of wood and concrete from FPL poles and saved   $4.9 million by refurbishing streetlights and putting them   back into inventory.      Across the company, our renewable fleet continues to make  significant strides in recycling. We have more than doubled the  number of solar panel recycling vendors that we work with as  part of our continued commitment to our waste minimization""
""strategy, which includes refurbishing, reusing and recycling as  renewable technologies continue to evolve.  Sustainability Report   |   18 Empty cable and wire spools are prepared for recycling at the company’s regulated materials facility in West Palm Beach, Fla. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our""
""chairman and CEO  º Used nuclear fuel  We comply with all legal requirements to ensure our used   nuclear fuel is stored safely. Used nuclear fuel, also referred to  as spent fuel rods, is a byproduct of power generation at every  nuclear power plant in the world, including NextEra Energy’s  four nuclear power plants. Spent uranium fuel rods comprise  the majority of high-level waste, while the remainder is low- level waste, which includes contaminated protective shoe  covers and clothing,""
""wiping rags, mops, filters, reactor water  treatment residues, equipment and tools.    Currently, spent fuel is safely contained in spent fuel pools at  nuclear power plant sites and then transferred to on-site dry  storage systems – safe, secure and well-proven technology  that has been used for more than 20 years in the U.S. Dry  storage facilities are heavily secured through a variety of  proven measures, including high-tech security and surveillance  systems, radiation monitoring, regular""
""security patrols, as well  as multiple levels of physical barriers. Dry storage has proven   to be both secure and environmentally sound. The facilities   are specifically designed and tested to provide protection   from extreme natural events, such as high winds and flooding  associated with hurricanes, storm surges, heavy rain events,  tornadoes, fires and earthquakes.    Low-level radioactive waste can be safely removed and  disposed of off-site at approved facilities within the U.S.      »""
""Habitat and wildlife preservation   Environmental stewardship includes habitat and wildlife  preservation. Before we build any operating facility, we study  the local ecosystem to better understand what it takes to be a  partner in its preservation and to be a good neighbor to all the  species that live there. We carefully consider the presence of  any threatened or endangered species, as well as established  critical habitat, wetlands or other ecologically important  areas. We seek to avoid,""
""minimize and mitigate the impact of  our development before we begin a project and, once a  project is operating, we continue to monitor potential impacts  to biodiversity. The land-based wind energy guidelines, avian  protection plan guidelines and manatee protection plans are   a few of the many policies and programs aimed at protecting  threatened and endangered species that we follow across our  operations. In addition to following all federal and state  regulations, we make important""
""contributions to scientific  research to support numerous vulnerable species and habitats  and to better understand how to reduce impacts. From sea  turtles to crocodiles to gopher tortoises and burrowing owls,  we have created or participate in programs across the country  that support many different species. Several examples of our  wildlife and habitat restoration projects follow.     Sustainability Report   |   19 Employee Mike Lloret releases American crocodile hatchlings in habitat""
""surrounding FPL’s Turkey Point Clean Energy Center in Homestead, Fla. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  º Solar stewardship     At our Florida solar energy centers, we work with Audubon  Florida, plus additional local organizations, regulatory  agencies, municipalities, academic""
""institutions and community  groups to address local or regional environmental objectives.  Stewardship objectives focus on four guiding pillars:  conservation, wildlife, responsible land management, and  research and education.     We use a variety of methodologies, including but not limited   to, preserving and restoring wetlands and sensitive habitats;  increasing biodiversity through the use of appropriate native  plant species; incorporating pollinator species into existing  ground cover;""
""has conducted two camera studies to ensure  wildlife can access and use sites successfully. The most recent  study at the Sawgrass Solar Energy Center captured more  than 5,000 photos of various wildlife at the solar site, including  15 photos of panthers.    Documentation of panthers and other wildlife on this solar site  shows that a diverse array of species can and do use solar  energy center land. In 2021, FPL began expanding the use of  wildlife-friendly fencing at solar sites in Florida to""
""further allow  for wildlife use.     Outside of Florida, we follow a similar process to evaluate  opportunities to implement additional voluntary stewardship  actions on a project-by-project basis. Voluntary stewardship  supplements the development process and takes further steps  to preserve and enhance existing natural resources. These  additional actions can work to address local stakeholder  concerns, build upon required regulatory actions and   address stewardship goals, such as promoting""
""species  conservation. NextEra Energy Resources also developed a  cost-effective, pollinator-friendly seed mix to use at solar  energy projects. This carefully and deliberately developed   seed mix is beneficial for pollinators and compatible with the  operation and maintenance needs of solar projects. This   seed mix was built upon established concepts, published  research and professional recommendations to support  pollinator species, while also supporting clean and reliable  renewable""
""energy.     º Wildlife and habitat research    Supporting wildlife and habitat research in Florida and across  the country is part of NextEra Energy’s long history of  environmental stewardship.    NextEra Energy has partnered with the University of Illinois  Chicago’s Energy Resources Center in a research study to  Sustainability Report   |   20 Wild Quail Solar Energy Center in Defuniak Springs, Fla. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental""
""stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  answer key questions at the intersection of insect pollinator  conservation and solar power. The four-year project, entitled  Phase: Pollinator Habitat Aligned with Solar Energy, brings  together leading researchers and large-scale solar developers  to investigate the ecological and economic benefits, as well as  performance impacts of""
""co-located pollinator plantings at  large, utility-scale PV facilities in the Midwest and Mid-Atlantic.  One of these facilities is a subsidiary of NextEra Energy.    The NextEra Energy Foundation is providing ongoing support  through a multi-year gift to the Bats for the Future Fund   (BFF) managed by the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation.  Since 2017, BFF has awarded grants to projects that develop  and deploy field treatments, management tools and  conservation strategies for bat""
""populations that are currently  affected or are likely to be affected by white-nose syndrome.     NextEra Energy Resources also participates in the Renewable  Energy Wildlife Research Fund (REWRF) that works to solve  renewable energy, wildlife and related natural resource  challenges through sound science and collaboration. The  REWRF is currently funding innovative research projects  related to bats, eagles and grouse, and has expanded into  solar research topics to better understand the""
""habitat management efforts on public  and private lands for the state-threatened species.       º Manatees     For decades, FPL has worked closely with state and federal  agencies to ensure manatees are protected. In the 2022-2023  manatee season, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS)  and the FWC activated a temporary field response station for  the second year at FPL’s Cape Canaveral Clean Energy Center  to respond to the unusual mortality event in Florida and help  prevent further""
""Florida manatees. With this  knowledge, the NextEra Energy Foundation has provided  additional grants to the Fish and Wildlife Foundation of Florida  to support ongoing seagrass research and restoration.        Sustainability Report   |   21 Manatees feed on romaine lettuce at FPL’s Cape Canaveral Clean Energy Center in Cocoa, Fla., where an unusual mortality event response station was set up in partnership  with state and federal agencies. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:""
""America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  In collaboration with the USFWS and FWC, FPL hosted the  Warm Water Habitat Action Plan workshop in spring 2023.  This workshop brought stakeholders together to discuss the  long-term strategy for manatee use of warm water habitats  at power plants. FPL is committed to working with wildlife""
""was on the brink   of extinction in the U.S. due to habitat loss. Now, the species  has made a dramatic comeback in the habitat surrounding   FPL’s Turkey Point Clean Energy Center. In the 1980s, FPL  initiated a crocodile management program at the nuclear plant,  which has a 5,900-acre, man-made cooling canal system and  surrounding land that offer ideal nesting conditions for the  American crocodile.    Our crocodile management program includes preserving these  nesting areas, completing""
""siting practices, Golden  Hills Wind in Livermore, California, has been conducting a pilot  project using IdentiFlight®, a developing automated technology  that detects, identifies and protects eagles at wind farms by  using high-performance optical systems paired with machine  vision software to minimize effects to golden eagles at the site.  The pilot project has demonstrated very promising results. This  technology also is being installed at Cedar Springs IV Wind  in Converse County, Wyoming,""
""and Anticline Wind in Laramie  County, Wyoming, which both will go operational late in 2024. NextEra Energy Resources provided an unprecedented  conservation benefit to the federally endangered  California condor, one of the world’s rarest bird species,  through implementation of a Condor Conservation Plan  in the Tehachapi Mountains of Southern California. The  implementation of this plan, together with other members  of the Wind Energy Condor Action Team, funds the captive  propagation and""
""construct and retrofit more than 171,000  electric distribution poles to make them more bird friendly,  reducing avian risk and improving service reliability to   our customers.     FPL also maintains a scrub management plan to provide  guidance on vegetation management in scrub jay habitat.  We manage this habitat through specialized mowing in 10  selected transmission line easements that traverse portions  Sustainability Report   |   22 of Volusia, Brevard, Indian River, St. Lucie and Palm""
""Beach  counties. In addition to the Florida scrub jay, scrub habitat  can be home to many protected species, including gopher  tortoises and eastern indigo snakes. Employees Bret Abrams, left, and Daniel Sinclair assist with an osprey nest in  Naples, Fla., following Hurricane Ian. Photo courtesy of Rose Huey. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and""
""recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Sustainability Report   |   23 employees, customers   and communities Margie Sweezer-Fischer, vice president of operations for NextEra Energy Transmission, holds a patent on a new technology revolutionizing wind turbines with AI. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions""
""locations participate in the  Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) of the Occupational Safety  and Health Administration (OSHA).   employees, customers   and communities Sustainability Report   |   24       Attracting and retaining   a diverse and highly skilled and  multi-generational workforce helps  us deliver on our commitments  to excellence, innovation and  continuous improvement.  Employees Isaac Danso, left, and Daryl McGill work on equipment at the Generation Repair Services facility in""
""Story, Iowa. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Currently, 28 of our work locations have received an inspection  from OSHA and recognition as a VPP Star Site. We also  are committed to using suppliers with a demonstrated  commitment to safety.     The safety of FPL customers is""
""develop solutions to real business challenges.  Sustainability Report   |   25 Employee Rachana Vidhi, who during her 10 years with the company has obtained nine patents and has three pending, speaks about innovation during a conference. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Our talent""
""universities  and 18 Master of Business Administration (MBA) interns from  business schools across the nation in 2024. During their   Sustainability Report   |   26 12-week program, these aspiring energy professionals play a  role in developing innovative ideas and projects to help shape  the company’s future. For more than a decade, we have been  highly successful in transitioning our interns into full-time  employees to help accelerate our hiring pipeline.    We have a robust talent management""
""universities. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Sustainability Report   |   27 In 2024, 83% of NextEra Energy employees completed  the survey, ranking their immediate supervisor, safety,  performance, as well as diversity and inclusion among their  most positive work experiences.""
""advantage – internationally, nationally and  directly within the communities in which we live, work and  raise our families.   From left, employees Carolina Olivera, Erin Schreck and Olivia Johnson are arborists at FPL. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Sustainability Report   |""
""and   management demographics Nicole Daggs, NextEra Energy’s executive vice president of human resources, leads the 2024 Innovation Summit in Juno Beach, Fla. Pay parity: At NextEra Energy, we have a long-standing commitment to pay  parity that strives for equitable pay for employees in similar jobs. We have  reached pay parity of 99% for women and minorities at NextEra Energy. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees,""
""Employee Vijay Kelwadkar, a member of Asian Professionals in Energy Exchange, played traditional Indian music on sitar during a cultural showcase. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  º Veterans and military members    We are proud that approximately 2,100 NextEra Energy  employees –""
""about 12% of our workforce – are veterans,  representing all branches of our nation’s armed forces. From  engineering and communications to nuclear science and  more, NextEra Energy offers veterans opportunities to transfer  their leadership and other skills to help the future of clean and  renewable energy as part of our company.   º Employee resource groups  Our 14 ERGs are voluntary, employee-led groups made up   of employees who partner together to develop personal and  professional skills,""
""each  other to organize engaging and impactful gatherings.  Sustainability Report   |   30 Employee Luke Zeck, at White Hills Wind Energy Center in Mohave County, Ariz., is a Purple Heart recipient and among approximately 2,100 veterans who work for   NextEra Energy. In 2023, the U.S. Department of Labor again recognized  NextEra Energy with the HIRE Vets Platinum Medallion award  for our excellence in recruiting, hiring and retaining veterans.   Our past five years of Equal Employment""
""Opportunity (EEO-1)  reports are posted on the Sustainability Resources page on  the investor relations section of our website.    About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Staff coordination is conducted with respect and sensitivity to   cultural concerns or needs.      Tribal community""
""support is provided by working with tribes to  identify national, regional and local community needs. NextEra  Energy provides support through a scholarship program for  Native American youth, administered by the American Indian  Graduate Center, now known as Native Forward. From 2021- 2023, 45 scholarships, totaling $225,000, were awarded  to qualified students in energy, environmental and cultural  resource disciplines.  » NextEra Energy Foundation giving   The NextEra Energy Foundation, a""
""Our tribal and Indigenous relations team supports all NextEra  Energy Resources and FPL projects, including wind, solar,  battery storage, electric transmission and natural gas  infrastructure. We work proactively with tribes and Indigenous  peoples to avoid and resolve issues, support economic and  community needs, educate internal personnel and consultants,  and support energy development interests.     In 2023, NextEra Energy Resources staff were invited to  the Cherokee Nation of Oklahoma’s""
""project participation are available to  tribes throughout a project’s development, including site visits,  cultural surveys, construction monitoring and special studies.  Sustainability Report   |   31 NextEra Energy Resources employees join Principal Chief Chuck Hoskin Jr. of the Cherokee Nation for his inauguration ceremony in Oklahoma. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks""
""and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO          strong, multi-faceted partnerships with environmental           stakeholders to support environmental education,        conservation and research. »    Opportunity – support organizations and programs        that help break down barriers and create opportunities   Our areas of focus are:  »     Innovation – support organizations and programs that            invent, inspire or invest in innovative""
""tools and thinking.   »         Environmental stewardship – develop and support         for under-resourced groups, especially organizations            that focus on science, technology, engineering and      math (STEM) education initiatives.    »         Safety – support organizations and programs that        reinforce our commitment to the safety of customers,            employees and the public.      Founded in 1987, the NextEra Energy Foundation has  steadily increased levels of giving while""
""strategic partnerships with organizations  to help advance these programs. These strategic partnerships  include the American Heart Association, American Red   Cross, Florida College Access Network, Habitat for Humanity,  among others. Sustainability Report   |   32 New Habitat for Humanity homeowner Diana Mores gets a table saw lesson from NextEra Energy Executive Vice President Mark Lemasney, while FPL Vice President Pam Rauch  looks on. Habitat for Humanity is one of many community""
""organizations supported by the NextEra Energy Foundation. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  we have donated more than $44,000 in wind kits to teachers  to enhance their STEM classroom instruction.    » Employee community support  Our employees support many nonprofits and local""
""support  students from all backgrounds and income strata. We  recognize that an employee base with broad skills and  creativity will best address the energy needs of today’s world.      We focus on efforts that benefit communities in need, with a  particular focus on STEM. These programs help to develop  students for future success while building a highly skilled  workforce for NextEra Energy and other companies. Students  are introduced to a world of possibilities and placed on an  educational""
""portions of the grant will support a robotics curriculum.    In Florida, the annual Youth in Energy Academy, exposes  students to careers in the energy industry and teaches them  how to build a small generator.   We also focus on supporting educators. In 2023, we hosted a  number of development opportunities at Manatee Lagoon – An  FPL Eco-Discovery Center to inspire educators to learn new  engaging ways to incorporate STEM into their lesson plans.  Some examples include an annual sustainability""
""symposium  and a STEM workshop, where more than 30 teachers learned  how to build underwater robotics using PVC pipes, propellers  and circuit boards in a free kit. In Oklahoma, our STEM teacher  resources include custom wind kits. Over the past three years,  Sustainability Report   |   33 White Castle High School in Louisiana received a $50,000 Classroom Makeover grant from the NextEra Energy Foundation to support STEM education. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s""
""electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Also as part of Power to Care, employees and their families  participated in a remote project, assembling hygiene kits from  their work and home locations in Colorado, Florida, Iowa,  Massachusetts, Missouri, New Hampshire, Oklahoma, Texas,  Washington, D.C., and Wisconsin.    One of our biggest""
""community projects every year is our  annual week-long Power to Care program where we volunteer  to make a difference. During the 2024 event, more than   900 employees, retirees, family members and friends  volunteered in communities across Florida and in Houston   and San Francisco.   » Customer care  FPL remains committed to meet Florida’s growing electricity  needs by delivering cost-effective, reliable energy from a  diverse array of sources for approximately 5.9 million customer  accounts""
""or more than 12 million people across Florida. In  2023, FPL’s smart capital investments and relentless focus on  diversifying its energy mix helped keep residential customer  bills below the national average.     Still, we know there are customers in need and we work  closely with our customers experiencing hardship. We offer  several programs designed to provide support. As an example,  FPL’s Care to Share program has provided financial support  to customers in times of crisis, raising more""
""than $33 million  since 1994 to help Florida families pay their electric bills.  For decades, FPL has worked with hundreds of agencies to  facilitate payment assistance for qualified customers.   We also added a feature to Care to Share, administered by  The Salvation Army and our community partners, to help   fund electrical repairs to storm-damaged homes of   qualifying customers.     FPL also offers programs and tools designed to educate our  customers about energy efficiency and help them""
""monitor  and reduce electricity use. Programs such as our FPL Energy  Analyzer on our mobile app and the FPL Energy Manager  empower customers and enable them to analyze, track and  better understand their energy usage. In 2023, FPL helped  customers with more than 87,000 in-home energy audits   and online or phone surveys to help them better manage   how they consume energy. We also provide customers   with a personalized plan of energy-saving tips and  recommendations customized to their""
""particular usage  patterns. This includes programs and rebates that may   be available for added savings.    Sustainability Report   |   34 Volunteers spent Power to Care day in 2024 in Sarasota, Fla., building a meditation garden and planting landscaping, among other projects. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A""
""and  identify capable diverse-owned businesses to strengthen   our supply chain.  FPL’s demand-side management efforts through 2023 resulted  in a cumulative summer peak reduction of more than 5,500  MW and an estimated cumulative energy savings of about  100,000 gigawatt-hours (GWh). This has eliminated the need  to build approximately 67 new 100-MW generating units.    As demand for electricity continues to escalate, NextEra  Energy Resources is supporting the growing needs of C&I  customers""
""for low-cost, fast-to-deploy clean energy solutions.  We assist our C&I and utility customers in developing,  executing and achieving their energy goals by deploying  renewables and storage. We also provide energy efficiency  services, renewable energy certificates, retail and wholesale  supply, and more. Using tools, such as NextEra 360™ Energy  Management Software, we help organizations turn data into  actionable opportunities to improve operational efficiency,  reduce costs and unlock""
""Report   |   35 Construction at Chicot Solar Energy Center in Lake Village, Ark. * These dollars are not cumulative since one supplier may fit into more than one category.   About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Sustainability Report   |   36 We are looking for small and diverse""
""extends to our  suppliers through both the NextEra Energy Supplier Code  of Conduct and our contract language. We work with our  suppliers to ensure that our equipment, including components,  is produced without forced labor. Our contracts require that our solar panel and battery supplies,  including components, be manufactured without the use  of forced labor. Our contracts also include a commitment  from our solar panel and battery suppliers to maintain a  strict non-forced labor compliance""
""program and document  the supply chain from raw materials to finished products.  We also hired an independent third party to review our solar  panel and battery suppliers’ manufacturing and supply chain  traceability documents to help confirm that our products are  manufactured without forced labor. Company operations  do not interfere with employees’ freedom of association  and collective bargaining. We are committed to continued  compliance with those laws and the rights of Indigenous""
""Resources operates numerous renewables  and battery storage projects, we paid $80.3 million in property  taxes. We also paid $31.8 million in California. These taxes are  an example of the local economic impact that our investments  can bring.  In addition to supporting communities where we operate  through taxes, NextEra Energy bolsters the economy by  supplying energy-related products and services. One example  announced in 2023 is a solar project in Kentucky. The first  phase of NextEra""
""Energy Resources’ Sebree Solar Energy  Center will provide Nucor Corp. with 250 MW of renewable  energy. Construction on phase one, which began in 2024  using American-made Nucor steel, is scheduled to be  completed in 2025. Over its 30-year lifespan, the facility is  projected to contribute approximately $30 million in additional  tax revenue, which can be used for roads, schools and other  public services.  Nucor Corp. representatives and other stakeholders participate in NextEra Energy""
""Resources’ groundbreaking for the Sebree Solar Energy Center in Robards, Ky. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Sustainability Report   |   37 º Job creation  NextEra Energy’s investments also bring jobs. In Florida, FPL’s  PoweringFlorida™ team has worked for more than a decade""
""with community and Florida economic development leaders to  help nearly 300 companies locate or expand in Florida. Those  companies created or added more than 48,000 total jobs and  invested more than $6 billion in our communities. Additionally,  those job creation projects represent a potential 500+ MW in  new energy load for FPL. In 2023, PoweringFlorida helped establish 23 economic  development projects that stand to create 3,126 jobs,  more than $1.5 billion in capital investments and 88 MW""
""startups within cybersecurity, data and AI, carbon-emissions  reduction and energy transition, the 2025 seed competition  will provide the winners with the opportunity to receive a seed  capital investment of up to $1 million and the potential to work  with NextEra Energy and its subsidiaries to innovate for a  better tomorrow. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and""
""opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Sustainability Report   |   38 Cool Springs Solar Energy Center in Bainbridge, Ga. Governance About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Our proven track record of delivering strong financial and""
""and stakeholders. For more details,  please refer to the NextEra Energy 2024 Proxy Statement on  the investor relations section of NextEra Energy’s website.  The proxy includes a summary of director qualifications and  experience, and the company has enhanced its disclosure  of board member skills and gender in a matrix format by  individual director.     » Sustainability oversight  Our approach to sustainability engages all levels of the  company from the board of directors to our employees.""
""Governance          Our approach to sustainability  engages all levels of the company  from the board of directors to   our employees. Sustainability Report   |   39 Canyon Wind Energy Center in Snyder, Texas About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Sustainable business practices are""
""embedded throughout the  company as we execute our long-term strategy.      Board of directors – We have fully integrated sustainability  into our business strategy. Our board of directors, led by our  chairman, prioritizes governance of sustainability-related risks  and opportunities. During each board meeting, we review  our performance, assess key risks and discuss business  objectives. We also have an annual session dedicated to  evaluating and validating our overall management strategy.""
""The board’s oversight of sustainability, which is exercised  through the board’s committees and in particular using a  framework led by its governance & nominating committee,  includes discussions of physical environmental risks, such as  hurricanes, emissions-related government policies, incentives  and regulations, emissions-reduction initiatives, renewable  energy, trends and business plans, and emerging clean energy  technologies, among others.    Chief executive officer (CEO) – Our chairman""
""and CEO  has ultimate responsibility for the company’s sustainability  performance and long-term success.  Executive leadership – Our leaders are driving our long-  term growth plan and implementing our sustainability vision.   They are accountable for achieving specific sustainability   goals while delivering long-term value. Our executive  management team manages sustainability-related risks and  opportunities daily, ensuring their effect on individual business  units is addressed.""
""Sustainability executive steering committee and  sustainability council – Comprised of key business unit  representatives across the organization, the council focuses  on proactively addressing sustainability issues and policies   and driving strategic initiatives across the company. The  council reports to, and receives feedback from, the executive  steering committee quarterly. Twice a year, the executive  steering committee chair reports to the sustainability lead  team, made up of the""
""executive vice president of finance   Sustainability Report   |   40 and chief financial officer (CFO), executive vice president and   chief legal, environmental and federal regulatory affairs officer,   and executive vice president of human resources and  corporate services.     Armando Pimentel, president and CEO of FPL, John Ketchum, chairman and CEO of NextEra Energy, and Rebecca Kujawa, president and CEO of NextEra Energy Resources,  address employees during a town hall. About this report""
""Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO         » Eleven of 12 directors are independent.       » Balance of new and experienced directors.     » Tenure of director nominees averages 5.5 years.       » Four of 12 directors are women.       » Two of 12 directors are ethnically diverse.           » Specified""
""retirement age for directors required.      » Average age of directors is 62. CUSTOMER VALUE  PROPOSITION OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE SAFETY ENVIRONMENTAL EVENTS Decarbonization team – This team helps strategize and  monitor NextEra Energy’s progress toward eliminating CO2  emissions from our operations. Its primary functions are to   act as the company’s leadership hub for executing, and when  feasible, analyzing our plans to deliver a carbon-free future;  coordinate feedback and ensure alignment""
""of these plans  across all business units; represent these plans both internally  and externally; and identify and implement new solutions and  opportunities for us to reach our goal.     Employees – By delivering on their goals and objectives, our  employees are key to driving our company’s sustainability  efforts and delivering value to all stakeholders.     » Board committee oversight Each board committee oversees different areas of  opportunities and risks related to sustainability and""
""communicates key findings to the full board. In particular, the  board’s governance & nominating committee is specifically  tasked with overseeing the company’s material risks that are  environmental or social in nature, along with its sustainability  efforts and initiatives, reviewing its environmental, social and  governance (ESG) framework, and evaluating ESG trends and  developments as they relate to its business activities. Audit committee         » Oversees compliance with legal and""
""regulatory  requirements and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics   » Oversees external and internal auditors       » Oversees preparation of financial statements in  accordance with generally accepted accounting principles  (GAAP) standards   » Reviews and discusses with management NextEra  Energy’s major financial risk exposures        » Ensures that major risks identified are reviewed by the  board or a board committee Compensation alignment Sustainability Report   |   41 Senior executive""
""compensation is tied directly to performance that drives long-term shareholder value. Current senior  executive compensation metrics include: 2024 Governance highlights To emphasize the delivery of a  sustainable, outstanding customer  value proposition, compensation  metrics include: »     O&M costs per retail MWh »      Capital expenditures »  Service reliability »   Customer satisfaction scores These metrics are intended to  drive the sustainable delivery of: »        Low bills »     High""
""reliability »      Clean energy solutions »        Outstanding customer service To support continued efficient and  reliable delivery of clean energy to  our customers, operational metrics  include: »   Availability metrics across the         generation fleets »     Reliability metrics for         transmission and distribution Safety is a company priority  because people are our most  important asset, and safety is a  leading indicator of our operational  performance. »         The number of""
""OSHA      recordable incidents is included        to emphasize the company’s      focus on a zero-injury          workplace and incentivize       senior executive leadership     on safety issues. To support our commitment to the environment, metrics include: »      Achieving zero significant environmental violations across all          of our businesses About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities""
""Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Governance and nominating committee      » Oversees board composition, refreshment and diversity         » Oversees material risks that are environmental or social in nature;  provides oversight of the company’s sustainability efforts and  initiatives; reviews the company’s ESG framework; and evaluates  ESG trends and developments as they relate to the company’s  business activities""
""the board    » Oversees evaluation of the board  Finance and investment committee    » Oversees capital spending and financing plans         » Reviews financing strategies, financial policies and the use of  financial instruments, including derivatives         » Reviews energy trading and marketing operations       » Recommends annual dividend policy     » Reviews the company’s risk management activities and exposures  related to its energy trading and marketing operations Nuclear committee ""
""» Oversees safety, reliability and quality of nuclear operations        » Reviews long-term strategies and plans related to nuclear   operations Compensation committee         » Approves compensation program, including incentive compensation  goals tied to sustainability and other goals         » Approves selection of corporate peer group for compensation  benchmarking     » Assesses risks related to employee compensation programs Sustainability Report   |   42 NextEra Energy board   of""
""directors, as of   November 2024.    Row 1, from left:   Nicole S. Arnaboldi   James L. Camaren   Naren K. Gursahaney  Kirk S. Hachigian Row 2, from left:   Maria G. Henry   John W. Ketchum  Amy B. Lane (lead director)  Geoffrey S. Martha Row 3, from left:   David L. Porges  Deborah L. “Dev” Stahlkopf   John A. Stall  Darryl L. Wilson About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and""
""opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  » Incentive framework  NextEra Energy’s incentive compensation structure promotes  our goal of achieving a carbon-free future. The annual incentive  plan promotes the attainment of progress toward that goal.     Annual incentives and the company’s performance shares  awarded to senior executives also have goals tied to adjusted  return on equity (ROE) and adjusted earnings per share (EPS)  growth. NextEra""
""Energy will only achieve our adjusted   ROE and EPS growth goals by executing on our business  strategy to deploy renewables at NextEra Energy Resources  and executing our cost-effective solar generation expansion   at FPL, which directly incentivizes our decarbonization goal.  Completing the development and construction of our wind,  solar and battery storage projects on schedule and on budget,  as well as adding significant new wind, solar and battery  storage opportunities, also are vitally""
""important steps to  reaching this goal.      In addition to the goals in our annual incentive plan and  our performance shares that incentivize reaching our  decarbonization goal, our executive compensation program  includes goals tied to sustainability performance, a variety of  which have been included as compensation metrics since  2001. For example, a portion of executive compensation is  tied to customer value, employee safety and compliance with  environmental regulations.   » Public""
""customer  value proposition through smart capital investments.     At NextEra Energy Resources, local, state and federal  regulations govern every aspect of our renewable energy  development business. Constructive political engagement has  supported NextEra Energy’s efforts to drive overall renewable  development within the U.S., advance our corporate strategies  and create long-term shareholder value.     The company believes our lobbying efforts are consistent  with our corporate values and""
""objective of being the world’s  leading clean energy company, which necessarily involves an  evolving balance of considerations, including achieving our  emissions-reduction targets. To the extent consistent with our  objective, we aim for our lobbying and participation in trade  associations to substantially align with pursuing strategies that  are consistent with our goals.    We have established a management political expenditure  committee (PEC), whose membership consists of senior""
""Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  » Shareholder engagement    We engage with shareholders on a regular basis and provide  information through multiple channels. Our shareholder  engagement efforts allow us to better understand our  shareholders’ priorities and perspectives and enable us to""
""effectively address the issues that matter the most to our  shareholders.  » Stakeholder engagement    NextEra Energy’s stakeholders encompass employees,  customers, government/agency officials, investors, rating  agencies, shareholders, suppliers, consultants, environmental  organizations, media, business partners and nonprofit  organizations. These stakeholders have a vested interest in   our company’s operations, as well as management of risks   and economic, environmental and social issues.""
""Sustainability Report   |   44 Our board’s governance and nominating committee,  composed entirely of independent directors, oversees our  Political Engagement Policy. Among other requirements,  the policy establishes clear accountability for all political  engagement and for governance and nominating committee  review of all political contributions made by the company,  including significant trade association dues and all  contributions to any entities organized under 501(c)(4) or  Section 527""
""of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.     We post all federal and state lobbying expenditures, significant  trade association dues and contributions made by the  NextEra Energy political action committee, among other  pertinent information on our website. The policy also requires  our executive vice president, chief legal, environmental and  federal regulatory affairs officer to receive and report to the  governance and nominating committee the status of annual  compliance certifications from our""
""Customer care center  » Direct mail   » Employee and customer surveys         » Executive contact program     » Government relations  » Open houses   » Outreach meetings     » Shareholder meetings  » Social media  » Speaking engagements  » Sustainability reporting analysis     » Web   » FPL mobile app        » Email J.T. Young, FPL vice president and general manager, Northwest Florida, addresses more than 500 community and business leaders at the 2024 FPL Northwest Florida Economic  Symposium in""
""Miramar Beach, Fla. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  FPL crews work to restore power for customers after a major storm, reinforcing reliability across the grid. Sustainability Report   |   45 Risks and Opportunities About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s""
""electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Our corporate risk management committee provides  oversight and support for our risk management activities.  The committee consists of officers and key personnel from  across the company. The committee meets four times per  year and discusses risks and related mitigation activities,  and performs""
""The corporate risk management committee has established  relationships within the risk community and continuously   works to ensure our risk program stays current and relevant.  We engage in enterprise risk management roundtables with  companies within and outside the utility industry.   Risks and Opportunities We also have an exposure management committee, which has  policy oversight of the risk profiles of our energy marketing and  trading business.      This committee meets monthly and is""
""chaired by the CRO. The  exposure management committee reviews market, credit and  operational issues associated with energy trading and reports  at least annually to the finance and investment committee of  the board of directors. It also reports to the audit committee  on matters of internal control and financial reporting.    Our investment decisions are rooted in realistic assumptions  with appropriate sensitivity analyses, as needed, to ensure a  data-driven decision-making process. The""
""process is intended  to ensure that significant risks have been identified and  mitigated to the greatest extent possible.  Significant investment decisions are reviewed and approved  by NextEra Energy’s operating committee, which is comprised  of all senior executives and other executives from the various  functional departments within each of our businesses.  Depending on the nature and amount of the investment,  additional authorizations, up to and including approval by the  board’s finance""
""and investment committee and the full NextEra  Energy board of directors, may be required.             We are committed to  safeguarding our power networks  and information from intrusions that  could cause harm to our customers  or operations. Sustainability Report   |   46 Corporate Risk Management Committee Marketing and  Communications Legal Nuclear Accounting  and Disclosure Energy Trading Treasury Regulatory Power Delivery Human Resources Business  Development About this report Appendices""
""NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  integrated into our risk-assessment process, and potential  projections for more frequent storms would be a multiplier  for this risk category but not necessarily broken out as an  incremental, separate effect. We also recognize that weather  changes may affect parts of our""
""business in different ways.  We provide more details on our approach to managing  environmental risks and our strategy under Environmental  Stewardship in this report.      » Storms, floods and other natural disasters   Physical risks are reviewed as part of our corporate risk  management process, including the risks, the mitigants and  our preparation for natural disasters, such as hurricanes,  coastal flooding and sea levels, and increasingly severe  storms. Changes in weather also can affect""
""NextEra Energy  Resources’ facilities across the country. Examples in regions  outside of Florida include wildfires, tornadoes, droughts,  extreme temperatures, icing events and earthquakes. Our  expertise and history of managing such natural disasters,  especially hurricanes in Florida, provide us with the skills and  capabilities to remain focused on safety, execution and the  importance of providing an essential service to our customers  during these events.    FPL continues to build a""
""stronger, smarter and more storm- resilient energy grid that improves reliability in good weather  and bad, and enables faster power restoration following  extreme weather events. We were one of the early adopters  of smart grid devices. Today, FPL has approximately 6 million  smart meters and more than 200,000 intelligent devices.  We collect about 1 billion data points daily from these   devices and use predictive analytics and algorithms that we  developed and patented. The data is used to""
""identify potential  problems so we can fix them before our customers are  interrupted and crews are dispatched.   Investments in our regulated utilities are guided through a well- established integrated resource planning process to determine  the amount and timing of future generation needed to meet  projected growth in energy load and demand. Many factors  are incorporated into this planning process. Different options  are evaluated, considering system economics, forecasted  electric power""
""demand, demand-side management, fuel  prices, potential future environmental policies and the  integration of cost-effective, clean and reliable generation,  including solar and battery storage solutions. Our capital  allocation process at FPL is centered on enhancing the   overall customer value proposition to deliver long-term  customer benefits.    Review of NextEra Energy Resources’ investment decisions  begins with thorough due diligence by subject matter experts  from nearly 20 key""
""functional areas. These subject matter  experts, who bring deep experience, help identify and assess  the commercial, financial and operational feasibility of new  project investment opportunities. We also have processes  in place to ensure we continue to learn from unforeseen  challenges to improve future capital allocation decisions.     FPL and NextEra Energy Resources hold annual strategy  sessions with business unit leadership across each  organization to identify and review long-term""
""disruption  from a weather event is a long-standing risk that we have  Sustainability Report   |   47 A stronger and smarter energy  grid helps FPL prevent outages   and restore power quicker* deployed  ~6 million smart  meters collected daily  ~1 billion   data points installed  215,000+  intelligent devices trimmed  17,000 miles  of vegetation avoided  13 million+  outages hardened  96%  of transmission structures that  are now concrete or steel *Data as of year-end 2023  About this report""
""Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO         » Installing more than 215,000 intelligent devices that  prevent power outages and shorten restoration times by  automatically redirecting power, self-healing and minimizing  customers affected, resulting in more than 13 million  outages avoided since 2011""
""» Using drones equipped with AI, machine learning and  geospatial data so flights are fully autonomous, as well as  developing in-house image recognition software to spot  faulty equipment and prevent outages   As a result of FPL’s smart investments and continuing efforts to  improve the energy grid, we provided the most reliable electric  service in company history in 2023. And over the past two  decades, FPL customers have benefited from a remarkable  45% improvement in reliability.    We have""
""determined that near-term risk to our operations and  facilities, with regards to sea-level rise and flooding, is low.  Our Florida nuclear facilities are elevated 20 feet above sea  level to protect against flooding and extreme storm surge. We  expect to continue to make additional resiliency and reliability  investments over the coming decades to mitigate any potential  impacts to our system.     Mitigation actions taken to date include:        » Installing pumps, flood control structures,""
""monitoring  sensors and raised equipment in high-risk flood zones         » Designing our substation yards to meet the Federal  Emergency Management Agency’s 100-year flood  elevations  » Deploying mobile substations and transformers, along with  other equipment, that can be used to respond to flood or  storm events     » Hardening underground structures and using above  ground equipment in high-risk flood zones Not having to dispatch a vehicle helps reduce our carbon  footprint and operating""
""costs. These intelligent devices  can automatically redirect power, self-heal and lower  service disruptions for customers. Providing better reliability  contributes to our overall customer satisfaction.      In 2023, PA Consulting honored us with its Outstanding  Resiliency Award, recognizing our work to build a resilient  energy grid that can better withstand day-to-day conditions  and severe weather.     FPL continues to make significant progress in our hardening  journey by building the grid""
""of the future. We expanded our  storm secure underground program, which has now brought  underground power lines to nearly 2,000 neighborhoods  throughout Florida. By minimizing one of the leading causes of  outages — trees and vegetation making contact with overhead  power lines — this program is improving system resiliency  during hurricanes and day-to-day, too.     Undergrounding neighborhood power lines is one of FPL’s  many significant investments in strengthening the energy grid  against""
""severe weather.     The deployment of innovative technology to help prevent  outages and shorten restoration times when outages  occur has enabled FPL to improve reliability and resiliency.  Investments in the FPL system include:   » Hardening or undergrounding power lines to better  withstand higher winds, enhancing service reliability   and resiliency     » Replacing wood transmission line structures with concrete  or steel, maintaining vegetation along more than 17,000  miles of power lines""
""each year and inspecting all 1.3 million  power poles every eight years    Sustainability Report   |   48 Our storm secure underground program has brought underground power lines to  nearly 2,000 neighborhoods throughout Florida. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO     » Deploying""
""innovative technology at locations more  susceptible to storm surge, such as a temporary AquaDam  we installed at one of FPL’s coastal substations in   north Florida  Our experience and history of preparing and responding to  hurricanes and other natural disasters in Florida provide us  with the skills and capabilities to remain focused on safety,  execution and the importance of providing an essential  toppled by the hurricane’s destructive winds. In addition to  Idalia, the FPL team responded""
""to several other unusual  weather events in 2023, including:    » In April, 25.6 inches of rain fell on Broward County in 12  hours, causing significant flooding and complicating power  restoration.          » In June, severe weather and flooding affected 80,000  customers in Northwest Florida.         » In November, a rare non-tropical low-pressure system  affected more than 250,000 customers in the Florida  Peninsula, all of whom were essentially restored within one  day of the storm exiting""
""Florida.    Named or unnamed, each of the storms FPL faced in 2023  further highlighted the importance of strengthening the grid  to ensure its resilience against Mother Nature’s worst. Our  investments helped us respond faster and reduced outage  times, while also helping avoid significant economic loss  throughout FPL’s service area and across the state.     » Emergency preparedness    Preparedness and crisis management are part of what we do  as a company. We monitor and prepare for the""
""lessen the potential effect  to our customers and company — both in the short term and  long term.   service to our customers during extreme weather events. Our  storm-hardening investments continue to create value for our  customers. In 2023, we responded to Hurricane Idalia, which  affected nearly 200,000 FPL customers after making landfall  as a major hurricane in Florida’s Big Bend region.     For FPL’s restoration workforce of 12,000 people, Idalia  brought a variety of challenging""
""conditions, including trees  Sustainability Report   |   49 Employees Brad Rettig and Jennifer Walker participate in FPL’s annual storm drill to prepare for hurricanes and other emergencies. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  As part of the company’s commitment to preparedness, FPL""
""conducts an annual week-long storm drill, which tests the  response of employees to a hypothetical hurricane. These  drills, which traditionally include local first responders, as  well as state and federal officials, provide opportunities to  test our processes, train our teams, and demonstrate our  commitment to continuous improvement and our local and state  partnerships, which are critical to returning life to normal in the  aftermath of a storm. Every year, our drills push us to improve""
""our response to both natural and man-made disasters. During  the simulated exercises, FPL employees are evaluated on  response and restoration efforts related to operations, logistics,  communications and customer service, among other areas.      The FPL Distribution Control Center is a state-of-the-art,  Category 5-rated building that enhances FPL’s ability to   respond to natural disasters, as well as efficiently monitor  thousands of smart devices and other equipment around the  clock to""
""prevent outages before they occur and to quickly  respond and restore power when they do happen.      FPL has improved storm preparation and response   capabilities by:           » Hardening or strengthening nearly all main power lines  serving critical community facilities and services, such  as police and fire stations, hospitals and 911 centers. In  addition to being more storm-resilient, main power lines  that have been hardened perform 50% better in day-to-day  operations than those that""
""are not hardened, which means  fewer outages     » Improving communication systems and capitalizing on   smart grid technology to ensure efficient and accurate  restoration information is delivered to customers       » Providing customers the ability to directly report a downed  power line using smartphone technology, which speeds  efforts to restore power  » Nuclear safety   Our nuclear fleet is a critical part of our generation mix and  one of the most cost-effective fleets in the industry,""
""driven  by a focus on innovation, lowering costs and commitment  to excellence. Nuclear safety is paramount to our business  operations, and we have robust safety measures across  our nuclear fleet. The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission  maintains and tracks a set of performance indicators as  objective measures of nuclear safety performance for  commercial U.S. nuclear plants.     These indicators monitor the performance of initiating events,  safety systems, fission product barrier integrity,""
""emergency  preparedness, occupational and public radiation safety,  and physical protection security. Our plants are designed to  withstand physical attacks, as well as earthquakes, hurricanes  and other natural events stronger than ever recorded in their  respective regions.     In collaboration with the nuclear industry, we created regional  response centers that house vital equipment, located away  from nuclear sites, that can be brought into any of our nuclear  plants in response to a""
""natural disaster at a site. We have  made significant upgrades to our nuclear facilities, including:        » Installed high-capacity pumps to provide additional backup  cooling water for safety systems          » Pre-staged additional backup equipment, such as diesel  generators, on-site and located several additional feet  above sea level      » Confirmed the ability of our plants to withstand extreme  natural events, such as earthquakes, flooding and  hurricanes        Sustainability Report""
""|   50 Employee Derek Hung is one of our nuclear engineers at the Point Beach Nuclear  Power Plant in Two Rivers, Wis. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Our highly trained plant operators are empowered to safely  shut down the plant in a controlled and deliberate process,  if""
""necessary. In addition, we require one full week of training  every six weeks for plant operators to prove their ability to  safely operate the plant in a variety of worst-case scenarios  that include earthquakes, severe storms, flooding, loss of  power and loss of reactor core cooling.     » Cybersecurity    We take security seriously at NextEra Energy — both at  our facilities and online. We are committed to safeguarding  our power networks and information from intrusions that  could cause""
""results of regular  cybersecurity reviews and information security governance.  NextEra Energy’s board of directors receives an annual  cybersecurity report from the company’s chief information  officer and vice president of IT infrastructure and cybersecurity.   Sustainability Report   |   51 Employees Ray Naranjo, left, and Malcolm Richardson participate in the company’s 2023 cyber security drill. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental""
""stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Awards and recognitions Sustainability Report   |   52 Employee Gaby Vazquez works at our Distribution Control Center, a state-of-the-art, Category 5-rated building in West Palm Beach, Fla., that enhances FPL’s abilities to respond to natural disasters. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader""
""Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  2024:   » NextEra Energy was once again recognized on Fortune’s list of “Most Admired Companies” in  the electric and gas utilities industry.           » NextEra Energy was named to Newsweek’s list of America’s Greatest Workplaces, as well as  its lists for America’s Most Responsible Companies and America’s Greatest""
""Well-Being for advancing employee well-being through comprehensive,  innovative benefits and initiatives. This is the third year in a row that NextEra Energy has  received this award.2:     » NextEra Energy was ranked first for Best CEO, Best CFO, Best Investor Relations program,  Best ESG program, Best Company Board and Best Investor/Analyst Event in the utility sector  on the Institutional Investor’s All-America Executive team 2024 survey.  2023:          » NextEra Energy received the U.S.""
""category winners. FPL was recognized in  environmental, customer service and billing, substation and training categories.     » FPL won PA Consulting Group’s ReliabilityOne™ Outstanding Reliability award in the  Southeast Region for the 10th year in a row.      » NextEra Energy Resources received the Outstanding Lessee of the Year Award from the  Colorado State Land Board for demonstrating superior stewardship, working cooperatively  with staff and helping generate revenue for beneficiaries,""
""including public schools. Awards and recognitions Sustainability Report   |   53 About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Sustainability Report   |   54 The Empire State Transmission Line in New York Conclusion About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader""
""Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO      We are committed to doing our  part to deliver a clean energy future  that provides value for our customers,  supports our communities and  empowers our teams. We are making long-term strategic investments to build a  business that is resilient and able to deliver for customers  and shareholders alike. NextEra Energy’s""
""goal to reach a  carbon-emissions-free future is built on a foundation of  providing cost-effective solutions for our customers. We  recognize that achieving this goal is contingent upon several  key assumptions, including the ability to do so without any  incremental costs to our customers.     We believe NextEra Energy has the best team in our industry  to accomplish our goal. Our FPL team is dedicated to  delivering reliable, low-cost electricity to help make Florida an  even better place to""
""live. Our NextEra Energy Resources team  brings an entrepreneurial mindset to every endeavor, so we  can help every customer be even more competitive in their  own industries.     The role of power in the national economy has never been  more vital. The market opportunity, which began years ago  Sustainability Report   |   55 Conclusion Dania Beach Battery Energy Storage Center in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. as an effort to modernize existing power infrastructure, has  expanded to include an urgent""
""need to power returning  industries and emerging demand for the digital economy.  Sitting in the center of this market evolution is NextEra Energy.  We are committed to doing our part to deliver a clean energy  future that provides value for our customers, supports our  communities and empowers our teams.  About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and""
""recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Sustainability Report   |   56 Appendix A Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Metrics SASB topic SASB accounting metric 2022 2023 Comments Greenhouse gas  emissions and  energy resource  planning 1.     Gross global scope 1 emissions 2.       Percentage covered under  emissions-limiting regulations 3.     Percentage covered under  emissions-reporting regulations 1.    41,354,723 metric tons CO2e 2.  0.73% 3.        100%""
""1. 41,323,533 metric tons carbon  dioxide equivalent (CO2e) 2.     0.21% 3.        100% NextEra Energy conducts business under regulatory regimes that require CO2 rather than CO2e reporting. Number differs from  other reported areas due to reporting in CO2e vs. CO2. CO2e figure includes emissions data for NextEra Energy-owned power  plant sites, as well as joint ownership sites. Data for the joint ownership sites were adjusted to account for the company’s  ownership share only. Greenhouse gas""
""(GHG) emissions  associated with power deliveries 2,441,289 metric tons CO2e 2,008,215 metric tons CO2e Values represent additional CO2e from contracted power purchase agreement and power purchased to serve FPL customers. Discussion of long-term and short-  term strategy or plan to manage  scope 1 emissions, emissions  reduction target, and analysis of  performance against those targets Discussion   within report Discussion   within report See discussion in the following sections of this report:""
""A letter from our chairman and CEO  NextEra Energy: America’s electricity leader  Environmental stewardship - Carbon footprint reduction  Appendix B: Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)   1. Number of customers served in  markets with renewable portfolio  standards (RPS) 2.  Percentage fulfillment of RPS  target by market See comments See comments FPL serves approximately 5.9 million customer accounts in Florida. Florida does not have a state RPS.    NextEra Energy""
""Resources is a wholesale power generator for customers across the U.S. that includes utilities, retail electricity  providers, power cooperatives, municipal electric providers and large industrial companies.    NextEra Energy Resources operates in 15 states with mandatory RPS, four states with clean energy standards, three states with  clean energy goals and an additional six states with RPS.1 Renewable  portfolio goals  and air quality Air emissions of the following  pollutants: 1.""
""Nitrogen oxides (NOx),   excluding nitrous oxide (N2O) 2.       Sulfur oxides (SOx) 3.  Particulate matter (PM 10) 4.   Lead (Pb)  5.   Mercury (Hg) 1. 8,285 metric tons 2. 1,017 metric tons 3.       671 metric tons 4.      0.26 metric tons 5.     0.03 metric tons 1.     7,423 metric tons 2.    454 metric tons 3.      667 metric tons 4. 0.03 metric tons 5.  0.01 metric tons Data includes emissions for NextEra Energy-owned power plant sites, as well as joint ownership sites. Data for the joint""
""ownership sites was adjusted to account for the company’s ownership share only. Data does not include emissions from cooling  towers and auxiliary equipment, as this represents emissions that are considered de minimis.  SOx is reported as sulfur dioxide (SO2). NOx and SO2 numbers differ from other reported areas due to reporting in metric tons  versus short tons. Percentage of each in or near areas  of dense population See comments See comments All power plants are near areas of dense population""
""based on the definitions of near and dense. 1)   Source: https://www.dsireusa.org About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Appendix A Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Metrics Sustainability Report   |   57 SASB topic SASB accounting metric 2022 2023 Comments Water""
""management 1.     Total water withdrawn 2.        Total water consumed,  percentage of each in regions of  high- or extremely high-baseline  water stress 1. 7,941,878 thousand cubic  meters; 0.0012% 2. 126,319 thousand cubic  meters; 0.08% 1. 7,900,212  thousand cubic  meters;  0.0010% 2. 114,373 thousand cubic     meters; 0.0716% In 2023, NextEra Energy operated or had ownership share of 25 power generating sites across the U.S. that use water, but only  one site is located in regions of high-""
""or extremely high-water stress.  Nearly 77% of the water we withdrew in 2023 came from saltwater sources. Water metrics reported reflect use for plant  operations and use associated with decommissioning or closure of generating facilities. Water numbers differ from other  reported areas due to the use of thousand cubic meters vs. billions gallons. Number of incidents of non- compliance associated with water  quality and/or quantity permits,  standards and regulations 0 0 Description of water""
""management  risks and discussion of strategy  and practices to mitigate those  risks Description within report Description within report See discussion in the following sections of this report:  Environmental stewardship - Water conservation Coal ash  management Amount of coal combustion  residuals (CCR) generated,  percentage recycled 140,524; 130% 58,642.18; 199.6% In 2022 and 2023, NextEra Energy did not operate any facilities that generated CCR but has a co-owner share of two that do.  In""
""addition, NextEra Energy has been beneficially reusing/recycling CCR material at a facility that no longer generates CCR  material, resulting in a greater than 100% recycling number. Total number of CCR  impoundments, broken down by  hazard potential classification and  structural integrity assessment 4 4 NextEra Energy has interest in four CCR impoundments, with two of these impoundments undergoing closure. While there are  three surface impoundments that are regulated under the federal CCR""
""regulation found at 40 CFR 257.50-107, there are four  impoundments that meet the broader definition in 40 CFR 257.2 referenced within the SASB standards.    Each has been ranked using the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) hazard potential classification. There are one Low  Hazard, two Significant Hazard and one High Hazard. All four had the highest structural integrity assessment rating of  satisfactory in 2022 and 2023. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity""
""leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Appendix A Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Metrics Sustainability Report   |   58 SASB topic SASB accounting metric 2022 2023 Comments Energy   affordability Average retail electric rate for 1.      residential 2.  commercial 3.   industrial customers FPL retail electric rates: 1.""
""$0.1345/kilowatt-hour (kWh) 2.  $0.1075/kWh 3.  $0.0857/kWh FPL Retail electric rates: 1.       $0.1492/kWh 2.  $0.1138/kWh 3. $0.0867/kWh Typical monthly electric bill for residential customers for 1.       500 kWh 2.      1,000 kWh of electricity delivered  per month FPL: 1.   $64.97 2.       $120.67 FPL: 1. $72.57 2.       $135.40 Discussion of impact of external  factors on customer affordability of  electricity, including the economic  conditions of the service territory Discussion   within""
""report Discussion   within report See discussion in the following sections of this report:  NextEra Energy: America’s electricity leader  Employees, customers and communities - Customer care  Employees, customers and communities - Economic development About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and""
""CEO  Appendix A Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Metrics Sustainability Report   |   59 SASB topic SASB accounting metric 2022 2023 Comments Workforce   health and  safety 1.  total recordable incident rate  (TRIR) 2.       fatality rate 3.        near miss frequency rate (NMFR) 1.      0.31 2. 0.00 3. NA 1.   0.24  2. 0.00 3. NA NextEra Energy does not track NMFR in a comparable manner as SASB guidelines. OSHA recordable rate (TRIR) is the metric used in senior leadership""
""compensation goals; goal for senior leadership is top-decile  performance. End-use  efficiency and  demand Percentage of electric utility revenues from rate structures that 1.   are decoupled 2.        contain a lost revenue  adjustment mechanism (LRAM) NA NA Percentage of electric load served  by smart grid technology 99% 99% Customer electricity savings from  efficiency measures by market Discussion   within report Discussion   within report See discussion in the following sections of this""
""report:  NextEra Energy: America’s electricity leader  Employees, customers and communities - Customer care Nuclear safety  and emergency  management Total number of nuclear power  units, broken down by U.S. Nuclear  Regulatory Commission (NRC)  Action All eight nuclear power units are  ‘licensee response’ classification  under U.S. NRC Action All eight nuclear power units are  ‘licensee response’ classification  under U.S. NRC Action U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Action Matrix Description""
""Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Appendix A Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Metrics Sustainability Report   |   60 SASB topic SASB accounting metric 2022 2023 Comments Grid resiliency 1.    System Average Interruption  Duration Index (SAIDI) 2.  System Average Interruption""
""Frequency Index (SAIFI) 3. Customer Average Interruption  Duration Index (CAIDI), inclusive  of major event days FPL:  1.  47.1 2. 0.85 3. 55.48 FPL: 1. 44.5 2. 0.71 3. 0.62 Metric is exclusive of major event days and is based on how it’s reported to Florida Public Service Commission (FPSC) for all of  power delivery (transmission and distribution).  About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities""
""Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Appendix B Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Sustainability Report   |   61 Section Recommended disclosure NextEra Energy response Additional information Governance Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. The entire NextEra Energy board of directors, led by our chairman and guided by the board’s governance & nominating committee,""
""has oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities, including their impacts on our strategy. The board assesses the impacts of environmental risks on our future growth, as well as how we prepare our business to adapt to climate-related risks. In particular,  the governance & nominating committee is specifically tasked with overseeing the company’s material risks that are environmental  or social in nature, along with its sustainability efforts and initiatives, reviewing its ESG framework,""
""and evaluating ESG trends and  developments as they relate to its business activities. »   At every scheduled board of directors meeting, the board performs a review of our performance against business objectives and  key risks and opportunities for the company. »   The board also holds an annual strategy session devoted to discussing, debating and validating management’s overall strategy. »         Oversight of climate-related issues includes discussion of physical environmental risks, such as""
""hurricanes, emissions-related  government policies, incentives and regulations, emissions-reduction initiatives, renewable energy, trends and business plans, and  emerging clean energy technologies, among others. Governance - Sustainability oversight Describe management’s role in  assessing and managing climate- related risks and opportunities. Our executive management team is responsible for day-to-day management of climate-related risks and opportunities, as well as their  potential effects on""
""the management and operations of individual business units. Our approach to sustainability engages all levels of  the company from the board of directors to our employees. Sustainable business practices are embedded throughout the company  as we execute our long-term strategy. Governance - Sustainability oversight Risks and opportunities  Strategy Describe the climate-related risks  and opportunities identified over  the short, medium and long term. Climate-related risks and opportunities""
""influence our strategy across all of our businesses over the short term (less than five years),  medium term (five to 10 years) and long term (greater than 10 years). NextEra Energy: America’s electricity leader  Risks and opportunities  Describe the impact of climate-  related risks and opportunities  on the businesses, strategy and  financial planning. As we respond to our customers’ demands for emissions-free and renewable energy, climate-related risks and opportunities have  influenced our""
""financial plan for capital expenditures, acquisitions and revenues.    Climate-related risks and opportunities have influenced our financial plan for capital expenditures, acquisitions and revenues in order  to respond to our customers’ demands for clean and renewable energy. This has influenced our capital plan (executing our significant  renewable energy deployment and grid-hardening initiatives), our acquisitions (acquiring Gulf Power, now known as FPL Northwest  FL), and employing our""
""strategy of advancing affordable, reliable and clean energy and making smart infrastructure investments. All of  these, in turn, affect our revenues (generating revenues on those capital expenditures). 2023 CDP Report Describe the resilience of the  organization’s strategy, taking into  consideration different climate-  related scenarios, including a 2  degree Celsius or lower scenario. Our 2045 zero-carbon-emissions analysis took into account assumptions around economics, policy, regulatory and""
""technology.    According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), 1.5-degree scenario pathways require a completely  decarbonized electricity sector by 2050. By achieving our zero-carbon-emissions goal by 2045, we will contribute to a sustainable,  carbon-free future. 2024 FPL Ten-Year Site Plan  Zero Carbon Blueprint  2023 CDP Report About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities""
""Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Appendix B Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Sustainability Report   |   62 Section Recommended disclosure NextEra Energy response Additional information Risk  management Describe the processes for identifying and assessing climate- related risks. Our approach to risk management starts with a strategic focus on preparedness and a disciplined capital allocation""
""process. Preparedness, crisis planning and risk management are part of our culture. Climate-related risks that may impact our business include current/emerging regulations, technology, legal, market and acute/chronic physical risks. Risks and opportunities Climate-related risks that may impact our business  2023 CDP Report Describe the processes for  managing climate-related risks. Our chairman and CEO, chief risk officer and executive management are responsible for executing our long-term""
""strategy, while also  monitoring climate-related opportunities and risks related to our strategy.  Our corporate risk management committee provides oversight and support for our risk management activities. Risks and opportunities Describe how processes for  identifying, assessing and  managing climate-related risks  are integrated into the overall risk  management process. For the purposes of our risk management process, we do not view climate-related risks as a discrete impact, but rather a""
""potential  stress multiplier to existing risks and opportunities that we monitor very closely and have worked to mitigate for a long time. Risks and opportunities Metrics &  targets Disclose the metrics used to  assess climate-related risks and  opportunities in line with strategy  and risk management processes. The business metrics we use to assess climate-related risks and opportunities include our progress against each business unit’s  goals.  »         At FPL, these include our service""
""reliability metrics, our power plant availability metrics and our progress toward our CO2-    emissions-rate-reduction goal.  »       At NextEra Energy Resources, this includes our progress on completing the development of our wind, solar and storage projects           on schedule and on budget, as well as adding significant new wind and solar opportunities to our backlog to support future      growth.  »      Our CO2-emissions-reduction goal includes clear interim emissions-reduction targets,""
""aiming for a 70% reduction in electric     generation intensity by 2025, 82% by 2030, 87% by 2035, 94% by 2040, and reaching 100% by no later than 2045. We recognize      that achieving this goal is contingent upon several key assumptions, including the ability to do so without any incremental costs to            our customers. Environmental stewardship  Zero Carbon Blueprint  Investor conference  Our commitment to our goal   Risks and opportunities  Disclose scope 1, 2 and, if  appropriate, 3""
""GHG emissions and  related risks. Our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions are verified by an independent third party and available in Appendix E (Emissions Data and Third- Party Emissions Assurance Statement) of this report. We also participate in the CDP (formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure  Project) survey. Appendix A: Sustainability Accounting Standards Board  (SASB) Metrics  Appendix E: Third-Party Verification Statement Describe the targets used to  manage climate-related risks and""
""opportunities and performance  against targets. As we implement our carbon-emissions-reduction strategy, our goal is to eliminate scope 1 and scope 2 carbon emissions from our  operations by no later than 2045, beginning with a 70% reduction in our CO2 rate by 2025.  Environmental stewardship   Zero Carbon Blueprint About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities""
""Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Appendix B Climate-related risks that may affect our business Sustainability Report   |   63 Climate change risk type Application to our businesses Current/emerging regulation Our operations are subject to complex and comprehensive federal, state and other regulations. Current and emerging regulations are addressed in risk management and business planning. As an example, under a Florida  law enacted in 2019, FPL must file""
""a long-term Storm Protection Plan that details how it plans to continue to build a stronger, smarter and more storm-resilient grid in the years ahead. The Storm Protection Plan and  subsequent FPSC rules regarding cost recovery mechanism are examples of current regulation that address risks related to the environment and severe weather events and impact how FPL receives cost recovery for its  storm-hardening activities. Technology Technology developments are reviewed as part of our corporate""
""risk assessment and strategic planning processes. We are always focused on innovation and exploring new technologies. Being innovative and having a  strong commitment to continuous improvement is at the heart of who we are as a company. From state-of-the-art renewable energy solutions and leading-edge battery storage systems to smart grid technology and drones  equipped with artificial intelligence, we’re making significant investments in innovative, advanced technologies to do what’s right on""
""behalf of our customers, shareholders and other stakeholders. Transition risks related to  changes in the price and availability of technology are some of the environment risks that we consider in our analyses. Based on our ongoing analysis of the long-term potential of low-cost renewables, we remain confident  that wind, solar and battery storage will help reduce costs for customers and help achieve our future CO2-emissions-reduction goal by no later than 2045. Legal While FPL’s generation""
""portfolio emits GHGs at a lower rate than most of the U.S. electric power sector, its results of operations could be impacted to the extent that new federal or state laws or regulations impose any new  GHG emissions limits or a price on CO2 emissions. To address this potential risk, FPL’s integrated resource planning and annual Ten-Year Site Plan filing with the FPSC have included CO2 cost projections since 2007. On the  other hand, we believe that any such new laws or regulations likely would""
""increase the demand for NextEra Energy Resources’ clean energy products and services. Market Investments by FPL are guided by a well-established integrated resource planning process to determine the amount and timing of future generation needed to meet projected growth in energy load and demand. Market  climate-related risks are incorporated into this planning process and different options are evaluated taking into account system economics, forecasted electric power demand, demand-side""
""management, fuel prices, potential  future environmental policies and the integration of low-cost, clean and reliable generation, including solar and energy storage solutions. We also look at the impact of federal and state energy efficiency codes and standards.  To the extent market forces drive demand for renewable energy, we believe that should only increase the opportunities available for NextEra Energy Resources. Acute/chronic physical Our risk management process includes a review of""
""physical environmental risks. Global environmental changes could produce unusual variations in temperature and weather patterns, resulting in more intense, frequent and  extreme weather events, abnormal levels of precipitation and, particularly relevant to FPL, changes in sea level. FPL operates in the east and lower west coasts of Florida and in Northwest Florida, areas that historically have  been prone to severe weather events, such as hurricanes. Throughout our history of managing the""
""impacts of hurricanes and natural disasters in Florida, we have remained focused on safety, execution and the importance of  providing an essential service to our customers during these events. Our continued investments and preparation at FPL have resulted in building a stronger, smarter and more resilient energy grid that has improved reliability in all weather conditions, while enabling faster power restoration  following extreme weather events. Since 2006, FPL has made significant investments""
""in strengthening the energy grid to make it more resilient to severe weather. The deployment of innovative technology to help prevent  outages and shorten restoration times when outages occur has enabled FPL to lower operating costs and improve reliability and resiliency. About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from""
""our   chairman and CEO  Appendix C EEI ESG/Sustainability Quantitative Metrics  Parent Company: NextEra Energy, Inc. (NextEra Energy)  Principal Operating Companies: FPL and NextEra Energy Resources. (Prior to merger into FPL, Gulf Power Company formerly was a principal operating company and data provided is for 2020-2021 only.) Sustainability Report   |   64 Portfolio 2005 2021 2022 2023 Owned Net Generation Capacity (MW)(1) Coal 915 717 717 717 Natural gas(2) 22,515 26,030 25,683 25,701""
""Nuclear 4,015 5,795 5,795 5,795 Oil 1,316 964 855 855 Total Renewable Energy Resources 4,069 23,068 26,429 30,683 Hydroelectric 361 0 0 0 Landfill gas 0 3 3 3 Solar 148 6,548 7,535 10,659 Wind 3,192 16,517 18,891 20,147 Other 368 0 0 0 Owned Net Generation (MWh) Coal 6,065,258 4,439,180 1,748,013 471,887 Natural gas 59,752,003 99,680,103 104,913,929 108,561,043 Nuclear 29,745,644 46,943,053 50,458,336 46,810,633 Oil 23,828,305 293,419 698,467 263,830 Total Renewable Energy Resources 9,385,224""
""69,932,925 75,053,662 82,651,231 Hydroelectric 1,811,409 0 0 0 Landfill gas 0 21,259 22,376 20,656 Solar(3) 275,393 15,232,598 15,199,596 19,798,629 Wind 7,298,422 54,679,068 59,813,690 62,831,947 Capital Expenditures and Energy Efficiency (EE)(4) Annual Capital Expenditures (billions) $2.5 $15.9 $19.0 $25.1 Incremental Annual Electricity Savings from EE Measures (MWh) Form EIA-861 Form EIA-861 Form EIA-861 Form EIA-861 Incremental Annual Investment in Electric EE Programs (thousands) Form""
""EIA-861 Form EIA-861 Form EIA-861 Form EIA-861 Retail Electric Customers Commercial 473,207 636,044 641,613 642,772 Industrial 20,392 12,769 14,094 15,625 Residential 3,859,377 5,036,950 5,113,455 5,179,816 1)    Solar capacity numbers for 2021, 2022 and 2023 include 75 MW of non-incremental thermal solar. Net generation capacity is net ownership interest in plant(s) capacity. 2)       Some natural gas plants have the ability to use oil for additional fuel flexibility. In 2021, approximately 67%""
""had dual-fuel capability. In 2022, approximately 69% had dual-fuel capability. In 2023, approximately 69% has dual-fuel capacity. 3)    During a review of 2021 generation data, a discrepancy was found in total solar MWh reported for FPL. This has been adjusted and accompanying metrics updated. 4)       Per NextEra Energy 10-K filings About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and""
""opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Appendix C EEI ESG/Sustainability Quantitative Metrics  Parent Company: NextEra Energy, Inc. (NextEra Energy)  Principal Operating Companies: FPL and NextEra Energy Resources. (Prior to merger into FPL, Gulf Power Company formerly was a principal operating company and data provided is for 2020-2021 only.) Sustainability Report   |   65 Emissions(5) 2005 2021 2022 2023 Carbon Dioxide (CO2)(6) Owned Generation""
""CO2 Emissions (tons) 54,270,781 46,614,994 45,459,525 45,503,388 Owned Generation CO2 Emissions Intensity (lbs/Net MWh) 843 427 390 381 Total Owned Generation CO2  Emissions (MT) 49,233,638 42,288,462 41,251,837 41,280,028 Total Owned Generation CO2  Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh) 0.260  0.194 0.18 0.17 Non-Generation Carbon Dioxide Equivalents (CO2e) Emissions of Sulfur Hexafluoride (SF6)(7) Total CO2e emissions of SF6 (MT) -- 19,579 16,479 9,199 Leak rate of CO2e emissions of SF6 (MT/Net""
""MWh) -- 0.000088 0.00007 0.00004 Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) NOx Emissions (tons) 55,275 11,601 9,130 8,183 NOx Emissions Intensity (lbs/Net MWh) 0.86 0.11 0.08 0.07 Total NOx Emissions (MT) 50,145 10,525 8,285 7,423 Total NOx Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh) 0.0002651 0.0000476 0.00004 0.00003 Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) SO2  Emissions (tons) 121,480 926 1,120 500 SO2  Emissions Intensity (lbs/Net MWh) 1.89 .008 0.01 0.00 Total SO2  Emissions (MT) 110,205 840 1,017 454 Total SO2  Emissions Intensity (MT/Net""
""MWh) 0.000583 0.000004 0.000004 0.000002 Mercury (Hg) Hg Emissions (kg) 281 45 28.5 7.04 Hg Emissions Intensity (kg/Net MWh) 0.0000022 0.0000002    0.00000012 0.00000003 5)      NextEra Energy conducts business under regulatory regimes that require CO2 rather than CO2e reporting. As a result, metrics may differ throughout the report in areas that report CO2 from power generation only. This data includes emissions data for NextEra Energy power plant sites, as well as joint ownership sites.""
""Data for the joint ownership sites were adjusted to account for the company’s ownership share only. 6)  Purchased power is considered minimal, as this would make up less than 1% of emissions profile and is excluded from the EEI template. 7)        As reported to the EPA in accordance with EPA’s GHG Reporting Program (40 CFR Part 98, Subpart DD)  8)  2005 emissions data shown as actual 2005 emissions inventory, unadjusted for acquisitions or divestitures made since 2005. About this report""
""Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Appendix C EEI ESG/Sustainability Quantitative Metrics  Parent Company: NextEra Energy, Inc. (NextEra Energy)  Principal Operating Companies: FPL and NextEra Energy Resources. Sustainability Report   |   66 9)                Number of board of directors members""
""reduced to 12, as of August 2022, following leadership transition. 10)     Water metrics reported reflect use for plant operations and use associated with decommissioning or closure of generating facilities, except the rate metric. The rate metric only reflects water use for power generation per MWh. Water data may be periodically updated to incorporate improvements to our water data management system.              With the development of our improved water data management system, the baseline""
""for water data was adjusted to 2007. 11)        NextEra Energy is beneficially reusing/recycling CCR material at a site that is no longer generating CCR material, resulting in a recycling number greater than 100. Resources 2005 2021 2022 2023 Human resources Total number of employees 12,400 15,017 15,300 16,800 Percentage of women in total workforce Not reported 24% 25% 25% Percentage of minorities in total workforce Not reported 39% 41% 41% Total number on board of directors 11 13(9) 12 13""
""Percentage of women on board of directors 9% 15% 23% 38% Percentage of minorities on board of directors 18% 15% 17% 15% Employee safety - recordable incident rate 2.40 0.33 0.31 0.24 Employee safety - work-related fatalities 0 0 0 0 Fresh water resources used in thermal power generation activities(10) Water withdrawals - consumptive (millions of gallons) 21,061 21,112 24,054 20,400 Water withdrawals - consumptive (millions of gallons) 341,107 481,040 479,608 444,187 Water withdrawals -""
""consumptive rate (millions of gallons/net MWh) 0.0001385 0.0000942 0.0001033 0.0000854 Water withdrawals - non-consumptive rate (millions of gallons/net MWh) 0.0022429 0.0021371 0.0020597 0.0018605 Waste products Amount of hazardous waste manifested for disposal (tons) Not tracked 1.3 6.18 11.6 Percent of coal combustion products beneficially used Not tracked 91% 130%(11) 199.6%(11) About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees,""
""customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Appendix D United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Metrics  Our business is aligned with global sustainability initiatives, particularly the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The 17 goals and 169 targets provide a framework for governments, businesses and organizations to advance   sustainable development. In 2021, we mapped our""
""alignment with the SDGs to determine where our business most aligns with and contributes to supporting the goals. While nearly all of the SDGs are indirectly aligned with various aspects of our  corporate strategies, we identified that our business strategy directly aligns with three priority SDGs (7, 9 and 13) and two additional SDGs (14 and 15) where our operations may make a significant contribution. Sustainability Report   |   67 SDG Our approach   Additional response We began our clean""
""energy journey in the 1980s when we invested in our first solar and wind projects. Twenty years later, we made the strategic decision  in Florida to move FPL away from oil generation and replace it with highly fuel-efficient clean energy centers that run on American-produced natural  gas and cost-effective solar. FPL’s generation fleet continues to be one of the cleanest and most efficient in the country, evident by a CO2-emissions-  reduction rate that’s 20% better than the national average""
""over the past 20 years. Since 2001, we have saved Florida customers nearly $16 billion in  avoided fuel costs and eliminated more than 200 million tons of CO2 emissions. In 2022, NextEra Energy announced its industry-leading goal to be carbon emissions-free by no later than 2045, with zero scope 1 direct emissions  from owned assets and zero scope 2 indirect emissions from owned or leased operations. We have set clear interim emissions-reduction targets, aiming  for a 70% reduction in electric""
""generation intensity by 2025, 82% by 2030, 87% by 2035, 94% by 2040, and reaching 100% by no later than 2045.  We recognize that achieving this goal is contingent upon several key assumptions, including the ability to do so without any incremental costs to our  customers. For us, this goal is an extension of our core values and a continuation of work we have done for decades to systematically modernize our  power plant fleet. Our goal aims to deliver a carbon-free future, while keeping electric""
""bills low, spurring job creation and economic growth, and further  securing America’s energy independence. We believe this journey will bring cost-effective solutions to customers and save billions of dollars in fuel costs  to generate electricity.   » FPL plans to install 25 GW of solar and battery storage in Florida from 2023-2033.    » NextEra Energy Resources has 31 GW(1) of clean energy in operation and expects to build approximately 36.5 GW to 46.5 GW of new wind,  solar and battery""
""storage projects by 2027.    » Our capital investments also will help us meet our near-term goal of reducing our CO2-emissions rate 82% by 2030 from a 2005 baseline. Zero Carbon Blueprint  NextEra Energy: America’s electricity leader  2024 FPL Ten-Year Site Plan  Employees, customers and communities - Customer care As one of the largest electric power and energy infrastructure companies in North America and a leader in the renewable energy industry, NextEra Energy  is committed to building a""
""sustainable energy future that is clean, reliable and affordable.   » Over the past decade, we have invested ~$134 billion in infrastructure capital deployment. NextEra Energy: America’s electricity leader  Environmental stewardship - Carbon footprint reduction  Employees, customers and communities - Employee community  support 1)         As of June 30, 2024; Includes NextEra Energy Partners’ portfolio reflected at Energy Resources’ ownership share About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:""
""America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Appendix D United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Metrics  Our business is aligned with global sustainability initiatives, particularly the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The 17 goals and 169 targets provide a framework for governments, businesses and organizations""
""to advance sustainable  development. In 2021, we mapped our alignment with the SDGs to determine where our business most aligns with and contributes to supporting the goals. While nearly all of the SDGs are indirectly aligned with various aspects of our corporate strategies, we  identified that our business strategy directly aligns with three priority SDGs (7, 9 and 13) and two additional SDGs (14 and 15) where our operations may make a significant contribution. Sustainability Report   |   68""
""SDG Our approach   Additional response We believe that no company in any industry has done more to reduce carbon emissions than NextEra Energy.    Climate-related risks and opportunities have influenced our financial plan for capital expenditures, acquisitions and revenues, to respond to our  customers’ demands for clean and renewable energy. This has influenced our capital plan in executing our significant renewable energy deployment and  grid-hardening initiatives.    » NextEra Energy’s""
""CO2-emissions-rate-reduction goal calls for a significant investment that strives to eliminate all scope 1 and scope 2  carbon-emissions across our operations by no later than 2045.        » NextEra Energy’s plan would generate only carbon-emissions-free energy from a diverse mixture of wind, solar, battery storage, nuclear  and emerging technologies. Zero Carbon Blueprint  NextEra Energy: America’s electricity leader  Environmental stewardship - Carbon footprint reduction  Risks and""
""opportunities  Risks and opportunities - Storms, flooding and other natural disasters  Risks and opportunities - Emergency preparedness Before we build any operating facility, we study the local ecosystem so that we can better understand what it takes to be a partner in its preservation  and to be a good neighbor to all the species that live there. We carefully consider the presence of any threatened or endangered species, as well as  significant wildlife corridors, wetlands or other""
""ecologically important areas. We seek to minimize and mitigate the impact of our development before  we begin a project, and once a project is operating, we continue to monitor potential impacts to biodiversity. From sea turtles to crocodiles to gopher  tortoises and burrowing owls, we have or participate in programs across the country that support many different species. Examples of our wildlife and  habitat restoration projects follow.  » In the 1980s, FPL initiated an American crocodile""
""management program at the Turkey Point Clean Energy Center. Our crocodile  management program includes preserving these nesting areas, completing population surveys, conducting capture and spatial distribution  surveys and regulating plant activity at night and during nesting season. In 2023, FPL biologists documented 25 nests and captured, tagged  and released 482 hatchlings.         » At our Florida solar energy centers, we work with Audubon Florida and other local organizations to craft site-""
""specific enhancement and  preservation plans focused on providing habitat opportunities for birds, pollinators and other wildlife.      » For decades, FPL has worked closely with state and federal agencies to ensure manatees are protected. FPL opened  Manatee Lagoon – An Eco-Discovery Center to help educate the public and inspire communities to preserve Florida’s environment  and wildlife for future generations. In the 2022-2023 manatee season, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and Florida Fish""
""and Wildlife  Conservation Commission (FWC) activated a temporary field response station at FPL’s Cape Canaveral Clean Energy Center to respond to  the unusual mortality event in Florida and help prevent further deaths through rescue and rehabilitation. The energy center, located in the  northern Indian River Lagoon, is a critical location where manatees congregate as they migrate south during the winter. FPL worked with  FWC to assist in the effort and pledged to contribute more than $700,000""
""over three years to help with manatee rescue and rehabilitation,  education and habitat restoration. Environmental stewardship - Habitat and wildlife preservation About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Appendix E Emissions Data and Third-Party Emissions Assurance Statements    2023""
""scope 1, scope 2 and scope 3 emissions inventory received independent third-party verification. The verification  activities were conducted in alignment with the principles of ISO-14064-3:2006(E) specifications with Guidance for the  Validation and Verification of Greenhouse Gas Assertions. Our GHG emissions rate (pounds of CO2 per MWh) was also  verified as part of this process. Scope 1 emissions were reported for stationary, mobile and fugitive sources. Scope 2 (location-based) emissions  were""
""reported for office facilities (owned or leased), not served by FPL. Emissions were estimated using actual kWh  purchases (when available), square footage and a national average CO2 emissions factor derived from electric sector  emissions and generation data. Scope 2 (market-based) emissions were reported for office facilities (owned or leased)  not served by FPL. Emissions were estimated using actual kWh purchases (when available), square footage and  Green-e Energy Residual Mix Emissions Rates""
""(2018). Scope 3 emissions were reported as per GHG Protocol Scope 3  Standards for Category 3 (fuel- and energy-related activities not included in scope 1 or scope 2), Category 6 (business  Travel) and Category 11 (use of sold products). Sustainability Report   |   69   DCN 575_Version 2.0 6.12.23        2  NextEra Energy, Inc CY2023 GHG Inventory - Verification Opinion Objectives  The primary objectives of this verification assignment were as follows:    Verify whether NextEra’s CY2023 GHG""
""Inventory meets the generally accepted GHG accounting  principles of accuracy, completeness, transparency, relevance, and consistency.    Determine if NextEra has reported all emissions in conformance with the WRI/WBCSD GHG protocol  and WRI/WBCSD Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.    Determine whether NextEra’s CY2023 GHG Inventory meets/exceeds 95% threshold for accuracy.    Determine whether NextEra’s CY2023 NextEra Energy’s GHG emissions rate (lbs of CO2""
""per MWh)  meets/exceeds the 95% threshold for accuracy.  Verification Criteria  Cameron-Cole conducted verification activities in alignment with the principles of ISO-14064-3:2019(E)  Specification with guidance for the verification and validation of greenhouse gas statements. The NextEra’s  GHG statement was prepared to and verified against, the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol and WRI/WBCSD  Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.  Verification Scope & GHG Statement   The""
""boundaries of the NextEra’s GHG Statement included in the scope of the verification are as follows:    Geographical: United States    Chemical: carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O)    Organizational Boundary: NextEra has defined its organizational reporting boundary based on  financial control.    Operational Boundary: The following sources/emissions were identified in NextEra’s organizational  boundary:  Scope 1    Direct emissions from mobile combustion sources: fleet""
""fuel    DCN 575_Version 2.0 6.12.23        1  NextEra Energy, Inc CY2023 GHG Inventory - Verification Opinion Verification Opinion   NextEra Energy, Inc CY2023 GHG Inventory  Background  Cameron-Cole, LLC (Cameron-Cole) was retained by NextEra Energy, Inc (NextEra) to perform an independent  verification of its Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Inventory (GHG Statement) for Calendar Year (CY) 2023  and NextEra GHG emissions rate (lbs of CO2 per MWh). The Scope 1 and 2 GHG Inventory was developed""
""according to the World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development  (WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (2004 revised edition)  along with its associated amendments. The Scope 3 GHG Inventory was prepared using the WRI/WBCSD  Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard dated September 2011 and associated  amendments. Our opinion on the results of the inventory, with respect to the verification""
""objectives and  criteria, is provided in this statement.  Responsibility of NextEra & Independence of Verification Provider  NextEra has sole responsibility for the content of its GHG Statement. Cameron-Cole accepts no responsibility  for any changes that may have occurred to the GHG emissions results since they were submitted to us for  review. Based on internationally accepted norms for impartiality, we believe our review represents an  independent assessment of NextEra’s CY2023 GHG Emissions""
""Inventory. Finally, the opinion expressed in this  verification statement should not be relied upon as the basis for any financial or investment decisions.  Level of Assurance  The level of assurance is used to determine the depth of detail that a Verification Body designs into the  Verification Plan to determine if there are material errors, omissions, or misstatements in a company's GHG  assertions. Two levels of assurance are generally recognized—reasonable and limited. Reasonable Assurance""
""generates the highest level of confidence that an emissions report is materially correct (with the exception of  Absolute Assurance which is generally impractical for companies to achieve). Limited Assurance provides less  confidence and involves a less-detailed examination of GHG data and supporting documentation. Limited  Assurance statements assert that there is no evidence that an emissions report is not materially correct.  Cameron-Cole’s verification of NextEra’s GHG Emissions Inventory""
""for CY2023 was constructed to provide a  Limited Level of Assurance.      NextEra has determined that two additional Scope 2 categories, O&M Buildings for  renewable operations (wind, solar, landfill gas) and Gas Infrastructure, are relevant to Scope  2 and is currently undergoing a process to accurately calculate these emissions.    Indirect Emissions from purchased heating   NextEra’s GHG assertions are as follows: For CY2023, NextEra reported 42,278,597.25 metric tons (MT) of  carbon""
""dioxide equivalents (CO2e) from direct emission sources (Scope 1), 14,873.49 MT of biogenic CO2 from  direct emissions sources, 15,879.15 MT CO2e from Scope 2 location-based emission sources, 16,300.37 MT  CO2e Scope 2 market-based emission sources, and 2,671,312.21 MT CO2e from Scope 3 emissions sources  including Category 3 Fuel and Energy-related Activities, Category 6 Business Travel, and Category 11 Use of  Sold Products. Of CY2023 Scope 1 and 2 emissions, NextEra’s NEE reported emissions""
""rate for CY2023 was  382.49 lbs of CO2 per MWh, which showed a -1.93% change compared to the 2022 emissions rate.  *The emission rate of 382.49 lbs of CO2 per MWh does not include CH4, N2O, or biogenic CO2 emissions*  Verification Opinion  Based on the method employed and the results of our verification activities, Cameron-Cole has found no  evidence of material errors, omissions, or misstatements in NextEra’s CY2023 GHG Inventory or emissions  rate within the boundaries described above.""
""Cameron-Cole also found that NextEra’s GHG accounting and  calculation methodologies, processes, and systems for this inventory conform to the WRI/WBCSD GHG  Protocol and WRI/WBCSD Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.  Cameron-Cole, LLC  May 21, 2024        Mallory Andrews  Lead Verifier                                                   Head of Verification Services    Michelle Fremming  Independent Reviewer                                                Strategy""
""III, Sustainability Services      DCN 575_Version 2.0 6.12.23        3  NextEra Energy, Inc CY2023 GHG Inventory - Verification Opinion    Direct emissions from stationary combustion sources: fossil fuel combustion emissions  reported using continuous emission monitoring systems and gas infrastructure businesses  (Trinity Operating, NET Midstream, and Florida City Gas)     Direct emissions from fugitive emissions: gas infrastructure businesses (Trinity Operating,  NET Midstream, and Florida""
""City Gas)  Scope 2    Indirect emissions from purchased electricity at more than 30 owned and leased locations  (based primarily on square footage and electricity intensity factors). Leased locations are  identified based on the ASC 842 accounting standard.  Scope 3     Category 3: Fuel and energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2)    Category 6: Business travel    Category 11: Use of sold products  In addition to the scope listed above, Cameron-Cole verified NextEra’s""
""GHG emissions rate (lbs of CO2 per  MWh) and percentage of change compared to NextEra’s CY2022 GHG Emissions Inventory.   Known exclusions from NextEra’s reporting boundaries include the following:           Scope 1    Direct Fugitive Emissions: HFC emissions from stationary and mobile equipment and  vehicles; CO2 fire-suppression systems and SF6    Direct Emissions from Stationary Combustion Sources: emergency and non-emergency  generators that are not at fossil power plants used for power""
""delivery (substations, service  centers), office buildings, storm restoration (staging sites), and renewable energy plants    ·Direct Emissions from Landfill Gas Operations: NextEra acquired Energy Power Partners in  2023 and is working to evaluate additional emissions for Scope 1.  Scope 2    Indirect Emissions from Purchased Electricity: within the protected area during periodic  nuclear refueling outages.  2023 Scope 1 emissions 42,278,597 metric tons CO2e Scope 2 emissions (location-based)""
""15,879 metric tons CO2e Scope 2 emissions (market-based) 16,300 metric tons CO2e Scope 3 emissions (fuel- and energy-related activities [not included in scope 1 or scope 2], business travel and use of sold products) 2,671,312 metric tons CO2e Emissions rate 382 pounds CO2 per MWh About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A""
""letter from our   chairman and CEO  Appendix F Paris-aligned Benchmark (PAB) Article 12    Some investors are regulated by the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) and may only invest in companies that align with the Paris-aligned Benchmark (PAB) Article 12. NextEra Energy aligns with  all rules under PAB Article 12. Sustainability Report   |   70 Administrators of European Union Paris-aligned Benchmarks shall exclude all of the following companies from those benchmarks: Rule NextEra""
""Energy (a) companies involved in any activities related to controversial weapons  Not applicable (b) companies involved in the cultivation and production of tobacco Not applicable (c) companies that benchmark administrators find in violation of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles or the Organisation  for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprise Not applicable (d) companies that derive 1% or more of their revenues from exploration,""
""mining, extraction, distribution or refining of hard coal and lignite Not applicable (e) companies that derive 10% or more of their revenues from the exploration, extraction, distribution or refining of oil fuels1 Not applicable (f)    companies that derive 50% or more of their revenues from the exploration, extraction, manufacturing or distribution of gaseous fuels1 Not applicable (g) companies that derive 50% or more of their revenues from electricity generation with a GHG intensity of more""
""than 100 g CO2 e/kWh Not applicable 1)    MSCI identifies NextEra Energy on its ESMA PAB (Paris-aligned Benchmark) exclusions screen related to article 12.1 (e) for companies that derive 10% or more of their revenues from exploration, extraction, distribution or refining of oil fuels. MSCI includes in that category NextEra Energy’s     revenues from NextEra Energy Resources’ investment in natural gas pipelines and other gas infrastructure, which both relate mostly to gaseous fuels. Thus, MSCI’s""
""methodology includes Article 12.1 (f) revenues not only in Article 12.1 (f), but also in Article 12.1 (e)’s 10% oil fuels threshold           as well. To help facilitate an accurate estimation of NextEra Energy’s 2023 revenues from its investments in natural gas pipelines and other gas infrastructure, NextEra Energy’s 2023 revenues from its investments in natural gas pipelines and gas infrastructure were $1,259 million. This amount           excludes the impact from non-qualifying hedges.""
""NextEra Energy’s actual 2023 revenues from its investments in exploration, extraction, distribution or refining of oil fuels were substantially less than $1,259 million and well below Article 12.1 (e)’s oil fuels threshold.  About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A letter from our   chairman and CEO  Forward-looking""
""Energy’s control. Forward- looking statements in this report include, among others, statements concerning adjusted earnings per  share expectations and future operating performance and statements concerning the zero-carbon- emissions-reduction goals and associated expectations. In some cases, you can identify the forward- looking statements by words or phrases such as “will,” “may result,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,”  “intend,” “plan,” “seek,” “potential,” “projection,” “forecast,”""
""operational and economic factors on regulatory decisions important to NextEra  Energy; effect of any reductions or modifications to, or elimination of, governmental incentives or  policies that support utility scale renewable energy projects or the imposition of additional tax laws,  tariffs, duties, policies or assessments on renewable energy or equipment necessary to generate it or  deliver it; impact of new or revised laws, regulations, interpretations or constitutional ballot and  regulatory""
""initiatives on NextEra Energy; capital expenditures, increased operating costs and various  liabilities attributable to environmental laws, regulations and other standards applicable to NextEra  Energy; effects on NextEra Energy of federal or state laws or regulations mandating new or additional  limits on the production of greenhouse gas emissions; exposure of NextEra Energy to significant and  increasing compliance costs and substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions as a result of""
""improvements to)  electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities or other facilities  on schedule or within budget; impact on development and operating activities of NextEra Energy  resulting from risks related to project siting, planning, financing, construction, permitting, governmental  approvals and the negotiation of project development agreements, as well as supply chain disruptions;  risks involved in the operation and maintenance of electric""
""generation, storage, transmission and  distribution facilities, gas infrastructure facilities, and other facilities; effect on NextEra Energy of a lack  of growth, slower growth or a decline in the number of customers or in customer usage; impact on  NextEra Energy of severe weather and other weather conditions; threats of terrorism and catastrophic  events that could result from geopolitical factors, terrorism, cyberattacks or other attempts to disrupt  NextEra Energy’s business or the""
""businesses of third parties; inability to obtain adequate insurance  coverage for protection of NextEra Energy against significant losses and risk that insurance coverage  does not provide protection against all significant losses; a prolonged period of low gas and oil prices  could impact NextEra Energy’s gas infrastructure business and cause NextEra Energy to delay or  cancel certain gas infrastructure projects and could result in certain projects becoming impaired; risk  of increased""
""operating costs resulting from unfavorable supply costs necessary to provide full energy  and capacity requirement services; inability or failure to manage properly or hedge effectively the  commodity risk within its portfolio; effect of reductions in the liquidity of energy markets on NextEra  Energy’s ability to manage operational risks; effectiveness of NextEra Energy’s risk management tools  associated with its hedging and trading procedures to protect against significant losses, including""
""the  effect of unforeseen price variances from historical behavior; impact of unavailability or disruption of  power transmission or commodity transportation facilities on sale and delivery of power or natural gas;  exposure of NextEra Energy to credit and performance risk from customers, hedging counterparties  and vendors; failure of counterparties to perform under derivative contracts or of requirement for  NextEra Energy to post margin cash collateral under derivative contracts; failure or""
""identify, complete and integrate  acquisitions, including the effect of increased competition for acquisitions; environmental, health and  financial risks associated with ownership and operation of nuclear generation facilities; liability of  NextEra Energy for significant retrospective assessments and/or retrospective insurance premiums in  the event of an incident at certain nuclear generation facilities; increased operating and capital  expenditures and/or reduced revenues at nuclear""
""generation facilities resulting from orders or new  regulations of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission; inability to operate any of NextEra Energy’s owned  nuclear generation units through the end of their respective operating licenses or planned license  extensions; effect of disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit and capital markets or actions by  third parties in connection with project-specific or other financing arrangements on NextEra Energy’s  ability to fund its liquidity and""
""capital needs and meet its growth objectives; inability to maintain current  credit ratings; impairment of liquidity from inability of credit providers to fund their credit commitments  or to maintain their current credit ratings; poor market performance and other economic factors that  could affect NextEra Energy’s defined benefit pension plan’s funded status; poor market performance  and other risks to the asset values of nuclear decommissioning funds; changes in market value and  other risks""
""and this report  should be read in conjunction with such SEC filings. The forward-looking statements made in this  report are made only as of the date of this report and NextEra Energy undertakes no obligation to  update any forward-looking statements. Sustainability Report   |   71 About this report Appendices NextEra Energy:   America’s electricity leader Environmental   stewardship Employees, customers   and communities Governance Risks and opportunities Awards and recognitions  Conclusion A""
""letter from our   chairman and CEO  NextEra Energy, Inc.  700 Universe Boulevard, Juno Beach, FL 33408 For more information:   NextEraEnergy.com FPL.com NextEraEnergyResources.com NOVEMBER 2024""
