""CREATING SHARED VALUE 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT COMMITTED ACTIONS, POSITIVE IMPACTS  CONTENTS INTRODUCTION 3 Letter from Vicki 3 About Oxy 4 Oxy’s Mission, Vision and Values         6 Health, Safety, Environmental and Sustainability (HSE&S) Principles          7 Our Sustainability Strategy 8 Our Climate Strategy 9 Stakeholder Engagement                                                                                                                                10 Committed to Good:""
""Contributions to Sustainable Development          11 2023 Performance Highlights and Progress on our Sustainability Pillars      13 PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNANCE   16 Board Composition and Practices     18 Enterprise Risk Management   22 Cybersecurity       23 Business Ethics and Human Rights 24 Public Policy Engagement and Lobbying          27 Oxy’s Operating Management System   31 PEOPLE      37 Human Capital and Workforce Development    38 Health and Safety    54 Process Safety and""
""Asset Integrity          62 Emergency Preparedness and Response         64 Promoting Transportation Safety     66 Product Stewardship         69 PLANET      70 Environmental Stewardship 71 Accelerating Carbon Innovation 72 Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Methane and Flaring      80 Other Air Emissions         83 Energy Utilization and Efficiency   84 Water Stewardship   86 Waste Management    94 Spill Prevention    98 Biodiversity, Land Use and Remediation      100 PROSPERITY        ""
""108 Community Engagement and Social Investment         110 Managing Our Supply Chain         130 Industry Engagement and Leadership          133 ABOUT THIS REPORT          135 Additional Oxy Reporting Guidance          136 Sustainability Report Topic Prioritization         137 APPENDICES         139 Oxy Sustainability Report 2024  Vicki Hollub  President and Chief Executive Officer It is with great appreciation that I reflect upon Oxy’s recent sustainability accomplishments across our""
""energy  production, midstream and marketing, essential chemistry and carbon innovation businesses. To achieve Oxy’s  vision of a sustainable future, we have built an integrated portfolio of assets and infrastructure operated by  remarkable people driven by passion to outperform.  Our comprehensive strategy starts with taking care of our people and upholding consistently high standards  around the world. On the safety front, our company-wide employee Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) was 0.21""
""Group events. In June 2024, U.S. News & World  Report recognized Oxy as one of its 2024-2025 Best Companies to Work For. Out of 3,000 large, publicly traded  companies that were considered for the recognition, Oxy was among only 18% of companies that rated “Best”  status. Additionally, we ranked in the #1 spot within the Mining and Raw Materials industry.  Oxy’s efforts to decarbonize our own operations and advance technologies that will help others to do the same  continues, with a reduction of""
""the company’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions of 20.4%  since 2019, and a 65.2% reduction in methane emissions over this period. We achieved a 67% reduction in  routine flaring for global oil and gas operations from our 2020 baseline, while sustaining zero routine flaring  in our domestic operations.  To further worldwide industry efforts to reduce global emissions, we became an  original signatory to the Oil and Gas Decarbonization Charter (OGDC) and committed funding to the""
""World Bank’s  Global Flaring and Methane Reduction (GFMR) Partnership at COP28 in Dubai.   We significantly expanded our sustainability-focused investments and partnerships over the past year. These  included our acquisition of all the outstanding equity of Carbon Engineering — our Direct Air Capture (DAC)  technology partner of five years. Carbon Engineering’s groundbreaking research and development will play  an important role in our integrated Net-Zero Strategy and position us to accelerate""
""cost reduction among our  carbon removal offerings.   Construction of our first Direct Air Capture facility, STRATOS, is underway in Ector County, Texas, and on schedule  to be commercially operational in mid-2025. Demonstrating that DAC is becoming an investible technology,  we formed a joint venture with BlackRock, one of the world’s leading providers of investment, advisory and  risk management services, to develop STRATOS, which will be the world’s largest DAC plant when completed.  Our""
""1PointFIve subsidiary is also making significant progress in creating a global market for carbon dioxide  removal credits (CDRs). In July 2024, 1PointFive announced a landmark deal with Microsoft, which agreed to  purchase 500,000 metric tons of CDRs, the largest DAC CDR purchase to date. A commitment of this magnitude  demonstrates how one of the world’s largest corporations is integrating scalable DAC into its net-zero strategy,  and the important role this technology will play in achieving""
""global climate targets.  Also in support of our climate strategy, wholly owned Oxy subsidiary TerraLithium formed a joint venture in  June 2024 with BHE Renewables, a wholly owned subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Energy. This partnership  will further advance the demonstration and deployment of our patented Direct Lithium Extraction process and  associated technologies to extract and commercially produce high-purity lithium compounds from geothermal  brine.  In August 2024, we welcomed our new""
""colleagues from CrownRock to Oxy.  The CrownRock acquisition  complements Oxy’s premier Permian asset base and will enhance our sustainability strategy. Oxy and  CrownRock have built leading positions in water recycling in the Midland Basin, and we look forward to  integrating our substantial water processing capabilities to further enhance our proactive water stewardship.   We also work closely in the regions surrounding our operations, partnering with educational institutions,  workforce""
""development programs and community and environmental advocacy groups to ensure benefits from  our projects flow to the local communities and promote greater prosperity. 2024 marks Oxy’s 40th anniversary  in the Sultanate of Oman where we serve as one of the country’s leading international investors. Our 3,330  Omani employees comprise over 25% of our global employee base, and our capital investments and operations  drive significant in-country value, contributing to 20,000+ contractor or""
""feedback about how we can extend our legacy as a Partner of Choice®.  Our 2023 progress demanded hard work and innovation by thousands of talented people across the  organization. I would like to thank the dedicated Oxy workforce, as well as the communities that host our  operations, for making what we do possible. I’d also like to thank our Board of Directors and its Sustainability and  Shareholder Engagement Committee for their service and direction as we strive to lead our industries in high-""
""performance oil and gas production, midstream and marketing, essential chemistry and carbon innovation.  Vicki Hollub  President and Chief Executive Officer  PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES About Oxy  Oxy’s principal businesses consist of three segments: oil and gas, chemical and midstream and marketing. The oil and gas segment explores for, develops and produces oil (including condensate), natural gas liquids  (NGL) and natural gas. Our subsidiary""
""Occidental Chemical Corporation (OxyChem) primarily manufactures and markets basic chemicals and vinyls. The midstream and marketing segment purchases, markets,  gathers, processes, transports and stores oil, NGL, natural gas, CO2 and power. It also optimizes its transportation and storage capacity, and invests in entities that conduct similar activities, such as Western  Midstream Partners, L.P.   Within the midstream and marketing segment, Oxy Low Carbon Ventures (OLCV) seeks to leverage Oxy’s""
""legacy of carbon management in enhanced oil recovery (EOR) to develop Carbon Capture, Utilization and  Storage (CCUS) projects, including the commercialization of Direct Air Capture (DAC) technology, invest in other low-carbon technologies intended to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from Oxy’s operations  and strategically partner with other industries to help reduce their emissions.   We conduct operations internationally, with assets primarily in the United States, the Middle East and""
""Chemical Midstream and Marketing 24 Permian Rockies and Other Domestic Gulf of Mexico Middle East Algeria and Other International Domestic International 1,223 7,795 82% 584 Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 4  PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES U.S. Canada Chile Latin America Algeria Gulf of Mexico Oman UAE * Oxy applies operational control as our primary organizational boundary for climate and sustainability reporting. Algeria, Al Hosn and Dolphin are joint""
""ventures in which Oxy is a participant but is not the  operator. We include them here as their operations generate significant value for Oxy and our partners. See About this Report for further information on our reporting boundaries. Oxy’s Integrated Portfolio • Emerging low-carbon businesses commercializing  CCUS and DAC solutions • Developing competitive-returns businesses with  cash flow stability Oxy Low Carbon Ventures • A leading position in the Denver-Julesburg Basin  0.7 MM net acres""
""including vast   minerals position • Among the largest producers in Colorado with  significant free cash flow generation •  Emerging Powder River Basin  0.3 MM net acres Rockies • 9 active operated platforms • Significant free cash flow generation • Sizeable inventory of remaining   tie-back opportunities Gulf of Mexico • Premier unconventional positions in the Delaware  and Midland Basins    2.8 MM net acres  - 1.4 MM for unconventional  - 1.4 MM for conventional • Significant scale,""
""technical capability and   low-decline conventional production • Strategic infrastructure and logistics hub in place • EOR advancements and CCUS potential for  economic growth and carbon reduction strategy Permian • Deepwater exploration opportunities Latin America • 23 owned or operated facilities in the U.S., Canada  and Chile • Integrated assets capture benefits of favorable  market conditions • Top-tier global producer in every   product produced OxyChem • High-return opportunities in""
""won’t. We will lead the industry by reaching for the impossible, then achieving it. We do this by having the  right assets in the hands of remarkable people driven by passion to outperform. Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 6  Design and conduct safe, reliable and sustainable operations that promote worker and public health and  safety, product stewardship and environmental quality. Respect the laws and values of communities where we operate and participate constructively in  legislative and""
""regulatory development. Conserve natural resources, including biodiversity, wildlife, habitat, water and energy, and manage  resources responsibly. Advance the circular economy through waste minimization, reuse and recycling and extending the  productive lives of our property, plants and infrastructure. Evaluate and mitigate potential risks and impacts to people and the environment. Pursue our ambitious goals of net-zero greenhouse gas emissions in our operations and products to  further the""
""goals of the Paris Agreement. Report on our performance and engage with shareholders and other stakeholders to enhance health,  safety, environmental and sustainability programs. Collaborate with host communities to contribute to their vitality in the transition to a net-zero future. Provide innovative products, services and solutions to help host governments, partners, suppliers  and customers address global challenges, achieve net-zero goals, and advance the UN Sustainable  Development Goals.""
""PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES Health, Safety, Environmental and Sustainability  (HSE&S) Principles These principles, approved by our Board of Directors in 2022, unify our workforce  around key issues, frame our engagement with stakeholders, and exemplify our core  values in practical, actionable ways. Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 7  Corporate Governance Risk Management Cybersecurity Public Policy Engagement Business Ethics PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY""
""GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES Our Sustainability Strategy: Integrating Sustainability into Everyday Operations Oxy’s integrated business model unifies our talented, diverse workforce with best-in-class assets and industry leadership to advance innovative solutions to global challenges in accordance with our HSE&S  Principles. Founded in 1920, Oxy’s success is built on our core values, technical expertise, business acumen, strong partnerships and our ability to deliver lasting""
""results. Our employees lead and innovate for the acceleration of a successful transition to a low-carbon future while providing the reliable energy and chemicals essential to society. A big part of this effort is the ongoing  evaluation of ways in which we can integrate sustainability throughout the company, improve our programs and performance, and transparently share our progress with stakeholders. As part of our commitment to sustainability, Oxy strives to diligently identify and address our""
""key risks and opportunities. We integrate our sustainability pillars and HSE&S Principles into our strategic planning and  investment decision-making processes and routinely perform risk assessments to support readiness for emerging challenges and opportunities. OxyChem’s approach to sustainability and stewardship aligns with Oxy’s HSE&S Principles. OxyChem is a leading producer of life-enhancing chemistry as well as a central contributor to our role as an innovative and  sustainable industry""
""leader. We value our reputation as a Partner of Choice®. We are dedicated to: Our sustainability strategy is organized around four pillars: Key focus areas: Key focus areas: Key focus areas: Key focus areas: Operating responsibly Upholding and promoting human rights Maintaining high ethical standards Respecting cultural norms and values  everywhere we operate Providing safe, healthy and secure workplaces Benefiting our stakeholders Protecting the environment and  minimizing our footprint""
""Contributing to our neighboring  communities and regional economies GOVERNANCE PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY GHG Emissions and Climate Change Community Engagement Talent Attraction, Retention and Advancement Water Stewardship Social Investment Waste Management Supply Chain Management Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging (DIB) Biodiversity and Habitat Conservation Health and Safety of our Workforce  and Communities Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 8  PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS""
""REPORT APPENDICES Our Climate Strategy: Building to Net-Zero Oxy’s original Net-Zero Strategy diagram from our 2021 Climate Report In 2020, Oxy was the first U.S. oil and gas company to announce goals to achieve net-zero GHG  emissions for our total emissions inventory including use of sold products. These goals include  achieving net-zero GHG emissions (i) from our operations and energy use before 2040, with an ambition  to do so before 2035, and (ii) from our sold products, with an ambition to""
""do so before 2050. We currently have several short- and medium-term targets to support these overarching net-zero goals  and ambitions. Oxy’s HSE&S Principles reflect our ambitious net-zero goals and strategy to advance  the goals of the Paris Agreement, our collaboration with host communities in the transition to a net- zero economy, and our drive to provide innovative products, services and solutions to address global  challenges. Our Net-Zero Strategy describes the multiple pathways through""
""which we aim to meet our sustainability  goals, achieve a successful net-zero transition and help others to do so.  Central to this strategy is our  development and commercialization of technologies that lower both GHG emissions from industrial  processes and existing atmospheric concentrations of CO2. Oxy believes that carbon removal  technologies, including DAC and CCUS, can, given the necessary incentives for their development and  deployment, provide essential CO2 reductions to assist the""
""world’s transition to a less carbon-intensive  economy. Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 9  The content coverage of our climate and sustainability reports Matters related to corporate governance, including the adoption of proxy access and  amendments to our charter that facilitate shareholders’ ability to act by written consent and call  special meetings The executive compensation program, including the design of the short-term incentive program. PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT""
""THIS REPORT APPENDICES Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder engagement is a central activity with us at Oxy and a catalyst for ongoing improvement in our  policies, practices and reporting. We work to build trust through regular and transparent communication  and engagement with shareholders, employees, policy makers, environmental organizations, business  partners and community leaders and neighbors where we operate. Oxy’s stakeholder engagement process includes the identification of key""
""stakeholders, an assessment of  stakeholder interests and issues, an evaluation of the community’s socioeconomic needs if applicable,  and the development and implementation of a stakeholder engagement plan. We use a variety of methods  and metrics, such as priority topics assessments and value chain impact mapping, to discern and assess  important sustainability issues raised by internal and external stakeholders. Our goal is to understand and  proactively address issues to develop beneficial""
""outcomes. Members of the Board’s Sustainability and Shareholder Engagement (S&SE) Committee engage with  shareholders periodically, oversee Oxy’s shareholder engagement program, and report shareholder views  to the Board. We regularly meet with shareholders to hear their views on governance, human capital and  Oxy’s Net-Zero Strategy, among other ESG topics.  Shareholder engagements in recent years have resulted in enhancements to Oxy’s  sustainability programs and disclosures such as: Our""
""President and CEO, members of the Board and our Corporate Secretary, alongside representatives  of our Investor Relations, Human Resources and Environmental and Sustainability teams, also regularly  engage with a wide range of other stakeholders on sustainability matters pertinent to Oxy—including  climate-related risks and opportunities. These engagements include our approach to carbon management  and the policies, technologies and market mechanisms that advance our net-zero goals and those of""
""other  industry sectors. We welcome and consider feedback from shareholders and other stakeholders on our  performance, engagement and reporting. This process informs our sustainability strategy and programs, which helps us to improve transparency  and report on the issues that matter most to our stakeholders. Oxy’s strong community engagement promotes deep relationships that benefit our communities, our  workforce and our shareholders. We recognize and respect our neighbors and local community""
""relationships with our neighbors. Oxy also engages with host governments, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), non-profit  organizations, unions, community leaders, and other stakeholders to advocate for policies that serve  the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) relevant to our businesses and the goals of the Paris  Agreement. We believe these collaborations position Oxy, our shareholders and our communities for  success and reinforce our reputation as a respected Partner of Choice®.""
""Members of the Oxy and 1PointFive teams with Bill Gates at King Ranch, Tx Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 10  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 11 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES Committed to Good: Contributions to Sustainable Development  Oxy’s sustainability strategy leverages the UN SDGs applicable to our businesses. These goals act as a blueprint for member states to advance peace and prosperity for people and the planet. While the SDGs apply  directly to""
""countries, businesses can help governments further these goals through investments in communities, the goods and services produced, and stewardship of natural resources and the environment. Oxy endeavors to contribute to the following SDGs which are embedded in our HSE&S Principles and underpin our approach to the Sustainability Pillars: Principles of Governance, People, Planet and Prosperity. These SDGs provide us with a complementary framework to communicate and enhance our supportive role""
""with local communities and host governments. As reflected in our HSE&S Principles and Human Rights  Policy, Oxy incorporates the SDGs into our sustainability strategy and seeks to identify additional opportunities in areas where we operate to help countries, regions and communities make progress toward achieving  these goals. In designing and carrying out our projects, we closely consider their social and environmental attributes, in addition to the products, services, infrastructure and""
""economic benefits that our investments  generate. While Oxy focuses on these SDGs, for which we believe we can make a greater societal contribution, we also evaluate opportunities to advance additional SDGs in our operations and investments. SDG 3: Good Health and Well-Being SDG 6: Clean Water and Sanitation SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth SDG 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Production SDG 13: Climate Action""
""SDG 17: Partnerships for the Goals  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 12 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES Oxy’s focused sustainability strategy has garnered recognition, including: Oxy was listed as a constituent company in the FTSE4Good Index Series. As of 2023 Oxy received an MSCI ESG Rating of A.   Oxy received an A- score from CDP for climate disclosure at CDP’s  Leadership Level, tied for the top score in the global exploration and  production (E&P)""
""industry.       OxyChem received +Vantage Vinyl™ Gold certification from the Vinyl  Sustainability Council (VSC). OxyChem secured a Bronze medal from EcoVadis, a key sustainability rating organization.  OxyChem received 77 safety and environmental awards from leading trade organizations.  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 13 We launched a new Talent Engagement and Employee Experience team focused on enhancing employee engagement. PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT""
""APPENDICES Performance Highlights and Progress on our Sustainability Pillars  In 2023, Oxy achieved significant progress in our sustainability  strategy of building shared value across our portfolio of high- performance energy production, essential chemistry and  carbon innovation. Oxy added enhanced mental health support to our generous health, financial and work-life benefits available to our employees, spouses or domestic partners,  and dependents.    Our employee Total Recordable Injury Rate""
""(TRIR) for 2023 was 0.21, a 19% improvement from 2022 (0.26). We engaged with shareholders representing ~60% of our average shares outstanding in 2023. We were honored to be recognized by Fortune in 2023 as one  of the World’s Most Admired Companies, ranking No. 1 in the  Mining, Crude-Oil Production category. Oxy has made the list  every reported year since 2008 and has achieved the No. 1  ranking 13 times.  ~23.5% of our U.S. employees experienced internal job moves due to promotions and""
""transfers. In the past two years, Oxy’s Board added three new independent directors with valuable and diverse skills and experiences: Vicky A. Bailey, Claire O’Neill and Kenneth Robinson.  48% of our college hires were conversions from our intern program.    Our President and CEO, Vicki Hollub, was named Energy  Executive of the Year by leading energy information company  Energy Intelligence.    Oxy continues to be a leader in carbon management and major projects, applying our skills to the""
""development of crucial infrastructure for the net-zero transition—including our first  commercial DAC facility, STRATOS. Talent Attraction, Retention and Advancement: Safety: Empowered by our HSE&S Policy, HSE&S Principles and Operating Management System (OMS), Oxy’s workforce continued to deliver strong sustainability performance. Highlights for each of our Sustainability Pillars in 2023 are below: GOVERNANCE PEOPLE  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 14 Carbon Innovation: PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY""
""GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES Oxy reduced Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions by ~20.4% from 2019 and ~2.6% from 2022. Oxy reduced methane emissions by ~65.2% from 2019 and ~15.9% from 2022. Oxy acquired full ownership of Carbon Engineering, the technology developer behind the STRATOS facility and a leading name in carbon removal research and  development.  ~96% of the total water withdrawn by Oxy’s U.S. oil and gas operations came from non-fresh sources. Oxy entered into a joint""
""venture agreement with BlackRock which provides $550 million of committed investment for the development of the STRATOS facility.  Oxy subsidiary 1PointFive commenced the Front-End Engineering and Design (FEED) for the DAC facility at the South Texas DAC Hub. Oxy achieved a ~67% reduction in routine flaring for global oil and gas operations from our 2020 baseline.  OxyChem implemented numerous water usage reduction projects throughout its facilities, resulting in the reduction of about ~1.19""
""million barrels of water  usage. Water Stewardship: DIB: Our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) hosted more than 14 events. Oxy’s Vice President of Diversity and Inclusion, Angela Johnson, won the National MLK Leadership Award from the Energy Diversity & Inclusion Council. PLANET GHG Emissions: Oxy was recognized by the Oil and Gas Methane Partnership (OGMP) 2.0 as achieving the Gold Standard pathway based on a credible implementation plan.  At COP28, Oxy was an original signatory to the Oil and""
""Gas Decarbonization Charter (OGDC) and committed funding to the World Bank’s Global Flaring and  Methane Reduction (GFMR) Partnership.   OxyChem maintained zero reportable PVC resin spills across its PVC manufacturing sites. Our Oman South operations treated and recycled ~90% of their produced water to generate steam for enhanced oil recovery, while Oman North operations  treated and recycled about ~85% of their produced water for water flooding in enhanced oil recovery. ~97% of the total water""
""withdrawn by Oxy’s global oil and gas operations came from non-fresh sources.  PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES Biodiversity: Oxy has enrolled more than 1.6 million acres under various conservation agreements, which promote collaborative on-the-ground conservation and  restoration initiatives for various species and their habitats.   Oxy currently manages six sites certified by the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC) Conservation Certification® in Kansas,""
""people living in remote villages and settlements across our operating areas. OxyChem sponsored a pioneering study in Tanzania to determine how the societal and environmental benefits of access to clean water contribute to the UN SDGs. Powder River Basin, WY Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 15  > 99% EMPLOYEES COMPLETED THE  CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT  CERTIFICATION INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS 9 YEARS 25+ Code of Business  Conduct Legacy  BOARD COMMITTEES 5 Oxy prides itself on rigorous oversight of""
""sustainability planning, practices and reporting.  GOVERNANCE • Executing on Updated HSE&S Principles • Integrating Important Global Frameworks  • Leading Progress in Low-Carbon Projects In 2023, Oxy maintained proactive governance of sustainability matters. The company  continues to make strong progress integrating ESG criteria into our strategic planning and  decision-making processes. Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 16 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES  Oxy""
""Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES Board Composition and Practices Enterprise Risk Management Cybersecurity   Business Ethics and Human Rights Public Policy Engagement and Lobbying Oxy’s Operating Management System GOVERNANCE Our Board of Directors and senior management are committed to high standards of ethical conduct, institutional integrity and effective corporate governance  throughout our businesses and worldwide operations.""
""Our governance structure supports our drive to create value for our shareholders and benefit our  communities and society as a sustainable energy leader. Our Board holds our leadership accountable with criteria that reflect our company’s mission, vision and  core values; our commitment to ethical behavior under our Code of Business Conduct; and our attention to assessing risk and internal controls. We implement  responsible policies and robust management systems, including our OMS, to foster and""
""reinforce business practices that are consistently sound, highly  principled and transparent. Our governance policies are reviewed and updated periodically to reflect changing laws and regulations, evolving leading practices and shareholder feedback. Strong Governance Our Focus Principles of Governance Active Oversight of Relevant Sustainability Matters Risk Management Dedication to Respecting and Upholding Human Rights Transparency on Public Policy Engagement Varying perspectives in the""
""boardroom by virtue of diverse director backgrounds, experiences, qualifications, skills, genders, ethnicities and tenures. The S&SE Committee provides oversight of key sustainability and social responsibility issues and oversees Oxy’s external reporting on such matters,  including climate-related risks and opportunities, the political contributions policy and the charitable contributions program. Applying our OMS and Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program across sustainability risks and""
""opportunities. We operate in accordance with universally recognized rights and freedoms as provided in our Code of Business Conduct and our Human Rights Policy. Maintaining transparency on our position on climate-related policies, political engagement, lobbying and engagement with trade associations and  industry groups. The Environmental, Health and Safety (EH&S) Committee of the Board oversees and reviews the status of HSE issues, including compliance with applicable  laws and regulations, the""
""OMS and remediation projects. 17  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES GOVERNANCE Board Composition and Practices Enterprise Risk Management Cybersecurity   Business Ethics and Human Rights Public Policy Engagement and Lobbying Oxy’s Operating Management System Board Composition and Practices  Oxy’s diverse and highly qualified Board is led by an independent Chair. The structure and operation of the Board is defined by Oxy’s""
""corporate governance  policies, and the Board is committed to strong corporate governance and director refreshment to help promote diverse leadership and expertise.   The Board oversees Oxy’s corporate governance, strategy and risk management, including climate-related and other sustainability risks and opportunities,  and our HSE performance. These matters are incorporated into regular Board and committee meetings, as well as the Board’s annual strategic review session,  as central elements of""
""Oxy’s strategic planning. In addition, the Board’s committee structure is designed to help ensure the Board and its committees have the  appropriate oversight of relevant sustainability issues.    Directors are provided with continuing education,  including business-specific learning opportunities  through site visits and briefing sessions led by  internal experts or third parties on topics that  are relevant to Oxy. These sessions are coupled  with continued briefings on climate-related risks""
""and opportunities from the OLCV team and other  members of management on Oxy’s Net-Zero  Strategy, our GHG emissions and associated  reporting, as well as pertinent legislative and  regulatory updates. Directors are also encouraged  to attend additional continuing education  programs designed to enhance the  performance and competencies of individual  directors and the Board.   Each new director is provided with extensive  onboarding materials and information covering  director responsibilities,""
""its committees with oversight of specific risks  tailored to each committee’s area of focus. Each  committee meets regularly with management  to review compliance with existing policies  and procedures, and to discuss changes or  improvements that may be warranted.  Director Engagement Strategy Oversight  Risk Oversight   Oxy Board members touring Permian drilling site 18  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES GOVERNANCE Board""
""Composition and Practices Enterprise Risk Management Cybersecurity   Business Ethics and Human Rights Public Policy Engagement and Lobbying Oxy’s Operating Management System Audit Committee Corporate Governance and  Nominating Committee Environmental, Health and Safety Committee Executive Compensation  Committee Sustainability and  Shareholder Engagement  Committee Risk and Opportunity Oversight To augment the Board’s strategic risk management responsibilities, the Board has empowered its""
""membership and Board, committee and individual director performance evaluations Oversees external reporting on ESG and sustainability matters, including climate-related risks and opportunities Oversees compliance with applicable HSE laws and regulations Oversees the risk assessment related to the company’s compensation policies and programs applicable to  executive officers and other employees, including the determination of whether any such policies and programs  encourage unnecessary or""
""results of internal compliance reviews Oversees remediation projects Oversees Oxy’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program and Code of Business Conduct compliance program 19  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES GOVERNANCE Board Composition and Practices Enterprise Risk Management Cybersecurity   Business Ethics and Human Rights Public Policy Engagement and Lobbying Oxy’s Operating Management System Role of Management Senior""
""facing Oxy. 20  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES GOVERNANCE Board Composition and Practices Enterprise Risk Management Cybersecurity   Business Ethics and Human Rights Public Policy Engagement and Lobbying Oxy’s Operating Management System Based on shareholder feedback, the Compensation Committee maintained the sustainability metric weighting for the 2023 Annual Cash Incentive (ACI) Award  at 30% to continue advancing the""
""company’s Net-Zero Strategy and incentivize executives to address Oxy’s Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions in the short term by  including targets focused on emissions reduction projects and low carbon ventures. Emissions Reduction Projects Low Carbon Ventures Complete asset registry of emissions  generating equipment for U.S. onshore oil and  gas operations Complete 30% of construction for Trains 1 and 2 of STRATOS by year-end 2023 Reduce operating emissions Advance carbon management platform Achieve a""
""50% reduction in routine flaring from  Oxy’s 2020 baseline 1 Gulf Coast sequestration hub on track for Class VI permitting by 2025 Deploy at least 5 projects or operational  changes to reduce Scope 1 or 2 GHG or other air emissions Contract STRATOS cumulative offtake of over 1 million tons of CO2 Significant Portion of ACI Award Tied to Sustainability Scope 1 and 2 Targets Scope 3 Targets 21  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES""
""GOVERNANCE Board Composition and Practices Enterprise Risk Management Cybersecurity   Business Ethics and Human Rights Public Policy Engagement and Lobbying Oxy’s Operating Management System Enterprise Risk Management Oxy’s vision to lead the industry and reach for the  impossible, while delivering the essential products  the world needs, takes strong risk management.  ESG performance is integral to Oxy’s overall risk  management and strategic planning processes.  Our ERM program establishes a""
""framework for  how we identify, assess and manage the risks that  may affect our ability to implement our business  strategy. The ERM program’s primary objectives are to: Oxy’s ERM program is central to strategic decision-making and capital planning and promotes safe,  reliable and sustainable operations. Oxy incorporates analyses of short- (1–4 years), medium- (4–12  years) and long-term (beyond 12 years) financial risks of a lower-carbon economy to assess the resilience  of our assets and""
""Identification and Categorization  Risk Review and Validation Risk Assessment Risk Monitoring Plan for operational  challenges Improve risk-based  capital allocation Provide an enterprise-wide  portfolio view of risk ESG performance is integral to Oxy’s overall risk management and strategic planning  processes. The Board provides oversight of, and senior leadership is actively  engaged in managing and assessing, sustainability-related risks and opportunities.  22  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024""
""issuance of new policies. Oxy strives to work with partners, suppliers and contractors who share our  commitment to ethical business practices, health and safety and the well- being of people and the environment. As a part of our compliance program,  Oxy evaluates prospective business partners, contractors, suppliers and  agents and conveys our expectation that they must comply with Oxy policies,  including the Code. For example, our international procurement contracts  include provisions""
""System website. These reports  include Oxy’s direct lobbying expenses (salaries, office rent, etc.), as well as  the portion of the dues paid to trade associations that is used for lobbying  purposes. More details on our climate- and sustainability-related political  and lobbying activities can be found in our Climate Policy Positions and  Climate Advocacy and Engagement documents on oxy.com/sustainability  with information on our general political contribution and lobbying efforts  available on""
""the Political Contributions and Lobbying webpage at oxy.com/investors/governance/political-contributions-and-lobbying. 27  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES GOVERNANCE Board Composition and Practices Enterprise Risk Management Cybersecurity   Business Ethics and Human Rights Public Policy Engagement and Lobbying Oxy’s Operating Management System Climate Policy Positions At Oxy, we recognize the need to lower both GHG emissions""
""and atmospheric concentrations of CO2. Oxy  endorses the goals of the Paris Agreement, including its aim to limit the global temperature increase  to less than 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels, and has developed our Net-Zero Strategy to align with  those goals. Our Climate Report summarizes our Net-Zero Strategy to apply our experience in carbon  management and storage in EOR to develop and commercialize technologies that reduce emissions and  remove CO2 from the atmosphere to advance our net-""
""zero goals and those of the Paris Agreement. We  also recognize the importance of effective public policy as we advance our Net-Zero Strategy, goals and  ambitions. We do not take a prescriptive view as to which policy approach could most efficiently meet society’s  climate goals. Rather, we support a range of policies that aim to achieve the goals of the Paris  Agreement. As noted in Oxy’s Climate Policy Positions, our efforts are focused on policies seeking to  advance technological solutions""
""that can deliver significant reductions in current CO2 emissions and  atmospheric CO2 concentrations by leveraging existing infrastructure, while continuing to supply  consumers with affordable, reliable energy sources and essential products. OLCV and its development company, 1PointFive, are working to commercialize carbon removal  technologies including CCUS and DAC. We believe that these technologies can, with incentives necessary  for their development and deployment, provide essential CO2""
""reductions in the medium term. We believe  maturing compliance and voluntary carbon markets will strengthen carbon pricing signals and expand  commercial pathways for investments in CCUS, DAC and a growing suite of low-carbon products, while  governments evaluate proposals to upgrade or retrofit electricity infrastructure and transportation  systems over the long term. Oxy is committed to being part of the solution to climate change and developed our Net-Zero  Strategy that we believe aligns""
""with the goals of the Paris Agreement. Artist rendering of STRATOS Direct Air Capture facility 28  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES GOVERNANCE Board Composition and Practices Enterprise Risk Management Cybersecurity   Business Ethics and Human Rights Public Policy Engagement and Lobbying Oxy’s Operating Management System OXYPAC Per federal election law, Oxy may not contribute corporate funds directly to U.S. federal candidates""
""Policy, the  Government Affairs Committee must approve all  trade association memberships with annual fees  of $50,000 or more. For associations involved  in federal lobbying, issues on which these  associations lobbied are listed in the disclosure  forms filed by the organizations. These are  available online via the U.S. Senate’s Lobbying  Disclosure Electronic Filing System website. 30  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES""
""providing a consistent, accessible framework  of standards, procedures, guidelines, tools and training for our workforce to  implement Oxy’s HSE&S Policy, advance our HSE&S Principles and identify,  assess and address HSE, social and operational risks across our diverse  business segments, operations and support functions. The evolution to Oxy’s OMS was initiated in 2021 from a spirit of continuous  improvement to build upon Oxy’s longstanding Health, Environment  and Safety Management System.""
""The architecture of the OMS is based  primarily on leading global guidelines in our industry sectors, including the  International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) OMS Framework,  API Energy Excellence® program, American Chemistry Council (ACC)  Responsible Care® program, World Economic Forum (WEF) Stakeholder  Capitalism Metrics and Ipieca Principles, as well as key regulatory programs. The OMS framework is composed of four fundamentals: leadership, risk  management, continuous""
""improvement and implementation. These are  applied to ten elements ranging from commitment and accountability  to asset integrity and design to assurance, review and improvement.  Expectations are set for intended outcomes and organized around the four  sustainability pillars. This framework helps provide a consistent focus on  health and safety, the environment and the communities where we live and  work. The OMS methodology is global, guiding the activities of Oxy’s business  segments and""
""diverse  businesses and assets, and then incorporates regulatory requirements  and standards, procedures and guidelines applicable to specific types of  operations or activities. The OMS incorporates Oxy’s HSE&S risk management  policies and procedures, including those addressing personal safety, process  safety, asset integrity and environmental management. Higher-level risks  are reported, validated and prioritized for potential mitigation through the  management chain of command and reviewed""
""and alignment. Oxy’s Operating Management System 31  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES GOVERNANCE Board Composition and Practices Enterprise Risk Management Cybersecurity   Business Ethics and Human Rights Public Policy Engagement and Lobbying Oxy’s Operating Management System The Oxy OMS is aligned with the framework of the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) and incorporates API’s  Energy Excellence""
""organizes our reporting on HSE&S  topics in the following four Sustainability  Pillars, aligned with the WEF Stakeholder  Capitalism Metrics: Governance, People,  Planet and Prosperity. The Elements organize actions by managers  and employees in Oxy’s operations and  business functions to apply the OMS and its Fundamentals in their daily activities. This graphic shows how Oxy integrates the OMS  Fundamentals, Elements and Pillars to support  HSE&S performance and operational excellence  and""
""advance our sustainability strategy. 32  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES GOVERNANCE Board Composition and Practices Enterprise Risk Management Cybersecurity   Business Ethics and Human Rights Public Policy Engagement and Lobbying Oxy’s Operating Management System The OMS helps Oxy’s workforce as we strive to fulfill our mission, vision and core values  across our diverse businesses everywhere we operate. Outperform""
""The site also offers “micro-learnings” that help provide quick, easily  understood information, insight and context into HSE&S-related subject matter. Oxy managers or  supervisors and HSE&S professionals are also equipped to answer questions about how to implement the  OMS in their operation or facility. Continuous Improvement OMS Training and Learning Resources 33  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES GOVERNANCE 34 Board""
""continues to play an important role.  As part of our in-country value (ICV) strategy, Oxy identifies and engages with small and medium-sized businesses with the potential to deliver strong  support for Oxy’s local operations. Oxy Oman’s OMS provides a framework that helps these suppliers and service providers meet quality, HSE and  sustainability guidelines.  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES GOVERNANCE 35 Board Composition and""
""Practices Enterprise Risk Management Cybersecurity   Business Ethics and Human Rights Public Policy Engagement and Lobbying Oxy’s Operating Management System HIGHLIGHT International Operations Integrate Third-Party Certifications into Their OMS Wherever Oxy operates, we help set the standard for safe and environmentally responsible operations and strive to meet the expectations of our  communities and other stakeholders. We bring our passion for innovation, deep experience, robust processes""
""under our OMS and our suite of  technologies to the job. In addition, Oxy maintains third-party certifications including ISO standards at several facilities to support the local OMS. Oxy  Oman’s operations, for example, have received ISO 14001 certification for the environmental management system at the Mukhaizna waste management  facility in South Oman, as well as ISO 39001, 45001 and 50001 certifications in both North and South Oman for road traffic safety, occupational health and  safety and""
""energy management systems, respectively. OxyChem’s plants in the United States, Niagara Falls, Canada and Talcahuano, Chile are certified  under ISO 9001 and other standards associated with their assurance programs for various products they manufacture. In addition, OxyChem’s Chilean  plant is certified under ISO 14001. By maintaining these certifications, numerous Oxy facilities help reinforce the OMS, compliance programs and internal  quality assurance processes and support dialogue with host""
""governments, customers and other stakeholders. OxyChem Chile office  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES GOVERNANCE Board Composition and Practices Enterprise Risk Management Cybersecurity   Business Ethics and Human Rights Public Policy Engagement and Lobbying Oxy’s Operating Management System Clarify objectives of the activity, organize  appropriate resources and engage relevant  stakeholders. Identify risks and potential""
""and Personal Development  • Powerful Innovations in HSE  • Thriving Diversity and Inclusion  • Robust Emergency Planning  • New Milestones in Health and Wellness In 2023, Oxy continued to enhance the employee experience and performance through:  PEOPLE Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 37 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES Human Capital and Workforce""
""our employees 38  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PEOPLE Human Capital and Workforce Development Health and Safety  Process Safety and Asset Integrity Emergency Preparedness and Response  Promoting Transportation Safety Product Stewardship Attracting, Retaining and Advancing Top Talent Bringing in the Best  of 2023 college hires were conversions  from our intern program.  ATTRACT RETAIN ADVANCE 48% Interns at Oxy Contribute""
""meaningfully to work that matters Collaborate with real-world teams solving tough problems  Perform work directly relating to their field of study Access exclusive, leading-edge technologies Work on groundbreaking projects 39  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PEOPLE Human Capital and Workforce Development Health and Safety  Process Safety and Asset Integrity Emergency Preparedness and Response  Promoting Transportation Safety""
""qualifications. We are currently developing one of only a handful of technical apprenticeships in  the field of Direct Air Capture. 40  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PEOPLE Human Capital and Workforce Development Health and Safety  Process Safety and Asset Integrity Emergency Preparedness and Response  Promoting Transportation Safety Product Stewardship Oxy values a diversity of backgrounds, experience and thought to yield""
""citizens  in positions from entry-level to executive management. 41  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PEOPLE Human Capital and Workforce Development Health and Safety  Process Safety and Asset Integrity Emergency Preparedness and Response  Promoting Transportation Safety Product Stewardship Competitive Compensation and Benefits By committing to employees through competitive salaries, performance  incentives and plentiful""
""Studies have shown a direct  correlation between infant health and the paid leave of a parent,  including reduced risk of numerous adverse health conditions.  For this reason, and because it’s the right thing to do, we give our  employees and their families this essential support when they need it most. 42  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PEOPLE Human Capital and Workforce Development Health and Safety  Process Safety and""
""professional lives. *For eligible office-based employees. 43  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PEOPLE Human Capital and Workforce Development Health and Safety  Process Safety and Asset Integrity Emergency Preparedness and Response  Promoting Transportation Safety Product Stewardship Midland Technical Training Center Oxy is dedicated to empowering our people to make the most of their careers  and capabilities. To that end, we""
""personalized support. Delivering Comprehensive Workforce Development 44  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PEOPLE Human Capital and Workforce Development Health and Safety  Process Safety and Asset Integrity Emergency Preparedness and Response  Promoting Transportation Safety Product Stewardship Technical Development and Rotation Programs Oxy Engineering  Development Program Geoscience Rotation Program Operations and""
""selected and  associated disciplines,  business focus and employee  interest. The program involves  individualized technical  mentoring, including on- location opportunities. With  dedicated support, the program  helps participants thrive and  add value early in their careers. Our geoscience workforce  identifies new hydrocarbon  and CO2 storage resources and  improves economic returns.  This four- to five-year program  for early career geoscientists  helps provide an advantage  through improved""
""leaders,  providing participants a  week-long comprehensive  assessment of knowledge gaps  so they can help round out  their understanding through  focused workshops and other  training opportunities. These  programs are custom designed  and delivered by Oxy’s expert  Training and Development  staff along with subject matter  experts from various functions  and business units. 45  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PEOPLE Human""
""led by a select group of Fellows and Principals who work directly with senior management rather than trying to  become them. Now in its fourth year, the Strategic Technical Excellence Program (STEP) continues to gain momentum. By designating Oxy’s technical leaders as Fellows  and Principals, the program provides career paths in technical disciplines beyond a management track in a way that supports fulfilling careers and  ongoing organizational knowledge-sharing. 46  Oxy Sustainability Report""
""more 47  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PEOPLE Human Capital and Workforce Development Health and Safety  Process Safety and Asset Integrity Emergency Preparedness and Response  Promoting Transportation Safety Product Stewardship Promoting Work-Life Balance HIGHLIGHT In April 2023, OxyHealth partnered with and supported Team Oxy for the Texas MS150 ride. The largest single annual fundraiser for the National Multiple""
""Sclerosis Society, the ride involved 62 Oxy riders tackling the two-day, 150-mile open road course, raising $185,000 in 2023 and reaching cumulative  donations of $1.96 million total during Team Oxy’s 21-year participation history. 48  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PEOPLE Human Capital and Workforce Development Health and Safety  Process Safety and Asset Integrity Emergency Preparedness and Response  Promoting Transportation""
""periodic gauging of employee sentiment to the leading practice of ongoing data collection and analysis. This approach helps our  Human Resources leadership address issues promptly as they arise, solve challenges proactively and tailor solutions and communications more closely to  individual employee needs. Oxy plans to increase employee engagement surveys to create more robust action plans across a variety of business functions. 49  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY""
""expectations and maximize results. Our holistic approach  to DIB extends to our suppliers. Read more on our Diverse Business Inclusion program. 50  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PEOPLE Human Capital and Workforce Development Health and Safety  Process Safety and Asset Integrity Emergency Preparedness and Response  Promoting Transportation Safety Product Stewardship Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging Strategy Oxy’s culture of""
""programs Workplace Culture Educate, equip and  activate leaders to cultivate  a culture of DIB across the  organization Train and create  awareness of DIB principles Optimize Employee  Engagement and Employee  Resource Groups through  consistent DIB branding,  communications and  collaboration International DIB rollout Community &  Engagement Align DIB and Community  efforts to enhance both  programs Serve our surrounding  communities through social  and sustainability actions Engage External""
""company make better informed and timely decisions while promoting a  more inclusive culture and satisfying work experience for our employees. 52  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PEOPLE Human Capital and Workforce Development Health and Safety  Process Safety and Asset Integrity Emergency Preparedness and Response  Promoting Transportation Safety Product Stewardship FEBRUARY BEN Virtual Conversation with Paula Harris Paula M.""
""either as a member or an  ally. They are a valuable employee resource, providing advocacy and awareness, offering support and strengthening the sense of inclusion and belonging within  the organization. All Oxy ERGs were active during 2023 with numerous milestones, events and programs.  53  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PEOPLE Human Capital and Workforce Development Health and Safety  Process Safety and Asset Integrity""
""encompasses hazard identification, risk assessment and control measures to mitigate risks, as well as  contractor management and safety engagement to drive essential HSE&S programs and tools at the  worksite. Emergency preparedness, incident management and industrial hygiene programs are also  included in this comprehensive system.  Consistent with the OMS elements, Oxy utilizes a multidisciplinary internal assurance program,  supplemented by external assessments. This assurance program,""
""Voluntary Protection Programs (VPP). These credentials are examples  of our application of leading health and safety programs for our employees and the communities where  we operate. Read more on our sites with third-party certifications. 54  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PEOPLE Human Capital and Workforce Development Health and Safety  Process Safety and Asset Integrity Emergency Preparedness and Response  Promoting""
""repercussions, to prevent a health,  safety or environmental incident.  55  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PEOPLE Human Capital and Workforce Development Health and Safety  Process Safety and Asset Integrity Emergency Preparedness and Response  Promoting Transportation Safety Product Stewardship 56 Reflecting the diversity of our operations, Oxy’s oil and gas subsidiaries and  OxyChem apply health and safety programs under""
""the OMS that are tailored  to their operations. Oxy’s 10 Life-Saving Rules, aligned with those of the  IOGP, are fundamental to how we work safely in our oil and gas operations.  Adherence to our Life-Saving Rules is mandatory and represents a strict  obligation to perform work safely at our locations. These clearly defined  actions help prevent serious injuries and fatalities across our employee and  contractor base. Routine communication and training on the Life-Saving  Rules are provided to""
""employees and contractors through safety engagement  forums. These straightforward concepts are useful in everyday life outside of  work as well. OxyChem’s 5 Key Procedures is a similar program that focuses attention  in chemical plants on confined space entry, hot work, equipment opening/  line breaks, energy isolation/lockout-tagout, and fall protection. OxyChem’s  Core-4 Verification process supports the 5 Key Procedures as part of the  Work Authorization Permit system and addresses job""
""scope, hazards, energy  isolation and verifying zero energy.  We also recognize safety needs are dynamic and actively address shifts in  physical risks such as climate or weather conditions. For example, our Gulf  of Mexico teams recently updated the Heat Stress Management Program in  recognition of the seasonality of this hazard, with a focus during May through  September including awareness, prevention, monitoring and response. Oxy also implements a Behavior-Based Safety (BBS) observation""
""extensive safety resources and guidelines.  At the job site, contractor safety is monitored and audited in real time. Their  safety performance is carefully tracked and analyzed to provide constructive  feedback and considered in future procurement and supply chain decisions. Oxy monitors workplace environments to prevent occupational illnesses  and injuries. This includes air quality monitoring, noise level assessments  and ergonomics programs to reduce musculoskeletal strain. Our nearby""
""implementing new  tools and technologies and improving workforce  effectiveness. For international and Gulf of Mexico  operations, our 2024 safety focus includes core  safety programs for employees and contractors,  targeted training, safety technology and  continued workforce engagement between Oxy  and contractor leadership. Oman North  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PEOPLE Human Capital and Workforce Development Health and""
""Safety  Process Safety and Asset Integrity Emergency Preparedness and Response  Promoting Transportation Safety Product Stewardship 58 HIGHLIGHT In 2023, the Chlorine Institute recognized seven OxyChem plants for their exemplary commitment to safety, marking significant achievements in both  personal and process safety across the company. These awards are part of the Chlorine Institute’s Safety and Environmental Performance Recognition  program, aimed at fostering zero incidents, injuries and""
""releases. John Brenon, OxyChem’s Senior Vice President of Manufacturing, noted that “we are committed to the protection of our people, our communities and  the environment and these awards recognize that safety is our top priority each and every day. I am proud of our seven facilities for their consistent  dedication, attention to detail on every task, and overall commitment to maintain a safe work environment.” OxyChem Achieves Recognition for Exceptional Safety Performance  from the Chlorine""
""Institute   Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PEOPLE Human Capital and Workforce Development Health and Safety  Process Safety and Asset Integrity Emergency Preparedness and Response  Promoting Transportation Safety Product Stewardship  Ingleside Plant team awarded The Chlorine Institute Platinum Personal Safety Achievement Award Taft Plant team awarded The Chlorine Institute Platinum Personal and Process Safety Achievement""
""Awards. 59 The awards celebrated achievements with varying levels of recognition based on the duration of each accomplishment within the chlor-alkali process: Bronze Level Personal Performance:  Convent Plant, for zero recordable  injuries for more than one year Silver Level Process Safety Performance:  Wichita Plant, for zero RQ incidents for  two years Platinum Level Personal Performance:  Ingleside, New Johnsonville and Taft  Plants, for maintaining zero recordable  injuries for four or more""
""years Bronze Level Process Safety  Performance: Convent Plant, for zero RQ  incidents for more than one year Platinum Level Process Safety  Performance: Battleground, Taft and  Talcahuano Plants, for zero reportable  quantity (RQ) incidents for four or more years Durable Safety Performance  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PEOPLE Human Capital and Workforce Development Health and Safety  Process Safety and Asset Integrity""
""reaffirming its commitment to operational  excellence. The Ludington Plant is distinguished as one of only 26 Michigan VPP STAR locations since first achieving this status in 2002. Tarah Kile,  MIOSHA CET Division Director, commended the facility, stating “OxyChem Ludington exemplifies the integration of safety into their corporate culture,  significantly enhancing workplace conditions and employee morale.” OxyChem Ludington Plant Renews Prestigious Safety Status  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024""
""month and presented to the Better Mousetrap Committee. Winners receive an  award during regular contractor safety meetings and are also granted points within the SEMP scorecard that raise their standing as an Oxy contractor of  choice. HIGHLIGHT  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PEOPLE Human Capital and Workforce Development Health and Safety  Process Safety and Asset Integrity Emergency Preparedness and Response  Promoting""
""Transportation Safety Product Stewardship 62 Process Safety and Asset Integrity   Oxy is recognized as a Partner of Choice® for safety and asset integrity.  Our process safety management (PSM) and asset integrity programs are  designed to protect personnel, assets, communities and the environment  while improving the operational reliability of equipment and systems.  Individual business segments implement timely, worksite-specific and  actionable measures designed to comply with local""
""regulations and meet the  performance goals applicable to their unique circumstances. Our teams work  diligently to select, design and construct assets that are suitable for their  purpose or task. Ongoing mechanical integrity inspection and maintenance  of key equipment and quality assurance help assets remain fit for service  over their lifecycle. U.S. facility processes are designed to comply with applicable regulations  of OSHA, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Bureau of""
""Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE), as well as applicable state  regulations. In addition to external regulations, our processes are guided  by the OMS to proactively identify and mitigate process risks and sustain  process safety within the guidelines of the equipment and system design.  For facilities with other regulatory obligations, programs parallel the  PSM elements laid out by OSHA, while incorporating local needs. We  base protocols on leading industry frameworks, codes and""
""professional  organizations including the API, the IOGP, the Center for Chemical Process  Safety and the Association for Materials Protection and Performance, among others.  Business segments conduct regular audits, applying tools and guidance  from leading industry practices and from national, state and local regulatory  agencies. We evaluate health and safety, process safety and environmental  permitting and controls, as well as the methods we use to inspect, test and  maintain our equipment""
""and monitoring devices.  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PEOPLE Human Capital and Workforce Development Health and Safety  Process Safety and Asset Integrity Emergency Preparedness and Response  Promoting Transportation Safety Product Stewardship 63 Our Asset Integrity management system is used throughout our sites,  involving operations, facilities engineering, major projects, construction,  supply chain, business planning""
""computing technologies to  analyze big-data sets to identify and prioritize trends, model various  maintenance scenarios and isolate specific data sets for in-depth analysis an enhanced data management system that helps to integrate  facilities engineering, mechanical integrity, corrosion management,  maintenance and other data to optimize maintenance turnarounds  on an enterprise-wide basis the leveraging of existing data to support consistent, timely and  efficient process hazard analysis""
""using enhanced software and associated dashboards. Our performance in PSM and asset integrity is the result of decades of  consistent investments in these functions. Oxy teams prioritize safety in  day-to-day operations, as reflected in our recent projects to: Process Safety and Asset Integrity  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PEOPLE Human Capital and Workforce Development Health and Safety  Process Safety and Asset Integrity""
""emergency response by the company  through comprehensive risk assessments that evaluate operational and  external factors. Historical incident data, current operational practices and  potential environmental impacts are analyzed to identify vulnerabilities that  lead to emergency scenarios requiring mitigation and response. Our proactive  EP&R strategy is enhanced through obtaining diverse perspectives and input  from stakeholders, including local first responders industry experts and""
""regulatory bodies. Ongoing improvement based on monitoring, after-action  reporting and sharing of lessons learned helps the company to effectively  manage risks in a dynamic global operational environment.   Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PEOPLE Human Capital and Workforce Development Health and Safety  Process Safety and Asset Integrity Emergency Preparedness and Response  Promoting Transportation Safety Product Stewardship""
""annual Oil Spill Response Plan exercise. In this comprehensive, realistic simulation, our GoM HSE team  created an exercise scenario that addressed platform fires and Search and Rescue operations in an effort to increase readiness for these higher-risk activities.  The exercise was held in coordination with the United States Coast Guard, commercial helicopter companies and firefighting professionals. Participants were  not aware of the specifics of the simulated emergency in advance and had to""
""problem solve and communicate as they would in a real-world scenario. The  exercise included expanded Natural Resource Damage Assessment capabilities to apply plans and checklists with natural resource trustees.  At the operational site level, exercises are tailored to specific site risks. These include hands-on response activities, applying our evacuation procedures and  safety protocols and directly engaging the workforce in emergency preparedness. By scheduling and conducting EP&R exercises,""
""and awareness campaigns at both the business segment  and operational site level further help stakeholders understand and utilize these reporting avenues  effectively.  Oxy uses the American Chemistry Council’s Chemical Transportation Emergency Center (CHEMTREC) for  emergency planning and response support. The emergency call center number is listed on our shipping  documents, as well as on the side of railcars. Product Safety Data Sheets (SDS) provide company  identification information which""
""includes our address, CHEMTREC number and Customer Service  number. The Local Emergency Planning Committees also serve at the operational site level as a way for  communities to report incidents or request information about an incident.  Emergency Response and Business Recovery Exercises Emergency Reporting Measures  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PEOPLE Human Capital and Workforce Development Health and Safety  Process""
""equipment, whether by ground,  water or air, to help enhance transportation safety. The majority of our oil  and gas products are delivered in bulk via pipelines or tanker trucks to utility,  refinery or midstream customers who consume or refine our products locally  or export them via double-hulled ocean-going vessels. OxyChem products  are transported to its customers via pipeline, railcar, tanker truck or barge.  Railcars and tank trailers are placarded with appropriate hazard warnings,  and""
""hazard information is provided to the transporter. In addition, OxyChem  products transported in drums, bags and other non-rail or trailer containers  are labeled with product information that follows applicable regulations when  they leave our facilities.   Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PEOPLE Human Capital and Workforce Development Health and Safety  Process Safety and Asset Integrity Emergency Preparedness and Response""
""Road Safety Coalition (PRSC) is a thriving non-profit organization that Oxy continues to support as a key sponsor and Board member. Oxy and the PRSC  take active roles in helping improve road safety. Together, we serve as advocates for road infrastructure improvements at the federal, state and county levels.  This helps our employees and contractors who drive on these roads each day while also serving the communities that depend upon safe and reliable roadways. In addition to advanced solutions""
""technology that alerts both them and others when they are nearing areas that could require  additional PPE. The company is also experimenting with numerous AI and machine learning applications with the potential to help with activities ranging from  processing data more quickly to optimizing asset integrity monitoring. In 2023, Oxy’s Onshore Resources and Carbon Management (ORCM)  business unit held its second “Goldfish Tank” idea challenge. The year’s focus  was on health and safety. Employees""
""from process refinement to powerful partnerships and new technologies.  Enterprise wide, our health and safety efforts often go beyond compliance.  They reflect our values and dedication to being a responsible and sustainable  operator and a Partner of Choice®.  Additional Advanced Safety Technologies  Goldfish Tank Safety Milestones  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PEOPLE Human Capital and Workforce Development Health and""
""areas.  Enabling Community Engagement: ORCM’s Support for First Responders   Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PEOPLE Human Capital and Workforce Development Health and Safety  Process Safety and Asset Integrity Emergency Preparedness and Response  Promoting Transportation Safety Product Stewardship 69 Product Stewardship Product stewardship is one of the cornerstones of OxyChem’s business,  and the company’s rigorous programs""
""have helped it earn a reputation as  an industry leader. OxyChem’s product stewardship systems promote the  safe and knowledgeable use of its products throughout the world, as well as  consistent compliance with product-related regulations.  As an active member of the ACC, OxyChem has implemented the ACC’s  Responsible Care® Principles and the codes and standards of the ACC,  the Chlorine Institute and the Vinyl Institute. The ACC’s Responsible Care®  program helps member companies significantly""
""enhance their performance,  deliver high-quality products, identify new business opportunities, safeguard  workers and communities and improve environmental quality. The program  is structured around a set of specific HSE metrics with performance goals  that are often more stringent than corresponding government requirements.  Conformance is verified through internal and external audits.  OxyChem assesses the health and safety of the products and byproducts that  it manufactures in accordance""
""with the ACC’s Responsible Care® program  and applicable international, federal and state laws and regulations. These  assessments are used to generate product labeling and SDS that provide  comprehensive product information, including chemical composition, use of  PPE, instructions for safe handling and environmental and health information  in accordance with OSHA requirements. OxyChem’s Customer and Technical  Service departments provide support to customers on the safe and  environmentally""
""responsible handling and use of products. Under the ACC’s  Responsible Care® program and ISO 9001 certification, a set of international  standards on quality management and quality assurance, OxyChem surveys  its customers annually to identify opportunities to improve products and  services.   OxyChem Ingleside Ethylene Cracker  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES Oxy is helping develop real-world projects,  innovations and""
""solutions for a lower-carbon future.  PLANET • Groundbreaking Projects • New Technology Developments  • Developing New Energy Supplies • Enhanced Operational Efficiencies  • Smart Ways to Reduce Waste • Game-Changing Partnerships In 2023, Oxy and our partners made progress across a number of initiatives that impact the  company’s environmental stewardship, advance our Net-Zero Strategy and more. MM ACRES > 1.6 Enrolled in conservation  agreements ~ 20% Reduction in freshwater consumption since""
""2019 ~ 65% Reduction in methane emissions since 2019 ~ 67% Reduction in 2023 routine gas  flaring from 2020 baseline Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 70 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water""
""Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation Environmental Stewardship We integrate these activities through rigorous policies and procedures that are  designed to promote compliance with environmental laws, regulations and internal  standards. Oxy applies innovative technologies to conserve and reuse resources,  designs facilities to minimize our footprint near communities and ecosystems and  works with stakeholders to preserve habitat and biodiversity.""
""As a company with  long-term investments in our properties, infrastructure and communities, sustaining  environmental quality is central to the long-term prosperity of our businesses. We strive to minimize our operational footprint, protect ecosystems and implement  leading conservation practices. Environmental stewardship is a responsibility of each  member of our workforce.  Oxy’s environmental stewardship practices and performance focus on climate change,  energy use and GHG emissions""
""management, biodiversity and habitat conservation, and  water and waste management. OUR FOCUS GHG emissions and climate change • Reducing, monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions • Managing risks and opportunities of climate change to our company • Advancing innovative technologies and business models to help us and other  leading companies and industry sectors achieve net-zero goals Water stewardship • Reducing freshwater consumption • Expanding water reuse and recycling""
""Biodiversity and habitat conservation • Promoting species conservation and habitat restoration through   public-private partnerships Oxy is committed to responsible environmental  stewardship in accordance with our HSE&S Principles  and HSE&S Policy. We have a long-standing policy  to seek improvement in resource conservation and  recovery, pollution prevention and energy efficiency, and  to work to responsibly remediate impacts from legacy  operations or historic waste management practices.""
""Platteville, CO 71  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET 72 Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation Climate Strategy: Building to Net Zero Oxy recognizes the significant challenge climate change poses to our  society""
""and is committed to be part of the solution. We are leveraging our  experience in carbon management and storage, essential chemistry and  major infrastructure projects in our plan to achieve net zero and accelerate  progress on the global climate goals of the Paris Agreement.  We are dedicated to bringing together people, resources, innovative  technology and our 50+ year legacy of carbon management in EOR to  accelerate our Net-Zero Strategy, as well as helping others do the same. As  the first""
""U.S. oil and gas producer to establish net-zero emissions goals for  our operations and products (Scopes 1, 2 and 3) aligned with the goals of the  Paris Agreement, we have taken a leadership role in developing solutions to  accelerate the transition toward a lower-carbon economy.  In 2023, we continued advancing our DAC solutions and CO2 sequestration  hubs. We believe both are essential to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement  while supporting the diverse energy supply that society needs. We""
""also made  progress on investments, projects and partnerships to develop multiple  pathways toward net zero to advance the goals of the Paris Agreement.  Our strategy employs four key elements to achieve net-zero emissions in our  operations and energy use before 2040, and in our total emissions inventory  including the use of our products before 2050.   Accelerating Carbon Innovation: Real Projects. Real Progress. Over the past year, we have continued to progress our  Net-Zero Strategy to:""
""Revolutionize technologies to help abate GHG emissions Remove CO2 directly from the atmosphere through DAC Reuse and recycle CO2 to generate low-carbon transportation fuels, electricity  and other products  Reduce GHG emissions from our operations Carbon Engineering’s Innovation Centre in British Columbia, Canada  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET Supporting Global Climate Initiatives At Oxy, we are taking action toward""
""our net-zero goals by both working to  decarbonize our own operations and progressing technologies that are  designed to help others do the same. Oxy was the first U.S. oil and gas company  to align to the goals of the Paris Agreement by setting a net-zero target for all  GHG Scopes before 2050 and the first U.S oil and gas company to endorse the  World Bank’s 2030 Zero Routine Flaring (ZRF) Initiative. We achieved ZRF in  our U.S. oil and gas operations in 2022, eight years ahead of target, and""
""are on  track to reach the 2030 target in our international operations. At the 2023 UN Climate Change Conference (COP28) in the United Arab  Emirates (UAE), we reinforced our commitment to climate action as an  original signatory to the Oil and Gas Decarbonization Charter, targeting near- zero upstream methane emissions by 2030. We also committed funding to  the World Bank’s Global Flaring and Methane Reduction (GFMR) Partnership,  a multi-donor fund committed to ending routine gas flaring and""
""reducing  methane emissions across the world. COP28 underscored the pivotal role  businesses can play in decarbonizing and scaling up climate solutions. Oxy  is a prime example of a company that recognizes the opportunity to leverage  our unique experience and resources to contribute to a world with sustainable  energy resources in support of UN SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy, UN  SDG 13: Climate Action and UN SDG 17: Partnership for the Goals. Net-Zero Goals Net-zero emissions in our""
""operations and energy use (Scope 1 and 2)*  before 2040, with an ambition to achieve before 2035;  *Even as techniques for estimating and measuring emissions are refined, our Scope 1 and 2  net-zero goal and ambition are intended to cover substantially all (> 95% of) source types of  GHG emissions, emissions avoidance, reductions and removals at facilities that we operate.  Net-zero for our total emissions inventory including product use  (Scope 1, 2 and 3) with an ambition to achieve before""
""2050 Total carbon impact through carbon removal and storage technology  and development past 2050 1 MILLION TONS DAC CO2 SUPPLIED CO2 INJECTED 1 MILLION TONS  DAC CO2  SEQUESTERED CO2 IS SEQUESTERED IN RESERVOIRS OVER 1.5 MILES UNDERGROUND PRODUCING RESERVOIR Up to 20 million tons of CO2  stored per year,  with capability for more INJECTION PRODUCTION NET-ZERO OIL FUEL USED ZERO EMISSION  POWER CO2 CAPTURED Net-Zero Oil: A Pathway to Lower-Carbon Products IPCC and IEA 1.5°C scenarios show 2050""
""oil demand at up to 50% of today’s  levels, specifically for hard-to-abate sectors that will continue to require  liquid fuels and for hydrocarbon feedstocks. A key part of our strategy is  to establish a supply of lower-carbon oil and gas to meet this need with a  decarbonized product. By pairing DAC with our existing infrastructure, we aim to remove an amount  of  CO2 equal to that emitted during the production and consumption of  our products. Alongside our plans to reduce our operational""
""emissions, this  can result in net-zero oil and gas, which can then be used to produce lower- carbon fuels and other essential materials—all with a lower carbon footprint. In 2020, Oxy adopted the following goals to achieve net-zero across our total  emissions inventory in accordance with the goals of the Paris Agreement: 73 Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water""
""Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET Leveraging 50+ Years of CO2 Management Oxy has among the largest CO2 management operations in the world. Our subsurface engineering teams have decades of experience characterizing reservoirs  for CO2 storage in our enhanced oil recovery (EOR) operations. This expertise enables us to broaden our""
""portfolio of subsurface storage options beyond oil and  gas fields to include sequestration hubs using saline formations.  We believe that, collectively, Oxy has amassed one of the most capable and  experienced carbon management teams in the world, with multi-disciplinary  talent in geosciences, engineering, data and spatial sciences and more. With  our 2023 acquisition of leading Direct Air Capture technology provider Carbon  Engineering, Oxy has built on our foundation to bring leading-edge""
""carbon  removal development capabilities in-house.  Our comprehensive, enterprise-wide strategy is predicated on our 50+ years  of experience with integrated carbon management and large-scale carbon  separation, transportation, recycling and storage in EOR to offer future  opportunities to supply lower-carbon products and fuels and, ultimately, Net- Zero Oil. By leveraging this expertise in CO2 infrastructure and subsurface  reservoirs and pairing it with our capabilities in essential chemistry""
""and major  project execution, we are positioned for success in a net-zero economy with  competitive advantages that enhance our existing businesses and set us  apart from our peers. Oxy Low Carbon Ventures (OLCV)  We launched OLCV in 2018 to leverage our industry-leading experience  in managing CO2. The core of OLCV’s strategy is to design and implement  innovative, impactful and globally scalable solutions that help society achieve  carbon neutrality and accelerate the transition to a net-zero""
""economy.  1PointFive focuses on commercializing and deploying DAC and sequestration  technologies at scale to remove CO2 from industrial processes and the  atmosphere, which can then be used to create lower-carbon products like  fuels, chemicals and concrete, or injected into saline formations for long-term  sequestration to help meet our ambitious net-zero goals. 74 Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions""
""Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation Artist rendering of STRATOS Direct Air Capture facility  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES Making Strong  Progress on  STRATOS  PLANET Advancing a Low-Carbon Future in 2023 Oxy is taking bold steps toward a lower-carbon future. We reached several milestones for our low-carbon projects, partnerships and""
""initiatives in 2023.  Continuing  Reductions in  Routine Flaring  Receiving Global  Recognition Exhibiting  Leadership  Progressing Several  Sequestration Sites  Reducing  Operational  Emissions  2023 saw ~48%  completion of  Trains 1 and 2  of our flagship  DAC facility. We  have also signed  STRATOS offtake  agreements  totaling more  than 1 million  metric tons (MT)  of carbon dioxide  removal credits  (CDRs) as of year-end 2023. The company  sustained zero  routine flaring  in U.S. oil and""
""gas operations  and achieved a  ~67% reduction  in routine flaring  globally from our  2020 baseline.   Oxy was awarded an  A- score from CDP  for 2023 climate  disclosure at CDP’s  Leadership Level,  tied for the top score  in the global E&P  industry. We were  also recognized by  OGMP 2.0 as having  achieved the Gold  Standard pathway on  the basis of a credible  implementation plan. Oxy served as an  original signatory  to the OGDC and  committed funding  to the World Bank’s  GFMR""
""Partnership, both  announced at COP28.  Our U.S. onshore oil  and gas operations  also completed their  field asset registry of  emissions-generating  equipment for use in  emissions estimates  and reporting. We drilled  stratigraphic  data wells and  submitted  sequestration  well permit  applications at our  six proposed hub  sites, two of which  were selected for  award negotiations  under the DOE  CarbonSAFE  funding  opportunity.   Oxy implemented key  emissions reduction  projects""
""involving  multiple facility  consolidations,  compressor  electrification and  optimization, expanded  temporary gas storage  and takeaway capacity,  and energy efficiency.  We also removed or  converted all remaining  high-bleed pneumatic  control devices found  in our U.S. onshore  operations.  75 Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management""
""Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET STRATOS DIRECT AIR CAPTURE HISTORY IN THE MAKING During 2023, Oxy achieved significant progress with Worley on the construction of STRATOS, expected to be the largest Direct Air Capture facility  in the world. By year’s end, Trains 1 and 2 had reached 48% completion. STRATOS, located in Ector County, Texas, is expected to be""
""commercially  operational in mid-2025. STRATOS is designed to capture up to 500,000 MT of CO2 per year when fully operational. In 2023, BlackRock agreed to invest $550 million in a joint venture to develop STRATOS through a fund managed by its Diversified Infrastructure  business. In addition, Oxy acquired the remaining interests in Carbon Engineering to further accelerate innovation of DAC technology, drive cost reductions and  capital efficiency improvements, and catalyze broader partnerships""
""for DAC deployment. Learn more about the Carbon Engineering acquisition. 76 Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation HIGHLIGHT  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET International CCUS Development In 2023, Oxy signed a""
""Memorandum of Understanding with the Abu Dhabi  National Oil Company (ADNOC) to evaluate participation in DAC facilities  and CO2 sequestration hubs in the United States and the UAE, including  a one million metric ton per year DAC facility in the UAE. Additionally, Oxy  signed a Memorandum of Understanding with OQ Gas Networks SAOC, the  sole transporter of natural gas in Oman, to jointly study the development of  potential CCUS projects in Oman in conjunction with Oxy’s EOR projects. Learn""
""more about international CCUS development. Development of Carbon Sinks In addition to sequestration of CO2 in saline formations, scale-up of  unconventional EOR using anthropogenic CO2 is a key part of Oxy’s Net-Zero  Strategy. By using anthropogenic CO2 in our vast EOR operations, where  a high percentage is sequestered in the oil and gas reservoir, we seek to  significantly reduce the carbon intensity of oil production and contribute  further to mitigating GHG emissions. Oxy has a medium-term""
""target to facilitate geologic storage or use of  25 million MT of captured CO2e per year by 2032. Oxy received the first  Monitoring, Reporting and Verification (MRV) approval from the EPA in 2015  to utilize anthropogenic CO2 in our EOR fields in the Permian and has now  received four MRV approvals, with the subsequent approvals occurring in  2017, 2019 and 2023. MRV plans are designed so that our operations are  securely sequestering CO2 into our oil and gas reservoirs. These approved  MRV""
""fields provide the geologic pore space to effectively sequester CO2  at scale while delivering reliability via a network of interconnected CO2  pipelines. The U.S. Gulf Coast and the Permian Basin are opportunity-rich  in industrial and utility point-source emitters and Oxy is collaborating with  industry to propel carbon capture initiatives—covering the spectrum from  technology to transportation and subsequent sequestration via CCUS. 77 Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation""
""Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET Acquired interests in more than 400 square miles  of pore space access along the U.S. Gulf Coast for  planned sequestration hubs with up to 6 billion  metric tons of CO2 storage capacity Drilled""
""stratigraphic data wells and submitted  nine Class VI CO2 sequestration well permit  applications across our six proposed hub sites,  two of which were selected for award negotiations  under the DOE CarbonSafe funding opportunity Selected in August 2023 to enter award  negotiations with the DOE’s Office of Clean  Energy Demonstrations for a grant to support  development of the South Texas DAC Hub Contributed to the Road Maintenance Fund  of Allen Parish, Louisiana in June 2023 as a  community""
""investment in advance of Magnolia  Hub development 2023 SEQUESTRATION PROJECT  HIGHLIGHTS: Digging in on Sequestration: 2023 Progress  Oxy continued making headway on sequestration hub development last year. Oxy has six sequestration hubs in progress, currently being developed in the  Permian Basin and across the Gulf Coast due to the region’s industrial intensity, extensive infrastructure, supply chain connectivity and petrochemical  concentration. Oxy has secured interests in more than 300,000""
""acres — or more than 400 square miles — of pore space in Texas and Louisiana. This could give  our sequestration hubs a collective capacity to sequester up to 6 billion metric tons of CO2.   STRATOS DAC + Sequestration POLK COUNTY Sequestration BLUEBONNET Sequestration MAGNOLIA Sequestration PELICAN Sequestration SOUTH TEXAS DAC + Sequestration DAC Facility Sequestration 78 Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air""
""Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET As Oxy makes progress toward our ambitious net-zero  goals and strategy to advance the goals of the Paris  Agreement, we believe that it is important our pathway  supports four key stakeholder groups in the transition  to a net-zero economy. These""
""include energy workers,  energy-producing communities, communities susceptible  to climate impacts and low-income consumers.  Energy Workers Oxy’s pathway will require the skills, training and initiative  of our workers to build, deploy and operate DAC and  CCUS projects, and to produce low- or zero-emissions  power, fuels, plastics, building materials and feedstocks.  As reflected in our DIB program along with our active  recruiting and internship programs, Oxy invests in  hiring, developing""
""and retaining a diverse workforce for  the future across our upstream oil and gas, midstream,  essential chemistry and low-carbon businesses. Energy-Producing Communities Oxy works hard to maintain our reputation as a Partner  of Choice® in the communities where we operate. Our  Net-Zero Strategy leverages our substantial oil and gas  technologies, property holdings and infrastructure to  advance safe, secure handling and storage of captured  anthropogenic or atmospheric CO2. Consequently, our""
""focus on a net-zero transition provides for and assumes  continued local investments in energy-producing areas  that sustain community benefits such as prosperity,  public health and safety and enhanced environmental  quality. Communities Susceptible to Climate Impacts To achieve atmospheric removal of CO2 at a climate- relevant scale, Oxy seeks to advance the commercial  deployment of DAC as quickly as possible. Susceptible  nations and communities have called for rapid action.  Oxy’s pathway""
""includes essential near-term actions,  such as DAC, that can begin removing CO2 from the  atmosphere concurrent with accelerating emissions  reduction. Rapid and widespread deployment of DAC  technologies, particularly when paired with emissions  reduction technologies in which Oxy has invested like  NET Power, has the potential to slow the increase of,  and ultimately help to reduce, CO2 concentrations in the  atmosphere to help mitigate climate change. Consumers We believe a successful net-""
""zero transition must meet  daily human needs, particularly those of disadvantaged  communities, for reliable energy and essential products.  By producing low-carbon or net-zero power, fuels,  plastics and other products, the technologies we are  deploying have the potential to help multiple industry  sectors reduce their carbon footprints while they  continue to manufacture and deliver affordable essential  goods and services to people across the globe. A Just Transition to a Net-Zero Economy 79""
""Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET The Environmental Partnership (TEP) Methane Guiding Principles (MGP) Oil & Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI) –  12-member, CEO-led non-profit""
""organization Oil and Gas Methane Partnership (OGMP) 2.0 – 1st U.S.-based operator in the Permian to join World Bank’s Zero Routine Flaring (ZRF)  by 2030 Initiative – 1st U.S. oil and gas  company to endorse Aiming for Zero Methane Emissions  Initiative – founding member of OGCI’s initiative Oil & Gas Decarbonization Charter (OGDC) - original signatory at COP28 World Bank’s Global Flaring and Methane Reduction  Partnership - committed $25MM in funding at COP28 Since 2017, Oxy has joined and""
""actively participates in emissions reduction programs through multiple associations, including the climate-focused organizations listed below. 2017 2021 2018 2021 2023 2020 2022 2023 Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Methane and Flaring 80 Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation  Oxy""
""Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET Oxy has embedded emissions reduction and net-zero planning into core  business decision-making throughout the organization. Our teams are  innovating to find cost-effective ways to reduce emissions while delivering  on our other business goals, enabling even more progress. Projects compete  internally based on carbon intensity and long-term trajectories, including  accounting for carbon""
""sinks. This helps us identify future opportunities to  sequester anthropogenic CO2. It also incentivizes teams to explore every  option for reducing carbon intensity in current and future operations.  Oxy  has established an Emissions Community of Practice to institutionalize  leading practices and provide a framework for internal capacity-building  and collaboration around Oxy’s net-zero goals. Highlighting the integral  nature of sustainability goals in our businesses, more than 100 dedicated,""
""cross-functional representatives have been organized into multiple teams  to address specific aspects of emissions management in field development  planning. Industry Decarbonization  In 2023, Oxy reduced methane emissions by 65.2% since 2019 and 15.9%  since 2022. We implemented several key emissions reduction projects in  2023, including: • Conversion of sixteen facilities to tankless design and consolidation of five  facilities in our U.S. onshore oil and gas operations • Elimination or""
""conversion of all high-bleed pneumatic devices found in U.S.  onshore oil and gas operations, and conversion of more than 1,800 other  gas-driven pneumatic devices to instrument air or non-emitting • Obtained five gas storage permits to minimize flaring during plant and pipeline  outages, and completed six gas takeaway projects in U.S. onshore oil and  gas operations, which increase optionality for gas sales through existing  infrastructure  • Completion of six projects at four OxyChem plants""
""to enhance heat recovery,  reduce energy use and increase hydrogen usage  • Deployment of ground-based methane sensors at key facilities to expedite  leak detection and repair (LDAR)  • Deployment in several assets of a methane emissions platform with Climate  Investment and technology provider SensorUp—the SensorUp Gas Emissions  Management Solution (GEMS) platform—to consolidate data from multiple  methane detection sources like satellites, flyovers, unmanned aerial vehicles  and ground-""
""based sensors. In addition, carbon intensities of anticipated future production are being  reduced as field development plans include expanded electrification, utilization  of surplus heat to reduce demand for electricity, reduction of overall demand  for emitting equipment through optimizations, and incorporation of innovative  equipment designs.  A focus on combustion equipment has helped Oxy make strides in reducing CO2  emissions. In the Midland Basin, the Jaguar compressor station""
""electrification  project was selected for a grant by the Texas Commission on Environmental  Quality’s (TCEQ) New Technology Implementation Grant Program. In 2023, we  installed thirty electric compressors in the Permian Basin, and plan to increase  our electric compression in 2024.  We are committed to improving operational performance by implementing practices and technologies designed to reduce emissions and maximize the use of  natural gas production. Within our own operations, Oxy’s rigorous""
""field development planning incorporates sustainable development including consideration of  Scope 1 and 2 emissions reductions, water stewardship, habitat and resource conservation and UN SDGs. Emissions Reduction Programs Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation 81  Oxy Sustainability""
""Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET Where electrical compression is not yet feasible due to electrical  infrastructure lead time, lower emitting combustion equipment is being  selected and fuel gas meters are informing emissions estimates and  performance data. In New Mexico, surplus heat from an electrical compressor  station is being utilized to reduce the demand for electric heaters at the  centralized processing facility, thus reducing""
""overall electrical demand and  Scope 2 emissions.  Flaring Oxy achieved a ~67% reduction in routine flaring, as defined by the World  Bank’s Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 Initiative, in 2023 from our 2020  baseline. Our U.S. oil and gas operations sustained zero routine flaring  in 2023. We also commissioned additional compression in our Oman  operations. We are implementing a diverse range of projects to capture  natural gas that has traditionally been flared, and use it to boost energy""
""production, maintain field pressure or sell for additional income.  Conditions can change at a given facility that affect flaring categories,  such as outages of third-party plants or pipelines that provide takeaway  capacity, timing of infrastructure permitting and construction, or changes  to throughput, gas composition, gas processing equipment or piping.  Accordingly, Oxy’s facility engineers and air quality engineers periodically  review facility operations and, as warranted, design and""
""implement projects  to reduce total flaring to maximize beneficial use of methane. As we continue to progress toward elimination of routine flaring company- wide, we are also pursuing reduction of non-routine flaring such as during  planned maintenance, facility upgrades and third-party plant and pipeline  outages. Closed-loop gas capture is being successfully deployed for select  fields and assets in the Permian Basin to eliminate or reduce the need  for flaring, where feasible and safe, during""
""plant and pipeline outages or  other temporary operational conditions. Gas is temporarily injected into  existing wells instead of flaring gas when shutting down production is not  feasible due to surface or subsurface conditions. We expect to scale up this  innovative gas management technique across some of our other U.S. onshore  operations. This emissions mitigation technique also complements the  installation of tankless facilities, which reduce or eliminate oil storage on well  pads and""
""route production fluids by pipeline to central processing facilities.    Managing Methane    Oxy continues to build on our understanding of emissions and methane  management. We are rapidly scaling up measurement and detection  deployment, using the SensorUp GEMS platform more widely to reconcile  calculated emissions from multiple incoming data sources, devices and  technologies. These technologies deliver information daily and generate  monthly reconciled reports.  Oxy’s Find it/Fix it/Measure""
""it/Predict it practices are helping to eliminate  identified sources of methane emissions quickly and efficiently. Our ability  to utilize our analytics platform for methane management more broadly  is expected to help accelerate our time to repair by quickly deploying and  optimizing our field staff, streamlining regulatory reporting and responding  to third-party detections. This data is also informing leading practices  throughout the company via our Emissions Community of Practice.  We are""
""also bridging the gap between the field and the office. Field staff  will be able to view methane emissions histories for high-maintenance  equipment or locations, while office staff analyze, troubleshoot and inform  future designs. These enhanced capabilities are exciting and create value on  all sides of the equation: operational efficiency, trusted and proven reporting,  workforce alignment and prioritizing resources.  In the Gulf of Mexico, legacy compressor valves were upgraded to increase""
""compressor reliability and efficiency while reducing Scope 1 emissions.  Low-emission pressure packing with a profiled seat and plate is used to  significantly boost efficiency, reliability and service life while minimizing  emissions. The use of this packing reduces the need for unplanned  maintenance in areas where personnel access is limited. Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and""
""Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation 82  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET Transitioning Drilling and Completion Fuels  In drilling and completion operations, Oxy has successfully transitioned from  traditional diesel engines to natural gas engines. This has helped to reduce  GHG and criteria compound emissions from these operations by over 50%.  In some""
""cases, battery technology has also been deployed, reducing overall  Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions associated with those operations. Where  feasible, drilling rigs have transitioned to using high-line power, eliminating  combustion emissions from local diesel generation.  Designed with Sustainability in Mind  We strive to design our development projects to reduce waste and promote  efficient utilization of equipment, infrastructure and resources. Our facilities  and construction teams plan for""
""maximum recycling and reuse of equipment— redeploying or repurposing existing equipment and infrastructure ranging from  pumps, separators, vapor recovery units and lease automatic custody transfer  units, to flowlines, instrument air compression, concrete jersey barriers, motor  valves and beyond to reduce costs, surface disturbance and lifecycle emissions. Other Air Emissions  Oxy’s oil and natural gas, midstream and chemical operations generate  air emissions, including sulfur oxides,""
""nitrogen oxides, volatile organic  compounds (VOCs), carbon monoxide and particulate matter (such as  PM10 and PM2.5), among other airborne substances. We monitor operating  conditions and work hard to control air emissions from our facilities and  oil and gas field activities in compliance with federal, state and local  regulations. These air emissions are typically generated from boilers, heaters,  engines, flares, compressors and other process sources such as storage  tanks, venting, gas""
""boosting activities and pneumatic devices. Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation Platteville, CO Field Employee:  Sound Monitoring 83  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET HIGHLIGHT RENEWABLE ENERGY: GOLDSMITH Oxy""
""operates a solar photovoltaic (PV) facility near Odessa, Texas. The  Goldsmith solar facility expands on Oxy’s efforts to economically lower GHG  intensity by using emissions-free power sources in our operations. The  120-acre field was the first large-scale solar facility of its kind that directly  powers oil and gas operations in Texas and features 174,000 PV panels with a  total capacity of 16 megawatts, which is enough to power the Goldsmith EOR field. In 2023, the facility generated over""
""42,000 MWh of electricity, reducing the  Goldsmith EOR field’s emissions by nearly 15,000 MT of CO2 compared to  electricity purchased from the grid. Oxy is collaborating with producers of renewable and nuclear energy to  generate significant electricity for our operations well beyond our own solar-powered Goldsmith EOR field.  Energy Utilization and Efficiency The ongoing improvement of Oxy’s energy efficiency is central to our HSE&S Principles,  Net-Zero Strategy and business performance. Oxy""
""has for many years used cogeneration,  energy efficiency improvements and focused integration of renewable energy to advance  our strategy of realizing both lower costs and lower emissions. Power consumption is the  largest driver of Oxy’s operating costs. Oxy applies several techniques to improve energy  efficiency and reduce emissions while sustaining our production. Our employees take this  challenge seriously, and Oxy has invested in efficiency improvements, process changes and  the use of""
""lower-carbon power and feedstocks as a result of hands-on, employee-driven  innovations. Guided by the principles of the American Chemistry Council’s (ACC) Responsible Care®  Energy Efficiency program, OxyChem’s plants have successfully implemented innovative  energy efficiency enhancements, including cogeneration using combined heat and power  (CHP). In addition, OxyChem partnered with the DOE’s Better Plants® program to apply  leading practices in energy management to help OxyChem advance its""
""2025 sustainability  goals through in-plant engineering, training and development programs at its Pasadena  and Battleground, TX facilities. Another example of its energy innovation is the production  and use of hydrogen as a non-carbon-based fuel source in OxyChem’s operations to reduce  natural gas consumption and lower CO2 emissions. Oxy also provides a variety of demand  response products across our facilities in Kansas, Louisiana, Tennessee and Texas. These  products help support the""
""reliability of the electric grid. By offering to reduce power  consumption at specific facilities when called upon by the grid operator, Oxy provides the  electrical grid with a tool that helps maintain grid reliability for end-use customers. We continue  to evaluate opportunities to reduce our electricity costs by instituting practices to consume less  electricity in high-demand hours, by minimizing electric transmission costs and by increasing  our participation in demand response""
""opportunities. Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation 84  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET HIGHLIGHT COGENERATION, HYDROGEN USE AND INNOVATION  AT OXYCHEM OxyChem prides itself on innovative energy use, heat""
""recovery and efficient  operations. For over two decades, several OxyChem plants have used natural  gas and steam cogeneration, also known as CHP, to significantly reduce their  electrical power usage from the grid, and even to supply substantial surplus  electricity to the grid to serve local and regional communities. OxyChem’s Taft, Battleground and Ingleside facilities use hydrogen, a  byproduct from the chlor-alkali process, to generate power and reduce  their demand for natural gas.""
""Hydrogen substitution has typically reduced  OxyChem’s CO2 emissions by approximately 500,000 MT annually. Hydrogen  substitution, as a non-carbon fuel source, is an important part of OxyChem’s  decarbonization strategy. Internal hydrogen recovery and usage contributes  to lowering OxyChem’s annual CO2 emissions by about 6%.  OxyChem implemented its first anti-idle locomotive railcar mover at its  Pasadena, TX facility. This advancement in technology is expected to  reduce annual diesel fuel""
""consumption by 38,000 gallons and each railcar  potentially reduces GHG emissions by 388 metric tons per year. Partnerships to Reduce Energy Consumption Since 2019, OxyChem has been a partner in the DOE Better Plants® program to help  reduce energy consumption across our facilities. OxyChem has held three in-plant training  events with the DOE at our Ingleside, Pasadena and Battleground, TX facilities to identify  opportunities in energy management and GHG emissions reductions. OxyChem continues""
""to expand our energy saving efforts beyond the fence line and into the  communities where we operate. As part of OxyChem’s focus on being an industry leader in  sustainability, OxyChem engaged the DOE Industrial Assessment Centers (IAC) at Louisiana  State University and Texas A&M University to perform free energy audits to help schools  lower their energy costs. Since 2022, OxyChem has donated over $120,000 to three schools in St. James Parish,  LA and the LaPorte, TX Independent School""
""District to implement the energy saving  opportunities identified by the DOE IACs. The estimated energy savings impact from this  program has been over 202,000 kWh annually. OxyChem has played a significant role  in increasing the energy efficiency of these schools and providing a brighter learning  environment. Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste""
""Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation In May 2022 and April 2024, the DOE honored OxyChem as a Better Practice Award winner, which recognizes  companies for innovative and industry-leading accomplishments in energy management. OxyChem received the  recognition for incorporating an engineering, training and development program that led to process changes,  resulting in energy savings that reduced CO2 emissions by 7,000 MT annually. Additionally, OxyChem was""
""recognized for extending its energy management programs beyond the fence line into local communities to help  schools reduce their energy consumption. 85  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET Water Stewardship  The production of oil and natural gas, electricity and chemicals requires water and Oxy recognizes the importance of managing water resources  responsibly. Our water stewardship program is designed to conserve and""
""protect water resources in communities where we operate by: Optimizing the use of   lower-quality water, including  produced water from our oil   and gas production Recycling produced water   and process water from   our operations Limiting the use of freshwater  and potable water in our   operations, where feasible Oxy’s water stewardship program seeks to advance UN SDG 6: Clean Water  and Sanitation, UN SDG 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure, and UN  SDG 12: Responsible Consumption""
""and Production. We are also aligned with  Ipieca Impact Opportunity 5 on biodiversity, land and water stewardship and  Ipieca voluntary Impact Pathway 51 which states: “Adopt water stewardship  strategies that include collaboration around integrated water resources  management, local participation in the collective management of water  particularly in areas of water scarcity, and improvement of water quality and  re-use of water, where feasible to reduce usage of fresh water.” Oxy’s water""
""stewardship focuses on the unique characteristics of the regions  where we operate. Through practices that include the treatment and use of  produced water, water recycling and efforts to reduce the use of freshwater  and potable water supplies, Oxy strives to confirm our water use does not  affect the ability of municipalities, ranchers, farmers and other water users  near our operations to secure access to water resources. We routinely assess our water management practices, including those""
""relating to water supply, treatment, reuse, recycling and discharge, to identify  opportunities for improvement. Oxy’s Water Strategy and Technology Group  is a centralized team of engineers and scientists that pursues industry- leading management practices, engages with stakeholders and water users  on water management and conservation practices, and designs water  treatment and recycling projects across our global operations. In 2022,  Oxy established a Water Stewardship Community of Practice,""
""which further  supports development plans for our operations in a collaborative manner and  involves HSE, water management and engineering professionals within each  business unit. Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation 86  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY""
""GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET Oxy works closely with specialized contractors who conduct significant  produced water recycling. In 2023, about 86 million barrels of recycled  produced water were reused in our hydraulic fracturing operations to reduce  the need for other water supplies. In addition, Oxy treated and shared more  than 10 million barrels of recycled produced water with other operators for  their hydraulic fracturing operations. We are increasing the use of""
""recycling  facilities in our U.S. onshore operations, while enhancing the engineering  design and operability of these facilities.   We continue to enhance water data gathering and reporting processes  throughout our assets. Oxy is transparent about our water management  and reports company-wide water metrics in our ESG Data Summary table. We have also reported water data and outcomes from our analysis using  the WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas to CDP since the inception of the Water  Security""
""Questionnaire. In 2023, according to feedback from CDP, Oxy shows  “knowledge of impacts, and of water issues” and is on par with our oil and gas peers. Oxy considers the longer-term patterns of integrated water resources  management, regenerative capacity of ground water and aquifers, population  growth, demand shifts and the potential for weather-related impacts in  evaluating and mitigating the effects of water risks on key operations,  the health, safety and well-being of employees and""
""contractors, and host  communities. Oxy’s OMS encompasses programs, policies, standards,  procedures, guidelines and operational strategies designed to conserve  natural resources, such as improving efficient use, recycling and reuse of  water and the quality of water being treated and discharged to surface water  bodies.  Oxy applies rigorous HSE risk management and Asset Integrity programs.  Our risk-based Asset Integrity program includes several key elements:  mechanical integrity inspections""
""and maintenance, corrosion management  and quality assurance/quality control. To maintain a high level of equipment  and systems integrity throughout our facilities, the HSE risk management  and Asset Integrity programs also involve operations, facilities engineering,  major projects, construction, supply chain and business planning. For  facilities and projects involving significant water usage or produced water  generation, Oxy’s Water Stewardship Community of Practice and Water  Strategy and""
""Technology Group also actively participate. OxyChem Water Management OxyChem, as an ACC Responsible Care® company, is committed to reporting  on its water management practices and water stewardship.  OxyChem’s commitment to protecting watersheds and the environment is  also reflected in its participation in OCS Blue. OCS Blue is an industry initiative  to implement leading practices to prevent and report spills of plastic resin  products outside of the manufacturer’s fence line. In addition,""
""OxyChem is  working with its transportation partners to implement the OCS Blue program  during transportation of PVC resin products. Since 2020, OxyChem has had no  reportable spills of PVC resin products across its PVC manufacturing sites. OxyChem focuses on reducing consumption of water through conserving,  recycling and reusing process water, where feasible. In 2023, OxyChem  implemented numerous water usage reduction projects throughout its  facilities. Seven of these projects resulted in""
""the reduction of about 1.19  million barrels of water usage.  Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation Oxy supports communities in our concession areas in Oman by  delivering supplies of fresh water. In Oman, our Corporate Social  Responsibility initiative provides drinking water to over""
""13,000  people living in remote villages and settlements across our  operating areas. 87  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET Two notable Texas projects with large water savings include reconfiguration  of steam traps and salt pad fume scrubber brine use. A project at Ingleside  redesigned 21 steam traps to recapture condensate and steam in the  wastewater treatment plant. This project resulted in reducing freshwater use""
""by about 476,000 barrels annually. In the second project, OxyChem reconfigured the salt pad fume scrubber  at the Battleground chlor-alkali plant in LaPorte, TX. The plant operates  a salt pad where used brine is stored and recycled back into the process.  The plant had two fume scrubbers that used freshwater. Freshwater in  the fume scrubbers was replaced with used brine from the salt pad. This  change resulted in several benefits, including increased brine feed strength,  improved power factor""
""and reduction of caustic soda in the brine area.  Notably, this modification led to freshwater savings of approximately 375,000  barrels annually and achieving an annual energy reduction of 30,700 million BTUs.  Reuse of Groundwater at OxyChem’s Wichita Plant   As a part of OxyChem’s commitment to water stewardship, a groundwater  treatment and reuse project was initiated in 2015 with the goal of treating  and utilizing the treated groundwater in OxyChem’s Wichita, KS Plant. In  2023, the""
""plant’s treatment systems managed about 10.6 million barrels of  groundwater and reused about 4.4 million barrels in its operations. Using  treated groundwater enables the Wichita Plant to reduce its demand for  freshwater by almost 40%. Much of the remaining treated groundwater is  used to support riparian habitat in the Prairie Wetland Conservation Area. Upstream Oil and Gas Water Management   Our oil and gas production operations generate significant quantities  of produced water (i.e.,""
""saline water from hydrocarbon reservoirs). This  produced water would not be generated and available for use without oil and  gas production. Since recycled produced water often meets a significant  portion of our water needs, produced water helps us to avoid competing for  freshwater resources with municipal, agricultural or industrial users.  Throughout our operations, Oxy is increasing the recycling and reuse of  water, which decreases our need for both freshwater withdrawals and""
""transportation and disposal of surplus produced water. Oxy has implemented  major water treatment, reuse and recycling projects in many locations,  including the United States and Oman. Oxy is also developing and enhancing  water-related technologies. These include new approaches for the treatment  of produced water and wastewater streams. We continue to evaluate new  opportunities for beneficial reuse of treated produced water, such as for  agricultural, ranching and ecological use or the""
""construction and operation of  DAC facilities. Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation OxyChem Ingleside 88  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse""
""Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation Oxy’s oil and gas operations increasingly replace use of freshwater with non- freshwater sources, including produced water. In 2023, approximately 96%  of the total water withdrawn by Oxy’s U.S. oil and gas operations came from  non-freshwater sources, of which 87% was produced water. Through our  water stewardship""
""efforts, we introduced water technologies in recycling and  desalination to further reduce freshwater needs, including constructing water  recycling facilities in eastern New Mexico starting in 2016 and in west Texas  in 2021.  In 2023, we continued to grow our produced water recycling capabilities,  looking for ways to replace usage of freshwater with lower-quality produced  water. In August 2023, we completed the first produced water recycling pilot  in the Powder River Basin. About 1,000""
""barrels per day of produced water  were treated to hydraulic fracturing specifications at a temporary recycling  facility. The study’s duration was one month and we successfully recycled  30,000 barrels of produced water to support the Woody Pad development.  As a result, treated produced water became the primary water source for this  development project, reducing our need for freshwater to a supplementary  source only. The study provided an opportunity to inform long-term facility  and""
""technology evaluation for future produced water recycling opportunities.  Based on the expanded data collected during the pilot study and additional  insights on recycling processes, we plan to scale up and design a long-term  water recycling program in the Powder River Basin. Also in 2023, we completed a produced water recycling pilot to support the  Rainbow Pad development in the DJ Basin. The project allowed multiple  treatment technologies to be evaluated while successfully treating and""
""recycling over 600,000 barrels of produced water. To further reduce  freshwater consumption in the DJ Basin we implemented recycled water  usage in well servicing plug and abandonment (P&A) operations. We started  sourcing recycled water from Oxy’s Aggregate Recycle Facility for the P&A  process, which was piloted in 2023 and is continuing to be implemented with  well servicing rigs in the DJ Basin. Furthermore, we have introduced produced water sharing practices and  actively collaborate with""
""other operators and water service companies.  In our Delaware Basin operations in Texas and New Mexico, we offer our  surplus produced water to other operators. In field locations where our own  produced water is not available at the time of an operational need, we strive  to obtain raw, treated or recycled produced water from third-party sources.  This water-sharing approach helps us and other operators to decrease  withdrawals of freshwater and non-freshwater. In addition to permanent""
""recycling operations at South Curtis Ranch, we conducted produced water  recycling at temporary facilities at two assets in the Midland Basin. We also  utilized a third-party recycling facility at another asset for sourcing water  and connecting to water midstream gatherers to share and transport our  produced water to other operators for their reuse.  We set a recycling volume record at the Oxy Aggregate Recycle  Facility by processing approximately 1,000,000 barrels of E&P  material and""
""producing 775,000 barrels of recycled water during  2023. Recycled water from this facility is utilized to offset  freshwater needs in completions and well servicing operations.  Our operations in the Midland Basin set new records for  recycling and utilization of produced water in 2023. About 23  million barrels of recycled produced water were used for field  development. Since its inception in early 2021 through the end of  2023, South Curtis Ranch has recycled over 46 million barrels of""
""produced water. 89  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET In 2023, our Delaware Basin operations surpassed previous years in recycling  produced water. In total, approximately 63 million barrels of recycled  produced water were utilized for field development, with approximately 38  million barrels utilized in New Mexico and 25 million barrels utilized in Texas.  In February 2023, Oxy’s produced water recycling program in New""
""Mexico  surpassed over 100 million barrels of recycled water sent to hydraulic  fracturing operations since the program’s inception in 2016. In 2023, our  Oman South operations treated and recycled approximately 90% of their  produced water to generate steam for enhanced oil recovery, while our  Oman North operations treated and recycled about 85% of their produced  water for water flooding in enhanced oil recovery. The volumes and sources  of water required by Oxy vary considerably by local""
""basin and from well to  well. Throughout our operations, Oxy is working to increase the recycling and  reuse of water, which will decrease our need for both freshwater withdrawals  and transportation and disposal of surplus produced water. Collaboration with Industry and Academia Oxy actively participates with local water resource consortia in New Mexico  and Texas to collaborate on water recycling and desalination technologies,  provide constructive input in the regulatory development process,""
""and  proactively engage with regulators and local community members to expand  recycling opportunities and beneficial uses for surplus produced water. In  2023, Oxy’s Water Strategy and Technical Group worked closely with New  Mexico and Texas Produced Water Consortia on multiple topics including  leading and participating in Technical Committees. Our water management expert from our DJ operations was named as a  Representative of Experience and Expertise to the Colorado Produced Water""
""Consortium in 2023. This individual is currently advising the consortium on  both technical and policy topics and is providing industry insight to support  the ongoing Colorado produced water recycling rulemaking. As a member of Ipieca and IOGP, Oxy specialists contribute by knowledge  sharing on water-related topics within these industry groups. In October  2023, two representatives from Oxy participated in a water peer-to-peer  workshop organized by Ipieca. The workshop was designed to foster""
""collaboration and knowledge sharing among water and sustainability  professionals. The workshop included discussion topics on planning and  accounting for the condition of water resources around operational sites,  improving water management and practicing water stewardship. Oxy’s Efforts on Produced Water Desalination  Oxy’s Water Strategy and Technology Group is assessing and evaluating  different produced water desalination technologies, including a patent- pending Oxy design aimed at""
""reducing disposal volumes and extracting  desalinated produced water for beneficial water usage. The potential  beneficial use of desalinated produced water includes irrigation to grow  dormant seeds, native plants and non-edible crops.   Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation 90  Oxy""
""Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET Application of State-of-the-Art Technology to Minimize Freshwater Usage  Oxy’s gas processing plants in the Permian Basin require water for cooling  process equipment. To minimize freshwater usage, our engineers searched  for technology that would be sustainable, efficient and compatible with our  existing processes and equipment. Our team evaluated several potential  technologies and""
""selected an innovative process that cleans cooling water  through electrolysis.   In May 2023, we piloted our first electrochemical cell unit at the Anton Irish  Plant. During the pilot project, freshwater use was reduced by approximately  620 barrels per day (20% reduction) with a potential for annual reduction  of more than 200,000 barrels. Based on the success of the pilot project,  the technology was deployed at other EOR plants. In January 2024, we  installed six large-scale electrochemical""
""cells at the Seminole Plant. In  addition to reducing the use of freshwater, this system is designed to reduce  maintenance and extend the lifecycle of the equipment. This technology has  other potential benefits, such as 10–12% energy savings due to increased  thermo-transfer and system efficiency.  Water-On-Demand Our Water-On-Demand system delivers water for hydraulic fracturing to  well sites in the DJ and Powder River Basins through a pipeline network— reducing truck traffic impacts, noise""
""and GHG emissions. More than 180  miles of buried water pipelines in the DJ Basin serve an area of more than  384,000 acres. Produced water, along with varying volumes of drilling muds  and fracturing fluids, can be collected and reused in a closed-loop system.  Oxy and our service companies employ a range of mitigation techniques  to manage the potential environmental impacts of drilling materials and  flowback fluids. We work collaboratively with our service companies to  improve drilling and""
""production techniques, to enhance the efficiency of  water usage, and to minimize the amounts and types of additives required for  hydraulic fracturing.  Several techniques include: • Re-using drilling fluids to the maximum extent feasible • Drilling via closed-loop systems in areas with high freshwater tables  • Storing drilling muds, other oily residuals, and flowback water in closed  containment systems or tanks for on-site storage, recycling in drilling or  completions, and eventual""
""disposal of residuals within our U.S. drilling  operations.   Through improved technologies and industry and stakeholder collaboration,  Oxy applies water-delivery systems such as Water-On-Demand, water- recycling programs and closed-loop processes to conserve freshwater  resources and minimize truck traffic. We work with municipalities and other  suppliers to secure recycled water, such as treated wastewater, for use in  our operations. When recycled water is not used, non-freshwater sources""
""are  obtained as our next priority to further minimize our need for freshwater. Oxy also uses a comprehensive underground pipeline system to transport  production fluid to processing facilities, resulting in smaller tank  facilities. This reduces the facility size and creates compact, lower-profile  development areas. Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship""
""Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation Electrochemical cell unit 91  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET Oxy’s Water-On-Demand benefits include: Water Use for Hydraulic Fracturing  Oxy’s water stewardship program includes recycling of flowback water and  its reuse in hydraulic fracturing. In 2023, our Permian Basin operations were  able to satisfy 57% of our water needs for hydraulic""
""fracturing in the Midland  Basin with recycled produced water and 85% of such water needs in our New  Mexico operations, resulting in reduced water withdrawals from freshwater  and non-freshwater sources. In addition, Oxy partners with other operators  to share recycled flowback water for hydraulic fracturing operations, further  minimizing freshwater and non-freshwater usage.  Oxy was an early participant and continues to participate in FracFocus®, a  website created by the Ground Water""
""Protection Council and the Interstate Oil  and Gas Compact Commission to provide well-specific voluntary disclosure  of hydraulic fracturing operations, including the chemical compounds used  in fracturing fluids. In addition to serving as a national registry, the website  provides accurate information about hydraulic fracturing and groundwater  protection. Oxy is committed to conducting hydraulic fracturing in a manner that does not  pose a significant impact to the environment or the""
""communities in which we  operate. Oxy and our contractors evaluate and apply a variety of technologies  to treat produced water and flowback fluids, including physical treatments,  membranes for reverse osmosis and chemical treatments, among others, to  enable reuse and recycling of these fluids in our operations. Oxy assesses surface and subsurface conditions in the vicinity of our  hydraulic fracturing operations, including proximity to waterways  and other environmental attributes. Our deep""
""knowledge of rock and  fluid properties in formations across our acreage helps us to design  completions based on geologic parameters that drive productivity in oil  and gas formations while isolating those formations from freshwater  zones. Water Quality and Wastewater  Discharge to surface water bodies requires a permit or authorization  from regulatory agencies that sets water quality parameters consistent  with the receiving water body and may specify treatment requirements.  Additionally,""
""discharges or stormwater runoff from Oxy’s operations are  evaluated for water quality under applicable regulations and company  policies. In certain locations in the United States, discharges of treated water  from Oxy’s facilities support riverbank ecosystems by providing a more  consistent water flow than would otherwise exist. Oxy monitors and  mitigates water discharges based on regulatory standards, permit  conditions, leading industry frameworks and wastewater and effluent  treatment""
""technologies.  ~ 460 million 70+million Pipelines Storage barrels, or over ~19 billion gallons,  of water moved via pipelines since  2012  traffic miles (over 100,000  MT of CO2 emissions)  avoided since 2012 Temporary pipelines used for  short distances from trunk lines  to well pads to provide safe and  consistent delivery of water Less reliance on onsite  water storage tanks Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air""
""Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation 92  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET DOS OCHOS: BRINGING PRODUCED WATER FULL CIRCLE In 2023, Oxy commissioned the design, construction and operation of a cutting-edge quad cell produced water recycling pond system in Loving  County, Texas. This produced water management system, known as""
""Dos Ochos, comprises circular, dual-lined, interconnected quad cell earthen ponds  with a water storage capacity of 2.2 million barrels, ground water protection and leak detection. The pond design allows for water storage, continuous  circulation of produced water and optimal produced water transfer from cell to cell to promote worksite safety, enhance water quality and minimize  chemical treatment expenses associated with stagnant pond water commonly found in conventional rectangular-shaped""
""recycling ponds. The entire site is fenced around the perimeter for wildlife management and site access security. Construction and initial operations on the 47-acre site  commenced in early 2023. During initial operations about 6 million barrels of produced water were treated at Dos Ochos and subsequently reused for  the area’s well completion operations. Oxy is in the process of patenting the innovative design of the Dos Ochos facility.   In August 2023, Oxy also put into service the El Gordo""
""satellite water handling facility, operated by specialized water treatment contractors, with  a capacity of 1.1 million barrels. El Gordo is located 2.5 miles from Dos Ochos and allows for movement of water in both directions, making the two  facilities a system of connected polishing ponds for custom treatment and recycling of produced water.  Thanks to the operation of Dos Ochos and El Gordo, Oxy avoided the purchase of more than 6.5 million barrels of non-freshwater and subsequent  injection""
""of surplus produced water into permitted saline disposal wells. HIGHLIGHT Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation 93  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES Waste Management  Responsible waste management practices are""
""integrated into the operation of every Oxy business segment, asset and facility through our HSE&S Principle to  “advance the circular economy through waste minimization, reuse and recycling and extending the productive lives of our property, plants and infrastructure.  Our HSE&S Principles also align with the UN SDGs pertaining to waste management. These include UN SDG 6: Clean Water and Sanitation, UN SDG 9: Industry,  Innovation and Infrastructure, and UN SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and""
""Production. The projects our teams are implementing that support these goals  demonstrate our dedication to environmental stewardship, sustainable innovation and meeting stakeholder expectations worldwide. Waste Management Community of Practice  Building upon Oxy’s Water Stewardship Community of Practice, we established a Waste Management Community of Practice (CoP) in 2023. The Waste  Management CoP, consisting of subject matter experts from our domestic business units, meets monthly and is""
""Oxy’s primary initiative focused on waste  management. Currently the CoP is performing a comprehensive mapping of waste management processes and systems across our organization. The  next phases are expected to involve in-depth analysis to enhance data collection methodologies, workflows and tools, and prioritizing waste management  resources. Waste Management in Everyday Operations Our operations implement waste minimization and pollution prevention plans, programs and practices that include""
""tracking the generation, treatment,  recycling and disposal of residual materials and wastes. These efforts are designed to maximize the beneficial use, reuse and recycling of natural resources  and byproducts and to reduce the amount of waste that we generate and dispose. Waste management plans are designed to comply with applicable  regulatory requirements and our HSE&S Policy and to advance our HSE&S Principles. Oxy’s waste management is informed by leading industry practices through peer""
""organizations, as well as active participation in trade associations such  as the API, Ipieca, the Offshore Operators Committee, the IOGP, numerous state oil and gas associations and the Vinyl Sustainability Council (VSC), among  others. We perform regular audits and assessments of our waste management practices in an effort to continue to improve.  PLANET Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy""
""Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation 94  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES ISO standards also play a role in providing guidance and frameworks that we incorporate into our  OMS to promote responsible waste management practices. For example, Oxy’s Integrated Solid  Waste Management facility in Oman, with a comprehensive waste prevention, recycling,""
""composting  and disposal program, adheres to and is certified under the ISO 14001 Environmental Management  System, which promotes waste management strategies that prioritize environmental protection.  Oxy’s South Oman operation is also certified under the ISO 50001 Energy Management System  that fosters an energy-efficient culture and facilitates our policy objectives for improving energy  performance and promoting efficient oil and gas management. ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 jointly  provide a""
""holistic approach to waste management and the conservation of natural resources which  helps us advance long-term sustainability and improve environmental performance.   Our workforce is engaged in continuous improvement and innovation. Oxy sponsors sustainability  challenges across our operations. Teams propose innovative solutions to reduce water, energy and  raw material use, emissions and waste generation. Chosen finalists receive funding to implement their projects. In 2023, new waste""
""management procedures were implemented across ORCM. These new measures  helped centralize several waste-related processes, optimizing aspects of waste identification,  handling and storage times. Policies, standards, procedures and guidelines were created and  deployed for these new processes along with a training matrix, which involves both online and in- person training sessions to enhance implementation.    Our ORCM operations also enhanced their ability to track and manage waste with a new""
""platform  in 2023. The dashboard-driven program is a best-in-class solution for digitally enabled waste  management, tracking the generation, handling and lifecycle of a variety of waste streams.  Oxy’s operations and HSE personnel use the system to obtain real-time data to streamline waste  management. In addition, in our Gulf of Mexico operations, developers have begun work on a  software platform to help enhance data tracking capabilities at offshore operations.   PLANET Environmental""
""Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation 95  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET Aggregate Recycle Facility Waste streams are created during various phases of drilling and production,  including drilling muds and cuttings and""
""production-related residuals  such as tank solids. Strategically located in the DJ Basin, Oxy’s Aggregate  Recycle Facility (ARF) recycles these residual materials, including liquids and  slurries from Oxy’s upstream oil and gas operations in the area. Though its  focus is primarily on solids recycling, water from the facility is used to offset  freshwater needs during well completion operations.  The ARF set another record in 2023, processing 1 million barrels of residual  materials and""
""delivering 775,000 barrels of recycled water. In 2023, we began  sourcing water from the ARF for portions of the P&A process. Facilities such  as the ARF reduce the amount of solid waste, recover valuable materials  within cuttings and proppants, and lessen the overall environmental footprint  of oil and gas operations.  Tasharuk Program   In the Sultanate of Oman, the Tasharuk Program creates in-country value  (ICV) and supports Omani small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). First""
""contribution. The current phase (Phase 6) focuses on  responsibly managing consumer waste within Oxy’s Oman operations. The  project is targeting waste that includes wood, plastic, containers, paper,  organic waste, water bottles, shopping bags and more, categories that have  traditionally been sent to landfills or incinerators.  The Tasharuk Recycling Waste initiative is expected to be the first project  within Oxy Oman operations to holistically reduce the quantity of multiple  types of waste.""
""The Management of Recycling Waste initiative was awarded  to a local Omani-owned SME with a multi-year contract. Waste recycling also  has a significant role to play in reducing GHG emissions. Oxy aims to develop innovative solutions to advance a low-carbon future, in  alignment with our Net-Zero Strategy and the the Sultanate’s Oman Vision  2040 plan to achieve further economic diversification in the country. The  Tasharuk program is designed to allow local SMEs to fill the gap needed to""
""develop the waste recycling sector in Oman, grow their business, increase  competitiveness and job creation, and support sustainable development in  Oman. We hope the project will inspire others and will be replicated across Oman. Oxy has made several project investments to improve the handling and  management of waste. These efforts support our HSE&S Principles and help  provide jobs and opportunities to local residents in our areas of operation.  Among the most notable are two innovative""
""projects set more than 8,000  miles apart:  Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation Aggregate Recycle Facility 96  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET The U.S. vinyl industry has set an ambitious goal to recycle 160""
""million pounds of post-consumer PVC by 2025.   In accordance with our HSE&S Principles, OxyChem supports circularity and stewardship of this high-demand product. OxyChem’s Avon Lake, Ohio  Technical Center is leading cutting-edge research in the recyclability of rigid PVC products. Preliminary results from studying the recyclability of  recovered PVC pipe that was buried in ground in 1998 show it can be mechanically recycled without additives at least 10 times without compromising  its""
""mechanical properties. Avon Lake continued its PVC recycling research in 2023, with the aim of helping the U.S. vinyl industry meet its ambitious  recycling goal.   In addition to its own efforts, OxyChem made a 2023 contribution to the Vinyl Institute’s VIABILITY™ post-consumer recycling grant program. Working  in conjunction with other leading domestic PVC producers, the grant funded five different post-consumer PVC recycling groups across the United  States to assist with the costs of""
""research and development, equipment and other support to accelerate PVC recycling. HIGHLIGHT Supporting Leading-Edge PVC Recycling Research  Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation 97  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES""
""PLANET Spill Prevention  Oxy’s investments in HSE risk management, maintenance and our Asset  Integrity program emphasize our efforts to safeguard people and the  environment. This means investment in inspection and maintenance  activities, projects to upgrade or replace facilities and pipelines in  environmentally sensitive areas—especially watersheds and freshwater  bodies—and automated control systems to detect, report and mitigate leaks  and spills. We have addressed spill prevention in four""
""primary ways: Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation Adopting tankless designs at new facilities and upgrades of existing  facilities to transport more fluid directly by pipelines and reduce the  potential for fluid releases or emissions at tanks (which has a benefit of  reducing air""
""emissions as well as the potential for spills)  Leveraging automation to expand the monitoring of facilities from central  locations, as well as deployment over time of multi-sensory monitoring  devices that can detect fluid releases to the air or the ground at remote sites Re-evaluating our Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure (SPCC)  Plans and consolidating leading practices Rapidly deploying our spill response teams of employees and contractors to  contain and capture liquids and""
""commence surface cleanup. We believe these activities can reduce the number of reportable spills and the  volume of material spilled, as well as mitigate their effects.  Reportable spills include releases of listed substances to land or water above  a level stipulated by regulatory agencies. We track those events, including our  ability to respond promptly to spills and contain and recover spilled fluids in  liquid form. Oxy also takes proactive measures to identify, report and resolve""
""compliance issues in cooperation with government agencies. Collaboration is at the heart of Oxy’s approach toward spill prevention. It takes  a variety of skills, data sets, teams, tools and diverse perspectives to prevent  and mitigate spills. As part of continuing improvement efforts, in 2022 we  established a multidisciplinary Spill Reduction Team (SRT) for ORCM focused  on reducing both the number of reportable events and the volume of material  spilled in the Permian Basin. The group is""
""overlay other data sources in the  search for actionable correlations. RCA findings are used to inform  preventive measures, including prioritization of maintenance, repair  or replacement of assets or infrastructure, to reduce the potential  for significant spills.  98  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET Research, Development and Deployment of New Technology Technology plays a specific role in spill prevention, enabling""
""efforts that  range from early detection and monitoring to asset integrity, process control  and analytics. In 2023, Oxy performed research into a variety of new spill  prevention technologies, including AI systems used for field and facility  monitoring and intelligent cameras that can detect leaks and spills. Within  Oxy’s ORCM business unit, dedicated university interns performed innovative  pilot projects involving a variety of promising spill prevention technologies. Oxy rolled out a new""
""platform in 2023 for advanced spill dynamics and  simulation. To supplement distance calculations from water bodies, this  new system accounts for variables including site-specific topography, heat  transfer, evaporation and oil properties. This is important for several reasons,  including enabling our SPCC facilities to anticipate locations of potential  spills more accurately. This analysis allows our operational teams to conduct  focused inspections that augment our maintenance and prevention""
""efforts  to help minimize potential impacts to the environment. Using state-of- the-art technology helps to provide our operations, engineering and HSE  professionals with the best possible data to help prevent discharges into waterways.   Teamwork. Technology. Operational excellence. Oxy’s new facility designs, our enhanced spill prevention program  and our cross-industry collaboration reflect our respect for people  and sensitive ecosystems.   Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon""
""Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation 99  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET Biodiversity, Land Use and Remediation  Guided by our HSE&S Principle to conserve natural resources, including  biodiversity, wildlife, habitat, water and energy—and manage resources""
""responsibly—we significantly expanded these activities in 2023. Our efforts  to actively promote habitat conservation, protect biodiversity, use land  prudently and decommission sites responsibly once our work is done can take many forms.  Oxy’s teams of multidisciplinary specialists apply their in-depth  understanding of applicable ecological protection requirements and take a  proactive role in protecting the habitats and well-being of numerous species.  Our approach to helping preserve and""
""manage natural ecosystems in our  operating areas is guided by a comprehensive framework integrating leading- edge assessments and practices with input from scientists, regulators and  community members. This biodiversity baseline—performed in conjunction with experts and  regulatory bodies—allows Oxy teams to plan operations in a way that  optimizes for minimal species impact. The company strives to avoid affecting  species and their habitats where possible and, where not feasible, to minimize""
""such effects through focused operational strategies and mitigation measures.  While there are often standardized requirements for protecting the natural  resources, plants and animals surrounding our operations, there are few one- size-fits-all solutions for how to accomplish this. As a result, surface access  and other plans are tailored to site-specific attributes, ecology and location.  Whether operating on the private land of a community member or federal  or state lands, we strive to go""
""beyond compliance with comprehensive  conservation strategies that include habitat enhancement, species  monitoring and other data-driven proactive protection measures. Oxy also  takes a total project lifecycle approach toward stewardship, reflecting the  needs of the surrounding area before, during and after operations.  Our surface planning and environmental teams review potential well  and facility locations to evaluate habitat quality, including factors  such as vegetation structure and""
""composition, the presence of natural  shelter or breeding sites for various animal species, microhabitat  diversity, availability of natural food sources and existing disturbance levels.  Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation 100  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY""
""GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET 101 Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation Protecting Endangered Species  The lesser  prairie-chicken  The Rio  Grande cooter   The gray  redhorse  The blue  sucker   The Pecos  springsnail The dunes  sagebrush  lizard  The Texas""
""agreements promote collaborative on-the-ground conservation and restoration initiatives on federal, state and private lands to  help protect these species and their habitats.  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention""
""Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation Extensive Surface Planning Use of Existing Infrastructure  Rigorous surface planning protocols and processes help us preserve the  land and its denizens. Oxy’s surface planning teams work closely with in- house experts to evaluate potential operating locations and their distinct  ecosystems and conservation needs. Depending on the specific location and  landowner, this could include:  One of Oxy’s most powerful tools to protect biodiversity is to reuse""
""existing  oil and gas infrastructure and previously disturbed surface where feasible,  rather than to build facilities on undisturbed surface. We believe that using  existing production infrastructure to recover additional oil and natural gas  from mature fields provides significant lifecycle environmental benefits. In  many cases, this also avoids the need for additional surface disturbance such  as new roads, pipelines or processing facilities.  Co-locating secondary facility development to""
""leverage existing infrastructure  uses less land, fragments fewer acres of species habitat, helps preserve  migration corridors and reduces what are known as “edge effects,” ecological  changes that can occur in the edges of a disturbed area. This practice can  also create operational efficiencies and attractive economics, lowering capital  expenditures and operating expenses and accelerating time to market. By  planning to minimize these impacts through co-location, Oxy can produce the  energy""
""the world needs while protecting species and preserving land.  Based on this assessment, the team creates a site-specific conservation plan  that considers everything from optimal location, sound barriers and wildlife- focused site design to reclamation and revegetation plans. Additionally,  the plan includes what workers should do if species are encountered during  construction or operation of the location to avoid and protect them. Review of what species have the potential for occurrence in""
""the project  area, including federally listed endangered or threatened species, migratory  birds, eagles or other raptors and pollinators Biological field studies to help determine the presence of sensitive habitats,  migration corridors or endangered or at-risk species Mapping and deployment of remote sensors to assess topography, soil  composition, hydrology, vegetation cover and other site considerations Careful review of existing infrastructure that can be leveraged to help  minimize our""
""operational footprint. In the Delaware Basin, we reduced our surface footprint for  construction of new wells and facilities by an average of 26% from 2022 using co-located wells and facilities and this practice is  being applied in other business units. 102  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy""
""Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation Restoration after Surface Use   For decommissioning of facilities and fields after production ceases, the company develops a custom plan that involves site surveys, risk assessments,  prioritization, mitigation, management and documentation to minimize risks to people and the environment and to enable productive future use of  existing infrastructure and beneficial use of the""
""land surface. When a well’s production is completed and it is no longer needed for future use, the well is  decommissioned. The well bore is safely and permanently sealed with multiple cement barriers using carefully regulated methods in compliance with applicable  federal, state and local requirements. Once the well plug and abandonment (P&A) process is complete, Oxy’s restoration efforts begin, and involve some or all of  the following steps, depending on the location, regulations and""
""surrounding ecosystems: Equipment Removal: Unless slated for use in future operations by Oxy,  other operators or the landowner, surface equipment and facilities are  removed and subsurface facilities like pipelines are safely sealed in place.  Soil Restoration: Soil restoration techniques may be used to  improve soil quality and promote natural processes. This may  involve adding organic matter, adjusting pH levels and enhancing  soil structure. Regrading and Contouring: The site might be""
""regraded or  contoured to match its original topography, including drainage to  prevent water accumulation or erosion. Revegetation: Carefully selected plants and seed mixtures may  be applied to the site to help restore vegetative cover and create  habitat for wildlife. Monitoring and Documentation: The completion of the overall  process, and each step within it, is monitored and documented for  return of the site to the property owner. Site Surveys: Thorough site surveys are conducted for""
""potential sampling  locations to identify areas that may warrant soil removal or specialized  treatment. This step helps guide subsequent actions. Potential restoration actions: Painesville, OH Conservation Area 103  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water""
""Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation Glenn Springs Holdings    Montague, Michigan Shoreline Habitat Restoration Glenn Springs Holdings, an affiliate of OxyChem, manages former operating  locations and other properties in accordance with our HSE&S Principles to  help safeguard people and the environment. Since 2012, Glenn Springs has  earned numerous national habitat awards from the Wildlife Habitat Council  (WHC), National Wild Turkey Federation,""
""Pheasants Forever and Ducks  Unlimited. The scientists, engineers and project managers at Glenn Springs  employ environmentally sound methods and innovative site restoration  solutions in cooperation with stakeholders. Through engagement with  relevant agencies and local communities and development and application of  standardized processes and tools, Glenn Springs has taken a leadership role  at many sites to achieve significant improvements in environmental quality in  industrial, mining and""
""commercial settings.  As of year-end 2023, Glenn Springs participated in or monitored remedial  activities or proceedings at 160 environmental sites on behalf of OxyChem  as well as certain other subsidiaries of Oxy. The environmental remediation  program is described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following ongoing projects highlight Glenn Springs’ approach of  combining remediation and beneficial use of sites in a manner that helps  improve environmental quality and advance community""
""interests. Glenn Springs and the Muskegon Conservation District have partnered  on numerous conservation projects since the early 2000s, including  collaborations that directly led to the 2014 removal of White Lake in Muskegon  County, MI from the Great Lakes list of Areas of Concern. An ongoing example  of this partnership is work that began in 2010 on a portion of OxyChem’s  property to replace the hardened shoreline of concrete and other materials  with valuable riparian and wetland habitats.""
""Invasive species were also  removed from the area and bio-engineering techniques were used to stabilize  and improve habitat on over 3,000 feet of shoreline.  OxyChem entered into a voluntary conservation easement with the Muskegon  Conservation District to protect the restored shoreline in perpetuity to  benefit many species. The restored riparian habitat is used for nesting and  foraging by many native birds, fish and rare turtles. Glenn Springs and the  Conservation District protect and""
""maintain this important habitat with  ongoing care including hand-pulling invasive plants, nurturing desirable  species and educating the public about the restoration work through outreach and signage. Montague, MI Conservation Area 104  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET Belle, West Virginia Habitat Creation  Prairie Wetland Conservation Area OxyChem’s property in Belle, WV achieved Gold certification status in early""
""2024 from the WHC. Key to earning this certification was Glenn Springs’  implementation of a series of biodiversity and habitat creation projects, as  well as engagement with local residents to help monitor these new habitats.  Projects focused on developing additional nesting platforms for various types  of birds, reducing invasive species and enhancing wildlife habitats in the  adjacent riparian areas and across the site’s grasslands. A home on the National Register of Historic Places sits""
""adjacent to the site,  from which visitors can enjoy views of the habitat’s pollinator beds and avian  nesting projects focusing on bluebirds, purple martins, wood ducks and  American kestrels. An adjacent green space provides direct access for local  residents to the Kanawha River and serves as a recreational area for visitors  to enjoy nature and the waterfront.  OxyChem’s Wichita Plant, in conjunction with Glenn Springs, operates a water  treatment facility to support a groundwater""
""remediation project for the plant.  The treated water is either utilized at the Wichita Plant as process water or to  support riparian habitat. In addition to the groundwater treatment and reuse  benefits, a conservation project known as the Prairie Wetland Conservation  Area (PWCA) exists on much of the area where groundwater remediation  activities take place. The PWCA project entailed the restoration and creation  of wetlands and native mixed grass prairie habitats. Today, the PWCA consists""
""of approximately 104 acres of wetland, 326 acres of grassland and 10 acres of  woodland. The current objective of this project is to maintain the wetland and  prairie habitats by enhancing and preserving the native plant communities,  which provide habitat and food sources for local wildlife. The PWCA was  initially certified by the WHC in 2004, and OxyChem and Glenn Springs have  retained this certification for the past 20 years. In December 2023, the PWCA  achieved Gold certification from the""
""WHC, which is the highest tier in its  certification program. Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation Supporting Non-Profit Partnerships  Doing the right thing takes the right team. Oxy works closely with a  number of non-profit conservation organizations, actively participating in""
""membership and providing extensive support. These include the National  Fish and Wildlife Foundation (NFWF), the Gulf of Mexico Alliance and  the WHC. Glenn Springs and OxyChem have received Gold Conservation  Certification® from the WHC at five facilities in Kansas, Ohio, Tennessee  and West Virginia, and Silver certification for a sixth facility in Louisiana. Belle, WV Conservation Area 105  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES""
""PLANET Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation HIGHLIGHT Wyoming’s Converse County is home to one of the nation’s most dense populations of breeding  raptors in the Western United States. These include eagles, hawks, kestrels, harriers, falcons and  more. Some of these raptors, such as""
""the ferruginous hawk and outsized golden eagle, are listed  by the State of Wyoming as Species of Greatest Conservation Need.  Converse County is also undergoing rapid growth in its energy and natural resources sector with  significant oil and gas, wind, solar, coal and uranium development underway. Oxy is working  with other operators, consultants, regulators and community leaders to study raptor nesting. In  ornithology, nesting refers to breeding behavior, and the study plans to assess raptor""
""breeding  before, during and after new project development. In the initial phase of the survey, almost 900  raptor nests were discovered—representing six different species.  Oxy is donating $100,000 to help support the study. In coordination with existing raptor  monitoring efforts, its goal is to assess population-level relationships between energy  development and nesting raptors. This data is expected to help inform development and wildlife  planning in the area using science-based""
""guidelines. The Wyoming Game and Fish Department  also contributed funds to support the project’s planning phase, as well as the first year of field  surveys.  “We’re a key operator in the Powder River Basin,” said Kimberly Mendoza-Cooke, Oxy’s Director  of U.S. Onshore Policy and External Affairs, “So this kind of study is important to us. Raptors play  a big role in helping regulate prey species. They are also sensitive to environmental change, and  a good indicator of overall ecosystem""
""health. The team hopes to come out of this study with a  clearer picture of leading practices surrounding raptor nest protections, and how this data could  inform Oxy’s future operating practices in the region.”  Supporting Comprehensive Study of Wyoming Raptors  106  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PLANET HIGHLIGHT HIGHLIGHT PROMOTING A HEALTHY, RESILIENT COAST THROUGH  THE GULF OF MEXICO ALLIANCE  Oxy served as a 2023 Gulf""
""Star Partner for the Gulf of Mexico  Alliance. The Alliance is dedicated to working on issues common  to the five-state Gulf region. The Gulf Star Program leverages  contributions from agencies and businesses to fund projects that  enhance the Gulf in four areas: coastal community resilience,  environmental education, habitats and wildlife and clean water. Projects that Oxy supported in 2023 included a diamondback  terrapin (Malaclemys terrapin) habitat study by researchers from  Texas A&M""
""pronghorn.  Environmental Costs Oxy discloses our estimated environmental capital expenditures, operating expenses and remediation expenses, as well as significant environmental  proceedings, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, we report in our ESG Data Summary the amount of HSE fines or penalties paid to government  agencies under notices of violation or proceedings such as administrative orders, consent orders or agreements or court actions brought by or on behalf of  government""
""agencies to enforce environmental laws or regulations. Environmental Stewardship  Accelerating Carbon Innovation Greenhouse Gas Emissions,  Methane and Flaring Other Air Emissions Energy Utilization and Efficiency Water Stewardship Waste Management  Spill Prevention Biodiversity, Land Use  and Remediation 107  PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES Oxy contributes to vibrant communities, as we seek to  create value and opportunities everywhere we operate.""
""contributed  BILLION PARTNERSHIPS 211 MILLION  > $25 Social investments  worldwide Community and philanthropic  partnerships   JOBS  >23,000  Employee and contractor  jobs in Oman + Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 108  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PROSPERITY Community Engagement  and Social Investment Managing Our Supply Chain  Industry Engagement and Leadership We seek to strengthen economies where we operate through our""
""where our employees live and work, we seek  to advance our relationships with neighboring communities and promote mutually beneficial outcomes. Our Focus Community Engagement Operating as a Partner of Choice® Social Investment Managing our Supply Chain Prosperity Wish for Wheels bike build event 109  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PROSPERITY Community Engagement  and Social Investment Managing Our Supply Chain  Industry""
""the UN SDGs into action to addressing unique local needs, we seek to bring sustainable and inclusive growth and opportunity to each  of our host communities. In 2023, Oxy paid approximately $3.2 billion in U.S. federal, state and local income, property, sales, payroll and severance taxes, out of  a total of approximately $3.9 billion paid in taxes globally. In 2023, we invested more than $25 million directly toward community and social investments, above  and beyond our robust investments in our""
""Engagement Oxy’s employees and contractors and their families live and work in the areas in which we operate.  Therefore, we take pride in playing an active role in engaging with local residents, governments,  regulators, conservation groups and other community stakeholders. Our approach to community  engagement is built on the foundation of Oxy’s core values and our HSE&S Principles and is an integral  component of our broader sustainability strategy.  It is important to us that neighbors,""
""the community to participate in community events while still fulfilling the  demands of their everyday lives. 110  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PROSPERITY Community Engagement  and Social Investment Managing Our Supply Chain  Industry Engagement and Leadership 1 2 4 3 5 Key to this effort is our Community Consultation Framework, which provides the foundation for organized and thoughtful stakeholder engagement within""
""communities where we operate. Our five-step stakeholder engagement process includes:  Our Community Consultation Framework is guided by leading international practices and is tailored to the unique socio-economic, cultural and environmental  conditions, regulatory requirements and varying government ownership structures among our domestic and international locations. Identifying key stakeholders and their priorities Developing and implementing our stakeholder engagement plan Developing and""
""maintaining mechanisms and  management systems to receive comments and feedback from communities Engaging with the community, ensuring that  communication is accessible to meet their needs  Reporting to relevant stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement Process 111  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PROSPERITY Community Engagement  and Social Investment Managing Our Supply Chain  Industry Engagement and Leadership Engagement for All""
""Oxy is dedicated to creating opportunities for conversations with those who live or work near our operations. These conversations facilitate our understanding  of the communities we operate in and help us provide fair treatment and meaningful involvement to all people regardless of race, color, national origin,  gender or socio-economic level. We work closely with and learn from disadvantaged communities to understand their unique needs. We strive to incorporate  environmental and social""
""considerations obtained from screening tools and community input into company decision-making and processes, including the  design of our projects. To amplify the benefits of our social and capital investments, we seek to invest our time and resources in programs and initiatives that  support the areas surrounding our operations, to advance our relationships with neighboring communities, and to promote mutually beneficial outcomes.  Improving the quality of life and the environment in""
""underserved communities is central to the UN SDGs and many national, state and local programs in the  United States and other countries where we operate. In addition to our workforce, social and capital investments, we engage in policy discussions with NGOs  and leading businesses across industry sectors to help support our host governments in strengthening disadvantaged communities. 112  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES""
""regulators, including air quality  monitoring summaries and operational notices.  By prioritizing community engagement, we  are sharing information and we are listening.  Whether hearing from individuals through our   local Response Lines, in community meetings,  or through community-specific engagement  tools, we collaborate with diverse community  stakeholders to tailor operations to unique  situations. We consider this information in facility  siting, design and operating plans, with the aim""
""of  promoting responsible uses of land.  In addition to our regular community leaders  and stakeholders, community members may  confidentially report potential issues related  to compliance with laws, regulations, our Code  of Business Conduct, company policies or  procedures, and ethical conduct to us through the  Oxy Integrity Helpline (1-800-699-7702).  These  reports may be made anonymously. 113  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT""
""APPENDICES PROSPERITY Community Engagement  and Social Investment Managing Our Supply Chain  Industry Engagement and Leadership I just want to applaud [the Oxy Stakeholder Relations Team] for the engagement  that was done in this Development Plan, and for this information and how it’s  presented. You’ve done a good job of outreach to the folks that are nearby.  Colorado Energy and Carbon Management Commissioner Stakeholder Relations Framework The Stakeholder Relations team excels in planning,""
""local governments  and community organizations to build trusting relationships.  This trust allows the team to uncover interests and concerns  that many times stakeholders are unclear about themselves. By  understanding the root of concerns and identifying priorities, the  team applies strategies to collaborate with stakeholders in a way  that enhances our projects. Focused on solutions Experienced in eliciting feedback  WHAT PEOPLE SAY 114  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE""
""educational level, cultural and  social norms, and environmental and climate  conditions. Based on these factors, we  identify the communities where we believe  our engagement can provide the most  benefit and where our operations can play a  role in regional sustainability. We regularly  solicit and incorporate feedback from the  Ministry of Energy and Minerals on our social  responsibility program and projects.     Our communication channels with  stakeholders include official correspondence""
""and regular meetings, including direct  communication with our Corporate Social  Responsibility team. On a weekly basis,  the team evaluates requests received from  stakeholders and reports back to them.  Our comprehensive reporting system helps  confirm that relevant information is shared  with stakeholders and their questions or  concerns are addressed. Matters of common  interest are routinely discussed with local  governments and the Ministry of Energy and  Minerals, as warranted.  Investing""
""wanting to take outreach to the  next level in their community, Oxy offers an  Advocate and Ambassador training program  to our employees that prepares them to  engage and speak with public constituents  about Oxy, and the industry in general, at  community events and public forums. A lack  of information can lead to misunderstanding  or concern about energy production. This  program helps our workforce share Oxy’s  values, Operating Management System and  standards, community contributions and""
""their own personal experiences working in  the industry.   115  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PROSPERITY Community Engagement  and Social Investment Managing Our Supply Chain  Industry Engagement and Leadership OxyChem Community Advisory Panels   Community engagement efforts at OxyChem are  well established, with the majority of OxyChem  plants hosting active Community Advisory Panels  (CAPs) that provide a regular forum for""
""TX 116  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PROSPERITY Community Engagement  and Social Investment Managing Our Supply Chain  Industry Engagement and Leadership Health and  Safety Education Social  Services Military and  Veterans Environment Arts, Culture  and Sport Community Vitality Social Investment  Oxy’s dedication to community and social investment focuses on economic and social well-being for all, and particularly for those""
""lasting  bonds with their neighbors. Our social investment programs are designed with the needs of the community and the UN SDGs in mind and focus on: 117  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PROSPERITY Community Engagement  and Social Investment Managing Our Supply Chain  Industry Engagement and Leadership Please note that the figures above are only a few examples of our contributions, many of which are international and span""
""multiple years. Committing to Good: By the Numbers 1B $2MM 6,000+ Gallons of Clean Drinking  Water with Water Mission  to Feeding America  network of food banks Students Sponsored  for Arts Education  $3MM for First  Responders $1MM to the American  Red Cross $10MM Houston Medical Scholars Program 72,000+ Books for Students 650+ 2,500+ Veteran  Employees Children’s Bicycles and  Helmets Donated 118  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT""
""Intervention  Rehabilitation Supported a group which helps Omani children  with disabilities and rare diseases, including  training for their families.  119  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PROSPERITY Community Engagement  and Social Investment Managing Our Supply Chain  Industry Engagement and Leadership 72,000+ Books Provided to Students Since 2021, Oxy has sponsored Oman’s AWTAD 3D Printing Program, in  collaboration with""
""Support Program 2021+ Supporting 3D Printing Technologies 600+ Benefitted Students We know that the future of our company, our society’s energy security and our planet depends on educating the generations that will one day lead us. Oxy is keenly  focused on providing educational opportunities across the communities where we live and work. Our efforts range from supporting science, technology, engineering  and math (STEM) programs to initiatives aimed at raising literacy and graduation rates""
""within economically disadvantaged and underserved communities. Education  120  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PROSPERITY Community Engagement  and Social Investment Managing Our Supply Chain  Industry Engagement and Leadership Social Services Part of Oxy’s social empowerment strategy includes analyzing social and  economic demographics in communities to identify locations of greatest  need. We aim to align our resource""
""with the thousands of member company employees who live and work  in the Permian Basin, are committed to safe and environmentally responsible  operations and participate in projects that aim to improve the quality of  life in the Permian. PSP has invested in educational capacity, workforce  training, expanded healthcare access and improved transportation safety and  infrastructure across the region. 121  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT""
""program has enabled  Oxy to demonstrate our dedication to the welfare of the less fortunate while  helping improve health, promote food security, strengthen relationships and  advance our core values and HSE&S Principles.   Water is also a precious resource. Oxy supports communities in our  concession areas in Oman by delivering supplies of fresh water. In Oman,  our Corporate Social Responsibility initiative provides drinking water to over  13,000 people living in remote villages and""
""settlements across our operating  areas. Through 31 water haulage contracts maintained by local residents and  supervised by the local government, tankers deliver water to individual homes  and izbas for household use and livestock watering. This initiative helps  cover water shortages in concession areas to improve the standard of living  in these villages, as well as raise economic standards for the residents living  in and around these areas. This project began in 2008 and has expanded  over""
""the years, delivering drinking water from groundwater and desalinated  sources annually to users at distances up to 200 kilometers. In Oman, our  commitment to this project demonstrates our efforts to improve the lives of  local communities near our operations.  In Abu Dhabi, we have partnered with the Emirates Foundation in multiple  social responsibility programs. In 2023, Oxy Abu Dhabi volunteers  participated in the Emirates Foundation’s “The Joy of Eid” initiative to prepare  and distribute""
""boxes of donated clothes to families in need. 122  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PROSPERITY Community Engagement  and Social Investment Managing Our Supply Chain  Industry Engagement and Leadership HIGHLIGHT In August 2023, Oxy employees volunteered a total of nearly 1,300 hours, donated and packed over 210,000 pounds of food, and provided over 395,000  meals for children, families, seniors and veterans in need.   August""
""2023 Hunger Action Month  371 Oxy volunteers 1,298 Volunteer hours 210,000 Pounds of food packed and donated 395,000 Total meals provided 123  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PROSPERITY Community Engagement  and Social Investment Managing Our Supply Chain  Industry Engagement and Leadership Military and Veterans Oxy strongly believes in honoring those who have helped protect our freedoms through their military service. Our""
""the U.S. Coast Guard Foundation’s Full Mission Support Fund, which supports a variety of public  needs including emergency response for hurricane relief. 124  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PROSPERITY Community Engagement  and Social Investment Managing Our Supply Chain  Industry Engagement and Leadership Please note that the organizations above are only a few examples of the many organizations we support. Environment""
""Supporting organizations dedicated to protecting our environment.  Our commitment to a low-carbon future means leading with passion in supporting organizations dedicated to protecting our environment. From reducing waste  and supporting recycling in our communities to protecting natural resources in the oceans and on land, Oxy’s ongoing efforts are guided by the UN SDGs, which  help us prioritize time and resources in our environmental initiatives. National Fish and Wildlife Foundation Water""
""Mission Gulf of Mexico Alliance Oxy World Cleanup Day Keep Midland Beautiful Wildlife Habitat Council  Working with the NFWF’s Pecos Watershed  Conservation Initiative as a founding partner to  enhance and restore natural wildlife habitats in  New Mexico and west Texas.  Helping more than one million people, in 18  countries or territories, gain access to safe  drinking water since 2016.   Helping fund the Diamond Terrapin Conservation  Action Plan, foster sustainable seafood production  and""
""support thriving coastal communities. Oxy Abu Dhabi volunteers collected and managed  miscellaneous waste from the UAE Onshore Block  3 Concession. Supporting this dedicated organization in  recycling, water conservation and beautification initiatives. Working with the WHC to help advance  biodiversity and restore land to its natural state  in multiple locations nationwide.  125  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PROSPERITY""
""Community Engagement  and Social Investment Managing Our Supply Chain  Industry Engagement and Leadership HIGHLIGHT In alignment with UN SDG 3: Good Health and Well-Being and UN SDG 6: Clean Water and Sanitation, OxyChem has partnered with Water Mission since 2016,  helping more than one million people, in 18 countries or territories, gain access to safe drinking water. OxyChem has donated over 160,000 pounds of ACL® water  disinfection tablets that Water Mission has used to produce more than""
""one billion gallons of clean drinking water. In recognition, OxyChem was honored for its  Water Mission partnership in 2020 with the Sustainability Leadership Award from the American Chemistry Council and in 2021 with the Social Impact Award  from the Vinyl Sustainability Council.  Water Mission Traveling for water average daily time savings of  1 to 1.5 hours per household Clean water Providing 95,000 people with  access to clean drinking water Solar energy produced >79,000 kWh produced over""
""two years in providing this  water supply Reduction in carbon emissions >69,000 metric tons  of CO2e reduced over  two years Verified impacts  of water projects  in Tanzania The Bahamas Ethiopia Kenya Tanzania Malawi Puerto Rico St. Vincent Haiti Honduras Mexico Guatemala Peru Liberia Uganda Bangladesh Indonesia Burundi United States 126  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PROSPERITY Community Engagement  and Social Investment""
""our Corporate Social Responsibility  program. The award acknowledges Oxy’s efforts to foster the growth and  development of sports. The award ceremony was hosted under the auspices  of H.E. Sibaa Al Sadi, the Secretary-General of the General Secretariat for  National Celebrations, and organized by the Minister of Culture, Sports and  Youth. 127  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PROSPERITY Community Engagement  and Social""
""underscores our dedication to  fostering entrepreneurial spirit and career development in Oman. 128  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PROSPERITY Community Engagement  and Social Investment Managing Our Supply Chain  Industry Engagement and Leadership HIGHLIGHT Oxy is dedicated to supporting programs that promote well-being for individuals and communities. As part of this effort, we exclusively sponsor the Oxy  Ultramarathon in""
""enthusiasm and  sportsmanship of participants from diverse backgrounds, including our own employees and families. We hope that the event empowers people toward  active living, and continues support for sports development and excellence in Oman,” said Steven. Oxy Hosts Second Ultramarathon in Oman 129  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PROSPERITY Community Engagement  and Social Investment Managing Our Supply Chain  Industry""
""and  emission controls to reduce and manage risks and the environmental  footprint of projects. The supplier or contractor must provide necessary HSE&S training,  equipment and procedures and appropriate supervision for its own  employees and subcontractors in the performance of their work for Oxy. Our standard agreements with suppliers and contractors require their  compliance with: Applicable laws and regulations, including those with respect to HSE&S,  anti-corruption, employment and human""
""rights Oxy’s policies, standards and procedures applicable to their work on our  behalf and/or at our facilities, such as for job safety analyses, permits to  work, incident reporting and Stop Work Authority. 130  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PROSPERITY Community Engagement  and Social Investment Managing Our Supply Chain  Industry Engagement and Leadership Oxy maintains ongoing engagement with our suppliers and""
""contractors, involving Oxy’s Operations, Supply Chain and HSE&S teams. These normally include: OxyChem’s Supplier Code of Conduct conveys the compliance standards expected from contractors and suppliers and includes applicable internationally  recognized environmental, social and corporate governance standards and the American Chemistry Council’s Responsible Care® program. Sharing updates of our OMS and applicable policies and procedures Collaborating on HSE&S innovation, training and collateral""
""materials, such as our Life-Saving Rules and Stop Work Authority practices to reduce hazards Holding periodic meetings with supplier and contractor management to discuss HSE&S topics and project performance Maintaining our Safety Engagement and Management Program scorecard with our on-site suppliers and contractors to share HSE&S performance data and  lessons learned, identify opportunities for improvement and elevate potential issues for resolution Conducting Contractor Field Audits of HSE&S""
""performance with tracking of action plans to address findings Pursuing contractual remedies, potentially including contract termination, for non-compliance by a supplier or contractor with laws, regulations, key policies  or contractual requirements Conducting a periodic internal review among Operations, Supply Chain and HSE&S teams regarding our supplier and contractor management program to  promote continuous improvement. 131  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE""
""advance the capabilities of participating SMEs.   132  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PROSPERITY Community Engagement  and Social Investment Managing Our Supply Chain  Industry Engagement and Leadership Industry Engagement and Leadership   Oxy’s experience in managing natural resources and CO2, coupled with our sustainability strategy, has enabled us to create partnerships with a diverse set of key  stakeholders who work""
""toward improved business and sustainability-related goals. Oxy is an active participant in the following leading organizations, including:  OxyChem received the industry’s highest  Sustainability Leadership Award from the ACC in  2020 for its partnership with Water Mission, which  facilitates access to clean drinking water for  refugees and disaster areas around the world.   ACC’s Responsible Care® Awards Program  recognizes chemical industry leaders for  exceptional commitments to HSE""
""performance,  sustainability and sound chemicals management.  For 2023 performance, OxyChem earned 37  Responsible Care® awards in safety, waste  minimization and energy efficiency categories.  The Texas Chemistry Council recognized OxyChem  with 19 awards for safety and environmental  performance, and OxyChem received awards from  the Vinyl Institute and the Chlorine Institute. In  addition, OxyChem plants in Pedricktown, NJ and  New Johnsonville, TN received environmental  performance awards""
""from the New Jersey and  Tennessee Governors, respectively.    Ipieca is the global oil and gas association  dedicated to advancing environmental and  social performance across the industry. It brings  together members and stakeholders to lead in  integrating sustainability by advancing climate  action, environmental responsibility and social  performance across oil, gas and renewables activities. OGCI is a CEO-led initiative composed of twelve of  the world’s leading energy companies, producing""
""around a third of global oil and gas. OGCI focuses  on leading the industry’s response to climate  change and accelerating action toward a net- zero future consistent with the goals of the Paris  Agreement. A partnership between the Global Maritime  Forum, the Friends of Ocean Action and the World  Economic Forum, this coalition brings together  global decision-makers from across the maritime  shipping value chain with key stakeholders from  the energy sector and governments. Their goal is  to""
""reduce shipping-related emissions by at least  50% by 2050. OxyChem is a member of the Vinyl Institute and  serves on its VSC, supporting strong policies  focused on product innovation, stewardship  and water infrastructure. The VSC serves as the  subject matter leader on sustainability issues  pertaining to the vinyl industry in North America.  The VSC champions science-based improvement  practices to meet the needs of current and future  generations as well as its members’ sustainability""
""efforts through educational programs and  company- or product-specific sustainability  assessments, reporting and goals development.   OxyChem is certified +Vantage Vinyl™ Gold and  the only PVC resin manufacturer to score 100% in  all five sustainability categories. 133  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES PROSPERITY Community Engagement  and Social Investment Managing Our Supply Chain  Industry Engagement and Leadership""
""OxyChem’s knowledge and expertise in water  disinfection has made OxyChem a key partner in  the Global Water Center®. OxyChem has donated  over 160,000 pounds of our ACL® product to  Water Mission for use in water disinfection and  $250,000 to the Global Water Center to support  water education materials and exhibits. Oxy is a member of the Marine Preservation  Association (MPA), the leading organization  supporting the development and maintenance  of a broadly funded, effective spill response""
""capability in the United States. Through the MPA,  Oxy helps set the highest standards for prevention  of oil spills in the marine environment. The members of the Gulf of Mexico Alliance  include state and federal agencies, tribal  governments, communities, academic  organizations, businesses and NGOs in the region.  The Alliance provides a forum for collaboration,  develops tools to address regional issues, enables  strategic partnerships and tracks restoration efforts. As part of the DOE’s""
""Better Plants® Program,  OxyChem partnered with the Industrial  Assessment Centers (IACs) to perform energy  audits at our facilities and help local schools lower  their energy costs with efficiency improvements  funded by OxyChem. The Department of Energy  recognized OxyChem for these efforts with Better  Practice awards in 2022 and early 2024.    API is a national trade association that sponsors  the Energy Excellence program to accelerate  safety and environmental progress across the oil  and""
""gas industry, while meeting global demand for  affordable, reliable and cleaner energy. OxyChem earned a Bronze rating in 2023  from EcoVadis, an organization that provides  sustainability ratings on more than 130,000  companies globally, placing OxyChem in the top  quartile of global chemical companies. IOGP is the global trade association for the oil  and gas industry that focuses on excellence in  safe, efficient and sustainable energy supply and  serving as an enabling partner for a low-""
""carbon future. Oxy is an active member of the Carbon Capture  Coalition, comprising over 100 stakeholder  members from diverse industries, unions and  NGOs working to support federal legislation,  regulations and policies to incentivize CCUS. CDP, formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project,  is a non-profit organization that maintains  a comprehensive dataset on corporate and  municipal action on climate change, water  security and other environmental matters. In  2023, Oxy earned an “A-” score from""
""CDP for  climate disclosure at CDP’s Leadership Level, tied  for the top score in the global E&P industry.  134  PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES ABOUT THIS REPORT Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 135  PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES About this Report Oxy’s sustainability reporting and strategy align with the World Economic Forum’s (WEF) four pillars of  stakeholder capitalism: principles of governance, people, planet and""
""prosperity. Each pillar represents  a key focus area as Oxy continues to implement and enhance sustainable business practices and  programs. Oxy was the first U.S. oil and gas company to endorse the WEF’s Stakeholder Capitalism  Metrics, a global framework that promotes transparency with investor and stakeholder engagement. Our sustainability reporting processes are also informed by the Sustainability Accounting Standards  Board (SASB), Ipieca’s Sustainability Reporting Guidance, and the""
""recommended disclosure frameworks  adopted in the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and the Taskforce on  Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD), which are organized based on governance, strategy, risk  management and metrics and targets. Further, Oxy’s quantitative ESG metrics are mapped to relevant  topics in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Universal Standards 2021 and applicable GRI topic-specific  and Oil and Gas sector-specific standards, as well as the""
""ACC’s Responsible Care® initiative and the API’s  Energy Excellence® program. Oxy’s sustainability reporting and strategy deliver value to our shareholders by being directly tied to our  service as an employer, neighbor and Partner of Choice®. We aim, as a responsible corporate citizen, through our operations and  investments to: Create shared value for our shareholders, workforce, communities, customers and suppliers Help to meet society’s needs for reliable energy and essential products""
""Protect the environment and conserve natural resources Meet the needs of our stakeholders through ethical business practices, environmental stewardship,  community investment and fair treatment of our workforce around the world. Additional Oxy Reporting Guidance Complementing the WEF’s pillars of stakeholder capitalism and the reporting guidance from the  organizations noted above, seven reporting principles guide the structure and content of Oxy’s reporting process. The content represents""
""stakeholder perspectives on the most relevant sustainability issues and the  topics that Oxy considers most significant to our business operations and our stakeholders. We generally  align reported indicators to the SASB Standards and with the Ipieca Sustainability Reporting Guidance,  both of which were developed to establish consistent industry-specific disclosure and facilitate  communication among companies, investors and other key stakeholders. Our reporting is also informed  by the TCFD""
""and TNFD recommendations to address governance, strategy, risk management and metrics  and targets. Our reporting provides information on our global operations across our oil and gas, chemical and  midstream and marketing segments, as well as sustainability and community programs and their effects  on our stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, contractors and suppliers, customers, joint  venture partners, NGOs, governments and the communities where we operate. Oxy applies operational""
""control as our primary organizational boundary for climate and sustainability  reporting. Oxy’s operated assets include those in the oil and gas, chemical and midstream and marketing  segments, with Oxy Low Carbon Ventures (OLCV) included within the midstream and marketing segment,  and other operated assets where applicable that are not part of the foregoing segments. Unless  otherwise indicated, quantitative performance data are based on Oxy’s operational control and do not  include outside-""
""operated joint ventures or facilities, customers or end users of Oxy’s products. Relevance Scope Boundary Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 136  PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES The Board is engaged to oversee the strategy established by executive leadership, including on  sustainability, and associated external reporting on certain strategic matters. The Board’s S&SE  Committee is responsible for oversight of Oxy’s external reporting on ESG and sustainability""
""matters,  including climate-related risks and opportunities. The Board’s EH&S Committee oversees Oxy’s Operating  Management System (OMS), which sets consistent worldwide expectations for managers and employees  throughout our operations to assess and manage performance and risks. The reported indicators are based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing,  internal controls and processes that continue to evolve and definitions, assumptions, data sources and  estimates or""
""verification process for key GHG emissions estimates for several years. We strive to enhance our  reporting processes based on reporting guidance and our dialogue with shareholders and other stakeholders. We aim to provide clear, understandable information to address topics about which our key stakeholders  have expressed an interest and to continue improving our associated processes. We report on annual performance indicators and data and our activities through year-end 2023, except  where""
""indicated. Integration and Alignment Credibility Transparency Timeliness ¹ This sustainability topic prioritization assessment process is sometimes called a materiality assessment by other organizations. As a U.S. public company, Oxy’s financial  reporting is governed by U.S. securities laws and regulated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. These laws and regulations and associated court decisions  define materiality for financial reporting in a manner that differs from the way that""
""term is used in sustainability or ESG reporting standards, frameworks and/or guidance  from the organizations noted elsewhere in this document. Inclusion of information in our Sustainability and Climate Reports, our website or other public forums does not  necessarily indicate such information is material to an investor in our securities, so we use the term Topic Prioritization Assessment.  Sustainability Report Topic Prioritization Our topic prioritization assessment1 process is generally""
""consistent with approaches provided by  sustainability standards, frameworks and guidelines developed by voluntary sustainability standards  boards and industry-specific organizations. We use a multi-step approach to our assessment process, beginning with defining the objectives  of the assessment. Potential topics of relevance are identified by establishing internal and external  context, including using methods such as reviewing our business strategy, reviewing relevant topics  in our""
""Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program, peer benchmarking, value chain mapping and  consulting leading standards and frameworks. Relevant stakeholder groups are identified through  stakeholder mapping. We engage with our key internal and external stakeholders (including shareholders,  communities, employees, regulatory agencies, customers, suppliers and professional organizations)  through multiple platforms to gauge the significance of relevant sustainability topics. Data obtained from  the""
""stakeholder engagement process is transformed into a quantitative score and used to prioritize the  topics and integrate the outcomes into our corporate sustainability strategy and define the boundaries of  our sustainability reports. The topics on which we focus our sustainability reporting are reviewed periodically based on, among  other things: guidance from our Board of Directors; feedback from our shareholders during our  engagement process and on the latest reports; input from other key""
""stakeholders such as communities  where we operate, our workforce and the organizations with which we collaborate; information from  our OMS and our HSE&S, Human Resources, ERM and other programs; developments in our company  strategy and businesses; relevant ESG and sustainability frameworks and standards; and industry- specific guidance and trends. Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 137  PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES Identify objectives and audience of the""
""assessment Consider overall business strategic priorities, strategic investments and operating areas Review the topics under our Enterprise Risk Management program Identify and analyze key ESG/sustainability megatrends for relevancy to Oxy Identify potential topics from sustainability partnerships and organizations Consult relevant frameworks and standards (SASB Standards, GRI Standards, TCFD, TNFD, Ipieca  Sustainability Reporting Guidance, WEF Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics, UN SDGs) Sector""
""benchmarking Value Chain Impact Mapping Identify potential topics of interest to sustainability rating agencies Define Purpose and Scope Establish Internal and External Context Key internal and external stakeholder engagement through multiple platforms and feedback mechanisms Document significance and relevance of topics to business and stakeholders Engage Stakeholders Assess results of research and stakeholder engagement Integration of topic prioritization results into corporate strategy""
""Prioritize topics based on relevance and importance to our business and to shareholders and other  key stakeholders External reporting on progress Topic Prioritization Implement Results Multi-Step Assessment  Process Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 138  APPENDICES Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 139 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES Lucius Truss Spar, Gulf of Mexico  PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES Oxy Sustainability""
""Report 2024 140 OXY 2019—2023 ESG DATA SUMMARY   PLANET METRIC 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 WEF-IBC IPIECA-API-IOGP SASB GRI Universal Standard 2021/ GRI Topic Standard GRI Oil & Gas Sector  Standard Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions (million metric tons CO2  equivalent) — Total Oxy (Oil & Gas, OxyChem, and Other Operations) [1] [2] Direct GHGs (Scope 1) operated basis   *Item verified by ERM CVS 17.37 * 17.60 * 18.50 * 19.02 21.62 Planet, Core:   Climate Change    Greenhouse Gas Emissions  CCE-4: C1""
""EM-EP-110a.1   EM-MD-110a.1  RT-CH-110a.1 GRI 305-1 Not Applicable Indirect GHGs (Scope 2) operated basis   *Item verified by ERM CVS 4.55 * 4.90 * 4.84 * 4.81 5.91 Planet, Core:   Climate Change  Greenhouse Gas Emissions  CCE-4: C2 Not Applicable GRI 305-2 Not Applicable Total GHGs (Scope 1 and 2) operated basis  *Items verified by ERM CVS 21.91 * 22.5 * 23.34 * 23.83 * 27.53 * Planet, Core:   Climate Change  Greenhouse Gas Emissions  CCE-4: C1, C2 Not Applicable GRI 305-1  GRI 305-2 Not""
""Applicable Direct GHGs (Scope 1) equity basis 15.27 15.28 14.54 14.85 15.96 Planet, Core:  Climate Change  Greenhouse Gas Emissions  CCE-4: C1 EM-EP-110a.1   EM-MD-110a.1  RT-CH-110a.1 GRI 305-1 Not Applicable Indirect GHGs (Scope 2) equity basis 3.44 3.65 3.87 3.86 4.74 Planet, Core:   Climate Change    Greenhouse Gas Emissions  CCE-4: C2 Not Applicable GRI 305-2 Not Applicable Total GHGs (Scope 1 and 2) equity basis 18.71 18.93 18.41 18.71 20.70 Planet, Core:   Climate Change  Greenhouse Gas""
""Emissions  CCE-4: C1, C2 Not Applicable GRI 305-1   GRI 305-2 Not Applicable Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions (million metric tons CO2  equivalent) — Oil & Gas [1] [2]                                                                                                                                                            Direct GHGs (Scope 1) operated basis   *Item verified by ERM CVS 11.15 * 11.35 * 13.08 * 12.91 15.41 Planet, Core:   Climate Change  Greenhouse Gas Emissions  CCE-4: C3 EM-EP-110a.1""
""EM-MD-110a.1 GRI 305-1 11.1.5 Indirect GHGs (Scope 2) operated basis   *Item verified by ERM CVS 2.93 * 3.20 * 3.17 * 3.16 4.01 Planet, Core:   Climate Change  Greenhouse Gas Emissions  CCE-4: C3 Not Applicable GRI 305-2 11.1.6 Total GHGs (Scope 1 and 2) operated basis  *Items verified by ERM CVS 14.08 * 14.55 * 16.25 * 16.07 * 19.42 * Planet, Core:   Climate Change  Greenhouse Gas Emissions  CCE-4: C3  Not Applicable GRI 305-1   GRI 305-2 11.1.5  11.1.6 Direct GHGs (Scope 1) equity basis 9.07""
""9.03 9.13 8.75 9.75 Planet, Core:   Climate Change  Greenhouse Gas Emissions  CCE-4: C3  EM-EP-110a.1  EM-MD-110a.1 GRI 305-1 11.1.5 Indirect GHGs (Scope 2) equity basis 1.82 1.94 2.20 2.22 2.85 Planet, Core:   Climate Change  Greenhouse Gas Emissions    CCE-4: C3  Not Applicable GRI 305-2 11.1.6 Data as of 08/30/2024 APPENDIX I  PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 141 Total GHGs (Scope 1 and 2) equity basis 10.89 10.97 11.33""
""10.97 12.60 Planet, Core:  Climate Change  Greenhouse Gas Emissions  CCE-4: C3 Not Applicable GRI 305-1   GRI 305-2 11.1.5  11.1.6 Scope 3 GHG Emissions (million metric tons CO2  equivalent) — Oil & Gas [1] [2] [3]                                                                                                                                                                Scope 3 GHG emissions – operated basis, Transportation, Refining  and Use of Sold Products   *Item verified by ERM CVS[2] 234""
""* 217 * 212 * 226 259 Planet, Core:   Climate Change  Greenhouse Gas Emissions  CCE-4: A2, A7 Not Applicable GRI 305-3 11.1.7 Scope 3 GHG emissions – equity basis, Transportation, Refining and  Use of Sold Products   *Item verified by ERM CVS[2] 184 * 175 * 176 * 196 151 Planet, Core:   Climate Change  Greenhouse Gas Emissions  CCE-4: A2, A7 Not Applicable GRI 305-3 11.1.7 Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions (million metric tons CO2  equivalent) — OxyChem""
""Direct GHGs (Scope 1) operated basis   *Item verified by ERM CVS 6.20 * 6.25 * 5.41 * 6.10 6.21 Planet, Core:   Climate Change  Greenhouse Gas Emissions  CCE-4: C3 Not Applicable GRI 305-1 Not Applicable Indirect GHGs (Scope 2) operated basis   *Item verified by ERM CVS 1.61 * 1.70 * 1.67 * 1.64 1.89 Planet, Core:   Climate Change  Greenhouse Gas Emissions  CCE-4: C3 Not Applicable GRI 305-2 Not Applicable Total GHGs (Scope 1 and 2) operated basis  *Items verified by ERM CVS 7.82 * 7.95 * 7.08 *""
""7.74 * 8.10 * Planet, Core:   Climate Change  Greenhouse Gas Emissions  CCE-4: C3 Not Applicable GRI 305-1   GRI 305-2 Not Applicable Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions (million metric tons CO2 equivalent) — Other Operations[4]                                                                                                                                                               Direct GHGs (Scope 1) operated basis 0.011 0.003 0.003 0.004 0.007 Planet, Core:   Climate Change  Greenhouse Gas""
""Emissions  CCE-4: C3 Not Applicable GRI 305-1 Not Applicable Indirect GHGs (Scope 2), operated basis 0 0 0.007 0.007 0.006 Planet, Core:   Climate Change  Greenhouse Gas Emissions  CCE-4: C3 Not Applicable GRI 305-2 Not Applicable Total GHGs (Scope 1 and 2), operated basis   *Item verified by ERM CVS 0.011 * 0.003 * 0.010 * 0.011 0.013 Planet, Core:   Climate Change  Greenhouse Gas Emissions  CCE-4: C3 Not Applicable GRI 305-1   GRI 305-2 Not Applicable Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions Intensity""
""(metric tons CO2e/BOE) — Oil & Gas [1] [2]                                                                    Direct GHG intensity (Scope 1) operated basis 0.0213 0.0233 0.0275 0.0254 0.0266 Not Applicable CCE-4: C4 Not Applicable GRI 305-4 11.1.8 Indirect GHG intensity (Scope 2) operated basis 0.0056 0.0066 0.0067 0.0062 0.0069 Not Applicable CCE-4: C4 Not Applicable GRI 305-4 11.1.8 Total GHG intensity (Scope 1 and 2) operated basis 0.0269 0.0299 0.0342 0.0316 0.0335 Not Applicable CCE-4: C4""
""Not Applicable GRI 305-4 11.1.8 Direct GHG intensity (Scope 1) equity basis 0.0203 0.0213 0.0214 0.0186 0.0271 Not Applicable CCE-4: C4 Not Applicable GRI 305-4 11.1.8 Indirect GHG intensity (Scope 2) equity basis 0.0041 0.0046 0.0052 0.0047 0.0079 Not Applicable CCE-4: C4 Not Applicable GRI 305-4 11.1.8 METRIC 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 WEF-IBC IPIECA-API-IOGP SASB GRI Universal Standard 2021/ GRI Topic Standard GRI Oil & Gas Sector  Standard APPENDIX I CONT. - OXY 2019—2023 ESG DATA SUMMARY Data""
""as of 08/30/2024  PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 142 Total GHG intensity (Scope 1 and 2) equity basis 0.0244 0.0259 0.0266 0.0233 0.0350 Not Applicable CCE-4: C4 Not Applicable GRI 305-4 11.1.8 Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions Intensity (metric tons CO2e/MT Production) — OxyChem""
""Direct GHG intensity (Scope 1) 0.551 0.528 0.467 0.551 0.515 Not Applicable CCE-4: C4 Not Applicable GRI 305-4 Not Applicable Indirect GHG intensity (Scope 2) 0.144 0.144 0.144 0.148 0.157 Not Applicable CCE-4: C4 Not Applicable GRI 305-4 Not Applicable Total GHG intensity (Scope 1 and 2) 0.695 0.672 0.611 0.699 0.672 Not Applicable CCE-4: C4 Not Applicable GRI 305-4 Not Applicable Total GHG intensity (Scope 1 and 2)   excluding power sales to the grid  0.513 0.506 0.489 0.526 0.508 Not""
""Applicable CCE-4: C4 Not Applicable GRI 305-4 Not Applicable Methane Emissions (CH4) (thousand metric tons)                                                                         Methane Emissions (Scope 1 and 2)  –  Oil & Gas, operated basis *Item  verified by ERM CVS 38.01 * 45.22 * 76.21 * 113.96 109.25 Planet, Core:   Climate Change  Greenhouse Gas Emissions  CCE-5: C1 EM-EP-110a.1  EM-MD-110a.1 Not Applicable  11.1.5  Methane Emissions (Scope 1 and 2)  –  OxyChem, operated basis  *Item""
""verified by ERM CVS 0.20 * 0.22 * 0.19 * 0.22 0.23 Planet, Core:   Climate Change  Greenhouse Gas Emissions  CCE-5: C1 Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable Methane Emissions (Scope 1 and 2) – Total Oxy, operated basis  *Item  verified by ERM CVS 38.21 * 45.44 * 76.40  114.18   109.48  Planet, Core:   Climate Change  Greenhouse Gas Emissions  CCE-5: C1 EM-EP-110a.1  EM-MD-110a.1 Not Applicable Not Applicable Methane Emissions (CH4) Intensity""
""Methane Emissions Intensity from Operated Oil & Gas Production (%  of operated wet gas production for market) [5] 0.20 0.26 0.45 0.62 0.56 Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable Methane Emissions Intensity from Operated Gas Production   (% of operated wet gas production for market) [5] 0.10 0.13 0.21 0.26 0.23 Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable Methane Emissions Intensity from Operated Oil & Gas Production  (metric ton""
""CH4/BOE) 0.00007 0.00009 0.00016 0.00022 0.00019 Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable Methane Emissions Intensity  –  OxyChem   (metric ton CH4/Thousand metric tons of production) 0.0179 0.0182 0.0163 0.0196 0.0195 Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable Gas Flaring — Oil & Gas [6]                                                                          Emissions from flaring (million metric tons CO2e) 0.87 1.08 1.81 1.94""
""2.32 Not Applicable CCE-7: C4 EM-EP-110a.2 Not Applicable  11.1.5 Flaring emissions intensity (metric tons CO2e/BOE) 0.00166 0.00222 0.00381 0.00382 0.00401 Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable Volume of routine gas flared (MMscf) 3,736 6,527 13,670 11,630 11,586 Not Applicable CCE-7: A2 Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable APPENDIX I CONT. - OXY 2019—2023 ESG DATA SUMMARY METRIC 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 WEF-IBC IPIECA-API-IOGP SASB GRI Universal""
""Standard 2021/ GRI Topic Standard GRI Oil & Gas Sector  Standard Data as of 08/30/2024  PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 143 Volume of non-routine gas flared (MMscf) 7,171 7,897 13,964 11,079 22,064 [7] Not Applicable CCE-7: A2 Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable Volume of safety gas flared (MMscf) 4,519 3,988 4,837 5,830 Not Applicable CCE-7: A2 Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable Volume of total gas flared""
""(MMscf) 15,415 18,412 32,472 28,539 33,649 Not Applicable CCE-7: C1 Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable Other Air Emissions  — Oil & Gas [8]                                                                                                                                                                 Nitrogen oxides (NOx) (thousand metric tons)  31.24 30.38 26.44 45.24 47.25 Planet, Expanded:   Air Pollution ENV-5: C1 EM-EP-120a.1  EM-MD-120a.1 GRI 305-7  11.3.2 Sulfur oxides (SOx)""
""(thousand metric tons) 1.50 1.89 3.88 4.12 3.78 Planet, Expanded:   Air Pollution ENV-5: C1 EM-EP-120.a1  EM-MD-120a.1 GRI 305-7  11.3.2 Carbon monoxide (CO) (thousand metric tons) 35.35 35.92 31.00 39.99 40.42 Planet, Expanded:   Air Pollution ENV-5: A1 Not Applicable GRI 305-7  11.3.2 Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) (thousand metric tons) 66.96 67.11 139.69 141.32 150.15 Planet, Expanded:   Air Pollution ENV-5: C1 EM-EP-120a.1  EM-MD-120a.1 GRI 305-7  11.3.2 Particulate Matter (PM) (thousand""
""metric tons) 2.50 2.93 2.94 1.77 1.97 Planet, Expanded:   Air Pollution ENV-5: A1 EM-EP-120a.1               EM-MD-120a.1 GRI 305-7  11.3.2 Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAPs) (thousand metric tons) 1.72 1.47 1.88 NA NA Planet, Expanded:   Air Pollution ENV-5: A1 Not Applicable GRI 305-7  11.3.2 Other Air Emissions  — OxyChem Nitrogen oxides (NOx) (thousand metric tons)  2.62 2.75 2.27 2.25 2.28 Planet, Expanded:   Air Pollution ENV-5: C1    RT-CH-120a.1 GRI 305-7 Not Applicable Sulfur oxides (SOx)""
""(thousand metric tons) 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.02 Planet, Expanded:   Air Pollution ENV-5: C1 RT-CH-120a.1 GRI 305-7 Not Applicable Carbon monoxide (CO) (thousand metric tons) 0.76 0.85 0.65 0.65 0.68 Planet, Expanded:   Air Pollution ENV-5: A1 Not Applicable GRI 305-7 Not Applicable Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) (thousand metric tons) 0.39 0.38 0.33 0.34 0.36 Planet, Expanded:   Air Pollution ENV-5: C1 RT-CH-120a.1 GRI 305-7 Not Applicable Particulate Matter (PM) (thousand metric tons) 0.74""
""0.88 0.75 0.73 0.76 Planet, Expanded:   Air Pollution ENV-5: A1 Not Applicable GRI 305-7 Not Applicable Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAPs) (thousand metric tons)  0.16 0.24 0.20 0.18 0.19 Planet, Expanded:   Air Pollution ENV-5: A1 RT-CH-120a.1 GRI 305-7 Not Applicable Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) (thousand pounds) 12.61 16.79  17.95  26.04 11.31 Planet, Expanded:   Air Pollution ENV-5: A1 Not Applicable GRI 305-7 Not Applicable Energy, Electricity and Hydrogen Utilization""
""Total energy consumption (GJ) – Total Oxy [9]  317,796,099 255,214,750 250,157,753 151,444,601 274,902,302 Not Applicable CCE-6: C1 RT-CH-130a.1 GRI 302-1 Not Applicable Total energy intensity (MMBtu/metric ton) – OxyChem 10.14 9.73  9.49 10.43 9.85 Not Applicable CCE-6: A2 Not Applicable GRI 302-3 Not Applicable APPENDIX I CONT. - OXY 2019—2023 ESG DATA SUMMARY METRIC 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 WEF-IBC IPIECA-API-IOGP SASB GRI Universal Standard 2021/ GRI Topic Standard GRI Oil & Gas Sector""
""Standard Data as of 08/30/2024  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 144 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES Total purchased electricity consumption (MWh) –Total Oxy 10,972,332 11,323,187 13,162,023 17,409,724 14,333,909 Not Applicable Not Applicable RT-CH-130a.1 GRI 302-1 Not Applicable Total renewable electricity on-site generation (MWh) – Total Oxy [10] 43,273 43,324 40,447 37,358 14,730 Not Applicable CCE-3: A4 RT-CH-130a.1 GRI 302-1 Not Applicable Total""
""renewable electricity on site consumption (MWh) – Total Oxy [11] 31,678 33,855 33,050 34,134 14,730 Not Applicable CCE-6: C1 RT-CH-130a.1  GRI 302-1 Not Applicable Total hydrogen combusted as non-carbon fuel (MMBtu) – OxyChem  9,787,195  10,740,919  10,537,151 10,391,539 9,308,493 Not Applicable CCE-3: A4 Not Applicable  Not Applicable Not Applicable Spills to Land or Surface Water and HSE Fines Reportable spills, crude  –  volume (bbl) 6,997  13,890  2,330  2,114  1,901  Not Applicable ENV-6:""
""C2 EM-EP-160a.2  EM-MD-160a.4 GRI 306-3 11.8.2 Reportable spills, crude  –  normalized volume (bbl/MMBOE) 13.4  30  5  4  3  Not Applicable ENV-6: C2 Not Applicable GRI 306-3 11.8.2 Reportable spills, crude  –  number 105  126  103  30 73 Not Applicable ENV-6: C2 EM-EP-160a.2  EM-MD-160a.4 GRI 306-3 11.8.2 Spilled crude, recovered  –  volume (bbl) 5,544  12,627  1,844  1,166 1,291 Not Applicable ENV-6: A1 EM-EP-160a.2  EM-MD-160a.4 Not Applicable 11.8.2 Reportable spills, produced water  –""
""volume (bbl) 49,426  55,981  6,553  10,493 18,677 Not Applicable ENV-6: A5 Not Applicable GRI 306-3 Not Applicable Reportable spills, produced water  –  number 83  96  75  11 67 Not Applicable ENV-6: A5 Not Applicable GRI 306-3 Not Applicable Reportable spills, chemicals – mass (lbs) – OxyChem [12] 24,452  30,450  57,425  4,440 53,234 Not Applicable ENV-6: A5 Not Applicable GRI 306-3 Not Applicable Reportable spills, chemicals – number – OxyChem  5  10  8  3 5 Not Applicable ENV-6: A5 Not""
""Applicable GRI 306-3 GRI 306-3 Spills, vinyl resin  –  mass (lbs) [13] 0  0  0  0 0 Not Applicable ENV-6: A5 Not Applicable GRI 306-3 Not Applicable Spills, vinyl resin  –  number [13] 0  0  0  0 0 Not Applicable ENV-6: A5 Not Applicable GRI 306-3 Not Applicable HSE fines (US$) 275,834  679,234  237,765  186,855 186,446 Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable GRI 2-27 Not Applicable Hydraulic Fracturing Hydraulically fractured wells for which there is public disclosure of  frac-fluid""
""chemicals used (%) 100  100  100  100 100 Not Applicable Not Applicable EM-EP-140a.3 Not Applicable Not Applicable Hydraulically fractured sites where ground or surface water quality  deteriorated compared to baseline (%) 0  0  0  0 0 Not Applicable Not Applicable EM-EP-140a.4 Not Applicable Not Applicable Water Total water withdrawn (megaliters) [14] 471,837  470,121  480,579  419,680 610,579 Not Applicable ENV-1: C1  ENV-1: A4 EM-EP-140a.1  RT-CH-140a.1 GRI 303-3  11.6.4 APPENDIX I CONT. - OXY""
""2019—2023 ESG DATA SUMMARY METRIC 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 WEF-IBC IPIECA-API-IOGP SASB GRI Universal Standard 2021/ GRI Topic Standard GRI Oil & Gas Sector  Standard Data as of 08/30/2024  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 145 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES Total freshwater withdrawn (megaliters) 108,698  118,648  140,585  145,853 257,770 Planet, Core:   Freshwater availability  Water consumption and withdrawal ENV-1: C1 EM-EP-140a.1  RT-CH-140a.1 GRI 303-3""
""11.6.4 Total non-freshwater withdrawn (megaliters) 363,139  351,473  339,994  273,827 352,809 Not Applicable ENV-1: A4 EM-EP-140a.1  RT-CH-140a.1 GRI 303-3  11.6.4 Total freshwater consumption (megaliters) 31,936 37,216  55,997  41,480 47,448 Planet, Core:   Freshwater availability  Water consumption and withdrawal ENV-1: C2 RT-CH-140a.1 GRI 303-5  11.6.6 Total wastewater discharged (megaliters)  183,728 179,306  188,471  196,596 295,536 Not Applicable ENV-2: A5 EM-EP-140a.2. GRI 303-4 11.6.5""
""Total produced/flowback water recycled/reused (megaliters) [15] 226,716  223,851  226,134  234,959 247,837 Not Applicable ENV-2: A5 EM-EP-140a.2 Not Applicable Not Applicable Produced/flowback water recycled/reused (%) [15] 48  48  47  52 41 Not Applicable ENV-2: A5 EM-EP-140a.2 Not Applicable Not Applicable Waste [16] Hazardous waste generated (thousand tons) - Oil & Gas  114  200  105  NA NA Not Applicable ENV-7: C3 Not Applicable GRI 306-3 11.5.4 Hazardous waste generated (thousand tons) -""
""OxyChem  51  58  62  48 50 Not Applicable Not Applicable RT-CH-150a.1 GRI 306-3 Not Applicable Non-hazardous waste generated (thousand tons) 204 190  103 80 58 Not Applicable ENV-7: C3 Not Applicable GRI 306-3 11.5.4 Total waste recycled (thousand tons)  225  249  92  85 120 Not Applicable ENV-7: C3 RT-CH-150a.1 GRI 306-4 11.5.5 Total waste to landfill (thousand tons) 125  76  73  61 46 Not Applicable ENV-7: C3 Not Applicable GRI 306-4  GRI 306-5 11.5.5 Biodiversity and Habitat Conservation Land""
""under management, including Candidate Conservation  Agreements, Candidate Conservation Agreements with Assurances  and Conservation Easements (acres) [17] 1,601,684  861,913  805,766  811,820 812,187 Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable GRI 304-3 11.4.4 Designated habitats protected – number [18] 14 13 12 14  12  Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable GRI 304-3 11.4.4 Wildlife Habitat Council Certified sites – number [19] 6  5  5  5  5  Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable""
""Not Applicable Not Applicable    PEOPLE  Fatalities  Employees 0  0  0  0 0 People, Core:   Health and well-being   Health and safety SHS-3: C1 EM-EP-320a.1   RT-CH-320a.1 GRI 403-9 11.9.10 APPENDIX I CONT. - OXY 2019—2023 ESG DATA SUMMARY METRIC 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 WEF-IBC IPIECA-API-IOGP SASB GRI Universal Standard 2021/ GRI Topic Standard GRI Oil & Gas Sector  Standard Data as of 08/30/2024  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 146 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT""
""Diversity and Inclusion SOC-5: C3 Not Applicable GRI 405-1 11.11.5 APPENDIX I CONT. - OXY 2019—2023 ESG DATA SUMMARY METRIC 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 WEF-IBC IPIECA-API-IOGP SASB GRI Universal Standard 2021/ GRI Topic Standard GRI Oil & Gas Sector  Standard Data as of 08/30/2024  PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES Minorities in Professional Positions, U.S. Total (%) 38  36  36  35  29  People, Core:   Dignity and Equality   Diversity and Inclusion SOC-5: C2 Not""
""bargaining Not Applicable Not Applicable GRI 2-30 Not Applicable Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 147 APPENDIX I CONT. - OXY 2019—2023 ESG DATA SUMMARY METRIC 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 WEF-IBC IPIECA-API-IOGP SASB GRI Universal Standard 2021/ GRI Topic Standard GRI Oil & Gas Sector  Standard Data as of 08/30/2024  PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES METRIC 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 WEF-IBC IPIECA-API-IOGP SASB GRI Universal Standard 2021/ GRI Topic Standard GRI Oil""
""2,870  2,535  6,367  Prosperity, Core:   Employment and wealth generation  Financial investment contribution Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable Total Production Production of Crude (Mbbl) operated - Gross 363,491 338,238 329,049 348,127 410,057 Not Applicable Not Applicable EM-EP-000.A Not Applicable Not Applicable Production of Natural Gas (MMcf) operated - Gross 963,669 889,453 876,996 957,282 1,014,439 Not Applicable Not Applicable EM-EP-000.A Not Applicable Not""
""Applicable Total Production of Oil & Natural Gas (MBOE) operated - Gross  524,103 486,480 475,215 507,674 579,130 Not Applicable Not Applicable EM-EP-000.A Not Applicable Not Applicable Production of Chemicals (metric tons) 11,286,878 11,825,554 11,571,432 11,080,612 12,062,219 Not Applicable Not Applicable RT-CH-000.A Not Applicable Not Applicable Total Production Sites Onshore operated oil and gas basins or regions 5  5  5  5  7  Not Applicable Not Applicable EM-EP-000.C Not Applicable Not""
""Applicable Offshore operated oil and gas platforms 9  10  10  10  10  Not Applicable Not Applicable EM-EP-000.B Not Applicable Not Applicable Chemical manufacturing plants 23  23  23  24  24  Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable Not Applicable Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 148 APPENDIX I CONT. - OXY 2019—2023 ESG DATA SUMMARY Data as of 08/30/2024 PROSPERITY   Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 149 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES""
""FOOTNOTES AND EXPLANATIONS TO ESG DATA SUMMARY NA = Not Available * These estimates have been verified by ERM Certification and Verification  Services, Inc. (ERM CVS) per the Independent Assurance Statements posted  on Oxy.com/Sustainability. Data in Italics reflect updated estimates for a prior reporting period based on  our review of data sources and methodologies. [1] Oxy applies operational control as our organizational boundary and  primary approach to reporting. We include within this""
""boundary the operated  oil and gas assets of Oxy, the assets operated by Occidental Chemical  Corporation (OxyChem) or its affiliates in the chemical segment, and certain  assets not part of oil and gas or chemical operations such as Carbon  Engineering ULC and company-operated aircraft; we exclude operated  assets that are sold in a given year. Oxy continues to refine our processes  and systems, including those with respect to equipment inventories and  estimation or measurement of GHG""
""emissions. Totals may not equal the sum  of components due to independent rounding. We also provide estimates of  certain production and emissions data on an equity basis, where data are  available, excluding assets that are sold in a given year. Our equity emissions  estimates currently reflect our proportionate equity interest in our operated  oil and gas and chemical assets and our third-party operated international  joint ventures. They do not reflect our equity interests in third-party""
""operations in the U.S., either onshore or offshore Gulf of Mexico, or passive  equity investments, because we do not currently have consistent access to  such data from those operators. We are evaluating processes to estimate  GHG emissions from third-party U.S. operators and expect to be in a position  to provide more information on those interests in the future. Equity-based  production data reflect oil and gas production presented in our annual Form  10-K.    [2] Oxy has commissioned limited""
""assurance verifications by ERM CVS  annually since 2021, covering emissions during 2019 through 2023. For 2019  and 2020, these included Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions from operated  assets company-wide and by business segment. For 2021 through 2023,  these included company-wide and business segment Scope 1, Scope 2, Total  Scope 1 and 2, and methane emissions from operated assets, and Scope 3  GHG emissions for transportation, refining and use of oil and gas products  (Category 9, 10 and 11,""
""respectively), our most relevant categories, on an  operated basis and equity basis. See Independent Assurance Statements  posted on Oxy.com/Sustainability. [3] Oxy’s Scope 3 estimates address the three most relevant categories in our  downstream oil and gas value chain – the transportation, refining and use of  our sold oil and gas products (Category 9, 10 and 11, respectively), applying  the 2009 and 2021 API Compendium and U.S.-based emission factors and  the EPA/IPCC AR4 GWP to our""
""production on an operated and equity basis.  The estimates for transportation and refining reflect our production entirely  as oil on a BOE basis with further transportation of the refined products,  rather than reflecting transportation and processing of natural gas or natural  gas liquids (NGLs) that would be expected to generate lower emissions. The  estimates for use of our sold products assume 100% combustion of oil, NGLs,  natural gas and downstream products and ignore non-emitting uses.""
""Equity- based Scope 3 emissions estimates reflect oil and gas production presented  in our annual Form 10-K.  [4] Other Operations primarily include Carbon Engineering ULC and company- operated aviation. [5] Oxy calculates methane emissions intensity in two ways, both presented  as a percentage of our wet natural gas produced from our operated assets  for market. Our primary method, which we are currently using to evaluate  progress toward our methane intensity target, compares the total""
""estimated  volume of our methane emissions from our operated oil and gas assets  (without distinguishing between methane emissions attributable to oil  production vs. gas production) to the volume of our operated wet gas  production. Oxy also assesses methane intensity using the Natural Gas  Sustainability Initiative (NGSI) method, which was published in 2021 and  divides estimated methane emissions attributed solely to gas production by  our operated wet gas production. Since our primary method""
""reflects methane  emissions from both oil and gas production, it yields higher intensities than  the NGSI method. [6] In 2020, Oxy endorsed the World Bank’s Initiative for Zero Routine Flaring  by 2030 and began applying the World Bank’s classification of routine flaring  to company-specific data from our oil and gas operations and estimating  routine, non-routine and safety flaring volumes separately. In 2019, Oxy  estimated the combined volume of non-routine and safety flaring and did not""
""differentiate between those categories.  [7] In 2019, Oxy estimated the combined volume of non-routine and safety  flaring and did not differentiate between those categories.  [8] Since 2021, NOx, SOx, CO, VOCs, and PM estimates have been based  on standard emission factors and equipment inventories for Oil and Gas  and OxyChem. For 2019 and 2020, OxyChem and international Oil and  Gas estimates were calculated in the same manner, while U.S. Oil and Gas  estimates were based on operated""
""production and throughput volume and  historical emission intensities of respective constituents.  [9] The estimation methodology for energy consumption was modified for  2023 and is based on GRI 302-1 (2016). Fuel consumption was converted to  GJ using standard conversion factors. [10] This metric represents estimates of renewable solar electricity generated  on site. Oxy operates the Goldsmith solar facility near Odessa, Texas. Oman  operations employ a solar hybrid power system to power""
""electric submersible  pumps at remote production wells.      APPENDIX I CONT. - OXY 2019—2023 ESG DATA SUMMARY  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 150 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES APPENDIX I CONT. - OXY 2019—2023 ESG DATA SUMMARY [11] The Goldsmith facility generates electricity for the needs of Oxy’s nearby  Goldsmith EOR field and the surplus power is supplied to the Texas grid. All  renewable electricity generated in our international operations is""
""consumed  on site. [12] Includes spills from OxyChem operated plants only to land or surface  water above a regulatory reportable quantity threshold for a chemical listed  under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and  Liability Act (CERCLA). Reportable releases to air from OxyChem are included  in the Other Air Emissions - OxyChem entries in this summary.     [13] Annualized release of plastic pellets, flakes, or granules from  containment to land or surface water outside of""
""OxyChem facilities and  estimated to be greater than 0.5 liters or 0.5 kilograms per incident, per the  American Chemistry Council’s Operation Clean Sweep® Blue Protocol.   [14] Total water withdrawn is defined as total fresh and non-fresh sources  (surface, municipal, groundwater, produced water and third-party water  sources). Fresh water defined as Total Dissolved Solids (TDS) <1,000 ppm.    [15] Produced/flowback water recycled/reused is defined as treated and/or  untreated produced water""
""used for completions, re-injection for improved or  enhanced oil recovery or for other beneficial reuse.    [16] Since 2021, waste data, excluding wastewater, are from OxyChem and  International Oil and Gas operations only. 2019 and 2020 estimates for waste  are from OxyChem operations only.   [17] Candidate Conservation Agreements (CCA), Candidate Conservation  Agreements with Assurances (CCAA) and Conservation Easements for U.S.  operations. A conservation easement is a voluntary, legal""
""associated acreage from these initiatives.    [18] Designated protected areas are defined by a U.S. Army Corps of  Engineers (USACE) permit, Ipieca or the International Union for Conservation  of Nature (IUCN).    [19] Oxy manages these voluntary Wildlife Habitat Council Conservation  Certified sites for biodiversity enhancement and conservation education  activities.     [20] Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) provides a measure of recordable  workplace injuries (excluding illnesses) applying""
""or to qualified federal, state or local organizations under  Section 170(c) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.                                                          Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 151 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND DATA  This report contains forward-looking statements based on management’s  current expectations relating to Oxy’s operations, strategies, outlook and  business""
""reliance on these forward-looking statements,  which speak only as of the date of this report. Actual outcomes or results may  differ from anticipated results, sometimes materially, and reported results  should not be considered an indication of future performance. In addition,  historical, current and forward-looking sustainability-related statements  may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing,  internal controls and processes that continue to evolve and""
""operations and development initiatives; our  ability to successfully monetize select assets and repay or refinance debt  and the impact of changes in our credit ratings or future increases in interest  rates; assumptions about energy markets; global and local commodity  and commodity-futures pricing fluctuations and volatility; supply and  demand considerations for, and the prices of, our products and services;  development, financing and deployment of technology necessary to execute  our""
""strategy; having sufficient land and appropriate joint venture partners  to execute on our strategies; actions by the Organization of the Petroleum  Exporting Countries (OPEC) and non-OPEC oil producing countries; results  from operations and competitive conditions; future impairments of our  proved and unproved oil and gas properties or equity investments, or write- downs of productive assets, causing charges to earnings; unexpected  changes in costs; inflation, its impact on markets and""
""capital expenditures, efficiency projects, acquisitions or  divestitures; risks associated with acquisitions, mergers and joint ventures,  such as difficulties integrating businesses, uncertainty associated with  financial projections, projected synergies, restructuring, increased costs  and adverse tax consequences; uncertainties and liabilities associated  with acquired and divested properties and businesses; uncertainties about  the estimated quantities of oil, natural gas and NGL reserves;""
""volatility in the securities, capital or credit  markets, including capital market disruptions and instability of financial  institutions; governmental actions, war (including the Russia-Ukraine war  and conflicts in the Middle East) and political conditions and events; health,  safety and environmental (HSE) risks, costs and liability under existing  or future federal, regional, state, provincial, tribal, local and international  HSE laws, regulations and litigation (including related to""
""climate change  or remedial actions or assessments); legislative or regulatory changes,  including changes relating to hydraulic fracturing or other oil and natural gas  operations, retroactive royalty or production tax regimes, and deep-water and  onshore drilling and permitting regulations; our ability to recognize intended  benefits from our business strategies and initiatives, such as our low-carbon  ventures businesses or announced GHG emissions reduction targets or net- zero goals; climate""
""change and other macro events that cannot be predicted  over the next 30 years; potential liability resulting from pending or future  litigation, government investigations and other proceedings; disruption  or interruption of production or manufacturing or facility damage due to  accidents, chemical releases, labor unrest, weather, power outages, natural  disasters, cyber-attacks, terrorist acts or insurgent activity; the scope and  duration of global or regional health pandemics or epidemics,""
""referenced third-party websites. APPENDIX II   Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 152 APPENDIX III PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES The GHG emissions estimates described in this report are derived from a  combination of direct measurement and calculated values using activity- based parameters and established emission factors as of December 31, 2023.  Oxy applies operational control as our organizational boundary and primary  approach to reporting. We include""
""within this boundary the operated oil and  gas assets of Oxy, the assets operated by Occidental Chemical Corporation  (OxyChem) or its affiliates in the chemical segment, and certain assets not  part of oil and gas or chemical operations such as Carbon Engineering ULC  and company-operated aircraft; we exclude operated assets that are sold in  a given year. We use industry standards and practices for estimating GHG  emissions, including guidance from the GHG Protocol, IPCC, Sustainability""
""Accounting Standards Board (SASB), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency  (EPA), American Petroleum Institute (API) and Ipieca and their specified  calculations and source categories. Oxy has endeavored to estimate direct  GHG emissions from our operations (Scope 1), including carbon dioxide  (CO2), methane, nitrous oxide and refrigerants which we consider the  GHGs relevant to our businesses; indirect CO2 emissions associated with  the generation by others of electricity, steam or heat that we""
""purchase for  use in our operations (Scope 2), and the three categories of CO2 emissions  generated by others in our downstream oil and gas value chain (Scope 3) that  we believe are most relevant—downstream transportation and distribution  of our oil and gas products (Category 9), processing and refining of our oil  and gas products (Category 10), and use of our sold oil and gas products by  Oxy’s customers and the ultimate consumers (Category 11). We continue to  refine our processes and""
""systems, including those with respect to equipment  inventories and estimation or measurement of GHG emissions. Uncertainties  associated with emissions estimates include, but are not limited to, variation  in processes and operations, the availability of sufficient representative data,  the quality of available data, and the methodologies used for measurement  and estimation. Oxy does not currently expect to update our GHG emissions  estimates for prior years unless there are significant""
""discrepancies or  omissions identified with respect to a prior year’s estimates, a significant  change has occurred in our organizational boundaries such as a significant  acquisition or divestiture, or a significant change has occurred to regulations  or protocols that, in each case, would cause GHG emissions to differ from  the prior estimate by more than 5% of our company-wide Scope 1 and 2  emissions estimate in the relevant year. Because no such significant changes  to our total Scope 1 and""
""2 GHG annual emissions estimates for 2019 through  2022 have been identified in this reporting period, this report incorporates  the data for those years that were presented in our 2023 Climate Report.  Even as techniques for emissions estimation and measurement are  refined, our Scope 1 and 2 net-zero goal and ambition are intended to cover  substantially all (greater than 95% of) source types of GHG emissions,  emissions avoidance, reductions and removals at facilities that we operate. Oxy""
""also provides estimates of certain emissions and production data on an  equity basis, where available, excluding assets that are sold in a given year.  Our equity emissions estimates currently reflect our proportionate equity  interest in our operated oil and gas and chemical assets and our third-party  operated international joint ventures. They do not reflect our equity interests  in third-party operations in the U.S., either onshore or offshore Gulf of Mexico,  or passive equity investments,""
""because we do not currently have consistent  access to such data from those operators. We are evaluating processes to  estimate GHG emissions from third-party U.S. operators and expect to be in a  position to provide more information on those interests in the future. Equity- based production data reflect oil and gas production presented in our annual  Form 10-K, and equity-based Scope 3 emissions estimates reflect that total  equity production.    Oxy’s Scope 3 estimates address the three most""
""relevant categories in our  downstream oil and gas value chain—the transportation, refining and use of  our sold oil and gas products (Category 9, 10 and 11, respectively), applying  the 2009 and 2021 API Compendium and U.S.-based emission factors and  the EPA/IPCC AR4 GWP to our production on an operated and equity basis.  The estimates for transportation and refining reflect our production entirely  as oil on a BOE basis with further transportation of the refined products,  rather than""
""reflecting transportation and processing of natural gas or NGLs  that would be expected to generate lower emissions. The estimates for use  of our sold products assume 100% combustion of oil, NGLs, natural gas  and downstream products and ignore non-emitting uses. While we believe  the downstream oil and gas value chain comprises the Scope 3 categories  most relevant to Oxy, we are continuing to assess methodologies to estimate  emissions associated with these and other Scope 3 categories with""
""respect  to our oil and gas, chemical and other operations and products. Reporting  of estimated emissions generated by others helps to evaluate the lifecycle  emissions associated with our operations and products and to aid in  expressing the magnitude of our net-zero goals and ambitions and does not  indicate an acceptance by Oxy of responsibility for the emissions of others.  There are multiple proposed or recently adopted changes to various GHG  reporting regulations and protocols, including""
""from the EPA, the SEC, the  GHG Protocol, certain countries, political and economic unions and states, as  well as for additional controls, fees or taxes on emissions. Given the potential  significance of these changes for estimation and reporting, Oxy may update  or modify our reported emissions and our current suite of GHG goals and  targets to reflect new regulations and protocols, although we expect to retain  our overarching net-zero goals and ambitions and to continue to implement""
""emissions reduction plans that we believe will complement our investments  in DAC, CCUS and other low-carbon technologies and infrastructure.                                                       ABOUT OUR GHG EMISSIONS ESTIMATES  PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES 2023 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT 153 Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 APPENDIX IV  APPENDIX IV CONT. - 2023 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS""
""REPORT APPENDICES 154 Oxy Sustainability Report 2024  APPENDIX IV CONT. - 2023 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES 155 Oxy Sustainability Report 2024  APPENDIX IV CONT. - 2023 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES 156 Oxy Sustainability Report 2024  PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES Independent Limited Assurance Report to""
""Occidental Petroleum Corporation ERM Certification & Verification Services Incorporated (“ERM CVS”) was engaged by Occidental Petroleum Corporation (“Oxy”) to provide limited assurance  in relation to the selected information set out below and presented in Oxy’s Climate Report, Sustainability Report, and annual summary of ESG performance  indicators on Oxy’s website (together the ‘Reports’) for the 2022 reporting period.   Engagement summary  Scope of our assurance  engagement  Whether the 2022""
""data for Oxy’s operations are fairly presented in the Reports, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria.     Scope 1 GHG Emissions [million metric tonnes CO2e]    Scope 2 GHG Emissions (location-based) [million metric tonnes CO2e]    Total GHG Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 (location-based)) [million metric tonnes CO2e]    Total Methane Emissions [thousand metric tonnes CH4]    Total Scope 3 GHG Emissions1, covering the following organizational boundaries [million""
""metric tonnes CO2e]:    Operated basis; and    Equity basis.  Reporting period  January 1, 2022 – December 31, 2022  Reporting criteria    American Petroleum Institute Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Methodologies for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry, 2009 &  2021    IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, 2006    US EPA Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule    WBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol (2004, as updated January 2015) for the Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG Emissions  Assurance""
""responsibility is to provide conclusions to Oxy on the agreed scope based on our engagement terms with Oxy, the assurance  activities performed and exercising our professional judgement.     1 ERM CVS assured total Scope 3 GHG emissions for oil and gas products comprised of only the following categories: Category 9: Downstream Transportation and Distribution, Category 10: Processing of Sold Products, and Category  11: Use of Sold Products.  2022 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT 157 Oxy""
""Sustainability Report 2024 APPENDIX V  PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES Our conclusion  Based on our activities, as described below, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the following 2022 GHG emissions data for the disclosures listed under ‘Scope’ above  are not fairly presented in the Reports, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria:    2022 (Total Oxy)   Scope 1 GHG Emissions:  17.60 million metric tonnes CO2e  ""
""Scope 2 GHG Emissions (location-based):  4.90 million metric tonnes CO2e   Total GHG Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 (location-based)):  22.50 million metric tonnes CO2e   Total Methane Emissions:  45.44 thousand metric tonnes CH4    2022 (Other Operations2)   Total GHG Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 (location-based)):  0.0032 million metric tonnes CO2e    By Business Unit   2022 (Oxy Oil & Gas)   Scope 1 GHG Emissions:  11.35 million metric tonnes CO2e   Scope 2 GHG Emissions (location-""
""based):  3.20 million metric tonnes CO2e   Total GHG Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 (location-based)):  14.55 million metric tonnes CO2e   Total Methane Emissions:  45.22 thousand metric tonnes CH4   Total Scope 3 GHG Emissions3 (operated basis):  217 million metric tonnes CO2e   Total Scope 3 GHG Emissions3 (equity basis):  175 million metric tonnes CO2e    2022 (OxyChem)   Scope 1 GHG Emissions:  6.25 million metric tonnes CO2e   Scope 2 GHG Emissions (location-based):  1.70 million""
""metric tonnes CO2e   Total GHG Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 (location-based)):  7.95 million metric tonnes CO2e   Total Methane Emissions:  0.22 thousand metric tonnes CH4        2 158 Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 APPENDIX V CONT. - 2022 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT  PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES Emphasis of matter  Without affecting our conclusion, which is not modified, we draw attention to the explanatory notes provided by Occidental in the""
""Reports relating to the assumptions applied to  calculate the Scope 3, Categories 9, 10, and 11 GHG emissions with respect to its oil and gas products.    Our assurance activities    Considering the level of assurance and our assessment of the risk of material misstatement of the Selected Information, a multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance  specialists performed a range of procedures that included, but was not restricted to, the following:      Evaluating the appropriateness""
""the selected disclosures which included testing the  completeness and mathematical accuracy of conversions and calculations, and consolidation in line with the stated reporting boundary.    In-person visits to the following facilities and offices to interview relevant staff, discuss the reported 2022 facility-level data, and collect/review underlying documentary evidence:    Oxy Permian Plants – Salt Creek Field Gas and Wasson CO2 Recovery Plants, USA;     Oxy Chemical Corporation – Geismar""
""Plant, USA; and    Oxy Oman – Block 53 Mukhaizna field operations and the Muscat office, Sultanate of Oman;    Multiple discussions with key stakeholders, data owners and operational staff to review activity data sources, data acquisition methods including but not limited to meter  management, emission calculations, and internal and external data quality controls.     Desk-based review of a sample of 2022 source data for purchased electricity for selected facilities within the Permian Basin,""
""USA.    Confirming conversion and emission factors and assumptions used.     Reviewing the presentation of information relevant to the scope of our work in the Reports to ensure consistency with our findings.    The limitations of our engagement  The reliability of the assured information is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, calculating, or estimating the underlying information. It is  important to understand our assurance conclusions in this""
""(2022).   159 Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 APPENDIX V CONT. - 2022 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT  PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES   ERM CVS applies a Code of Conduct and related policies to ensure that its employees maintain integrity, objectivity, professional competence, and high ethical standards in their  work. Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work we undertake is objective, impartial and free from bias and conflict of""
""interest. Our certified  management system covers independence and ethical requirements that are at least as demanding as the relevant sections of the IESBA Code relating to assurance engagements.     ERM CVS has extensive experience in conducting assurance on environmental, social, ethical and health and safety information, systems, and processes, and provides no  consultancy related services to Oxy in any respect.         Beth Wyke  Head of Corporate Assurance Services   Malvern, PA    August""
""23, 2023    ERM Certification & Verification Services Incorporated  www.ermcvs.com  |  post@ermcvs.com  160 Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 APPENDIX V CONT. - 2022 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT  PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES   Independent Assurance Statement to Occidental Petroleum Corporation ERM Certification and Verification Services, Inc. (‘ERM CVS’) was engaged by Occidental Petroleum Corporation (‘Occidental’) to provide limited assurance in""
""relation to selected  greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions data set out below and presented in its Climate Report, Sustainability Report and annual summary of ESG performance indicators on  Occidental’s website (together the ‘Reports’) for the selected reporting periods.   Engagement summary  Scope of our  assurance  engagement  Whether the data associated with Occidental’s operations for the following selected indicators are fairly presented in the Reports, in all material respects,  in accordance""
""with the reporting criteria:    2021  •  Scope 1 GHG Emissions [million metric tonnes CO2e]  •  Scope 2 GHG Emissions (location-based) [million metric tonnes CO2e]  •  Total GHG Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 (location-based)) [million metric tonnes CO2e]  •  Total Methane Emissions [thousand metric tonnes CH4]  •  Total Scope 3 GHG Emissions1, covering the following organizational boundaries [million metric tonnes CO2e]:  •  Operated basis;  •  Operated-equity basis; and  •  Equity basis.  2020""
""•  Total GHG Emissions (combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 (location-based)) [metric tonnes CO2e]2  2019  •  Total GHG Emissions (combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 (location-based)) [metric tonnes CO2e]2  Reporting periods  • January 1, 2021 – December 31, 2021   • January 1, 2020 – December 31, 2020  • January 1, 2019 – December 31, 2019   Reporting criteria  • American Petroleum Institute Compendium of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Methodologies for the Oil and Natural Gas Industry, 2009 & 2021  • IPCC""
""Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, 2006  • US EPA Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule  • WBCSD/WRI GHG Protocol (2004, as updated January 2015) for the Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG Emissions  Assurance standard  International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised).  Assurance level  Limited assurance.  Respective  responsibilities  Occidental is responsible for preparing the Reports and for the collection and presentation of the information within it.   ERM CVS’""
""responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and exercising our professional  judgement.    1 ERM CVS assured total Scope 3 GHG emissions for oil and gas products for the following categories only: Category 9: Downstream Transportation and Distribution, Category 10: Processing of Sold Products, and Category 11: Use of Sold  Products.  2 ERM CVS were engaged to re-assure 2019 and 2020 Total GHG emissions (combined Scope 1 and Scope 2""
""(location-based)) due to enhanced emissions estimations applied by Occidental during 2022 for the calculation of 2019 and 2020  Total GHG emissions (combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 (location-based)). Please note that ERM CVS reviewed supporting documentation for the 2019 and 2020 scope during the 2020 limited assurance engagement, which was conducted during  2021.  2021 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT 161 Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 APPENDIX VI  PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT""
""THIS REPORT APPENDICES Our conclusions  Based on our activities, as described below, nothing has come to our attention to  indicate that the following GHG emissions data associated with Occidental’s  operations are not fairly presented, in all material respects, with the reporting criteria:     2021 (Total Occidental)  • Scope 1 GHG Emissions:  18.50 million metric tonnes CO2e  • Scope 2 GHG Emissions (location-based):  4.84 million metric tonnes CO2e  • Total GHG Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2""
""(location-based)):  23.34 million metric tonnes CO2e  2020 (Total Occidental)  • Total GHG Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2  (location-based)):  23.83 million metric tonnes CO2e  2019 (Total Occidental)  • Total GHG Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2  (location-based)):  27.53 million metric tonnes CO2e  2021 (Other Operations3)  • Total GHG Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2  (location-based)):  0.01 million metric tonnes CO2e  By Business Unit   2021 (Occidental Oil & Gas)  • Scope 1 GHG Emissions:""
""13.08 million metric tonnes CO2e  • Scope 2 GHG Emissions (location-based):  3.17 million metric tonnes CO2e  • Total GHG Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2  (location-based)):  16.25 million metric tonnes CO2e  • Total Methane Emissions:  76.21 thousand metric tonnes CH4  • Total Scope 3 GHG Emissions4 (operated basis):  212 million metric tonnes CO2e  • Total Scope 3 GHG Emissions4 (operated-equity):  153 million metric tonnes CO2e  • Total Scope 3 GHG Emissions4 (equity basis):  176 million""
""metric tonnes CO2e    2021 (OxyChem)  • Scope 1 GHG Emissions:  5.41 million metric tonnes CO2e  • Scope 2 GHG Emissions (location-based):  1.67 million metric tonnes CO2e  • Total GHG Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2  (location-based)):  7.08 million metric tonnes CO2e  • Total Methane Emissions:  0.19 thousand metric tonnes CH4  2020 (Occidental Oil & Gas)  • Total GHG Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2  (location-based)):  16.07 million metric tonnes CO2e   2020 (OxyChem)  • Total GHG Emissions""
""(Scope 1 and Scope 2  (location-based)):  7.74 million metric tonnes CO2e   2019 (Occidental Oil & Gas)  • Total GHG Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2  (location-based)):   19.42 million metric tonnes CO2e  2019 (OxyChem)  • Total GHG Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2  (location-based)):   8.10 million metric tonnes CO2e                        3 Other Operations include company-operated aviation and property management.  4 ERM CVS assured total Scope 3 GHG emissions for oil and gas products for the""
""following categories only: Category  9: Downstream Transportation and Distribution, Category 10: Processing of Sold Products, and Category 11: Use of  Sold Products.                  162 Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 APPENDIX VI CONT. - 2021 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT  PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES Emphasis of matter  Without affecting our conclusion, which is not modified, we draw attention to the explanatory  notes provided by Occidental in the""
""Reports relating to the assumptions applied to calculate  the Scope 3, Categories 9, 10, and 11 GHG emissions with respect to its oil and gas  products.  Our assurance activities    A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists performed a range of  assurance procedures which varied across the disclosures covered by our assurance  engagement, as follows:    •  Virtual and in-person interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the  data management systems and""
""Occidental Oman – Safah operations in Block 9 and the Muscat office, Sultanate  of Oman;  •  Desk-based review of a sample of 2021 source data for purchased electricity for  selected facilities within the Permian Basin, USA;  •  Desk-based review of a sample of 2021 source data for Other Operations associated  with company-operated aviation and property management;  •  Discuss process and calculation changes of 2019 and 2020 data with Occidental’s  corporate reporting team;  •  An analytical""
""provide no consultancy related services to Occidental Petroleum  Corporation in any respect.         Beth Wyke  Partner, Head of Corporate Assurance, Malvern, PA   October 17th, 2022  ERM Certification and Verification Services, Inc.  www.ermcvs.com | post@ermcvs.com  163 Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 APPENDIX VI CONT. - 2021 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT  164 Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 APPENDIX VII PILLAR THEME TITLE DISCLOSURE OXY REFERENCE(S) Principles of Governance Governing purpose""
""Setting purpose The company’s stated purpose, as the expression of the means by which a business proposes solutions to economic, environmental, and social issues.  Corporate purpose should create value for all stakeholders, including shareholders 2024 Proxy page 4 Quality of governing body Governance body composition Composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: competencies relating to economic, environmental, and social topics; executive  or non-executive; independence;""
""response to those changes. These opportunities and risks should integrate material economic, environmental, and social issues, including climate  change and data stewardship 2023 Annual Report 10-K pages 10-25 WEF STAKEHOLDER CAPITALISM METRICS INDEX  This table presents Oxy’s activities within the context of the WEF Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics (Core Metrics). References in this index are reported or discussed further in the 2023 Annual Report, 2024 Proxy Statement, Oxy 2019-2023 ESG Data""
""Summary, 2023 Climate Report, 2024 Sustainability Report and on oxy.com/sustainability.    165 Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 APPENDIX VII CONT. - WEF STAKELHOLDER CAPITALISM METRICS INDEX PILLAR THEME TITLE DISCLOSURE OXY REFERENCE(S) People Dignity and equality Diversity and inclusion (%) Percentage of employees per employee category, per age group, gender and other indicators of diversity (e.g. ethnicity) 2019-2023 ESG Data Summary  2022 EEO-1 Report Pay equality Ratio of the basic salary and""
""consequence work-related injuries (excluding fatalities); recordable  work-related injuries, main types of work-related injury; and the number of hours worked GRI:2018 403 – 6 (a) 2019-2023 ESG Data Summary An explanation of how the organization facilitates workers’ access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services and the scope of access  provided for employees and workers 2024 Sustainability Report pages 42-43, 47 2023 Annual Report 10-K pages 4-5 Skills for the future Training""
""provided (#) Average hours of training per person that the organization’s employees have undertaken during the reporting period, by gender and employee  category (total number of trainings provided to employees divided by the number of employees) 2019-2023 ESG Data Summary Average training and development expenditure per full time employee Not reported Effectiveness of the training and development through increased revenue, productivity gains, employee engagement and/or internal hire rates 2024""
""Sustainability Report pages 40-41, 44-46 Planet Climate change Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions For all relevant greenhouse gases (e.g. carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, F-gases etc.), report in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent  (tCO2e) GHG Protocol Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 2019-2023 ESG Data Summary Estimate and report material upstream and downstream (GHG Protocol Scope 3) emissions where appropriate 2019-2023 ESG Data Summary TCFD implementation Fully implement the""
""recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). If necessary, disclose a timeline of at  most three years for full implementation. Disclose whether you have set, or have committed to set, GHG emissions targets that are in line with the  goals of the Paris Agreement – to limit global warming to well-below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and pursue efforts to limit warming to 1.5°C –  and to achieve net-zero emissions before 2050 2023 Climate Report 2023 CDP""
""Climate Change Questionnaire Nature loss Land use and ecological sensitivity Report the number and area (in hectares) of sites owned, leased or managed in or adjacent to protected areas and/or key biodiversity areas (KBA) 2023 CDP Climate Change Questionnaire Fresh water availability Water consumption and withdrawal in  water-stressed areas Report for operations where material, mega litres of water withdrawn, mega litres of water consumed and the percentage of each in regions with  high or""
""extremely high baseline water stress according to WRI Aqueduct water risk atlas tool 2023 CDP Water Security Questionnaire Estimate and report the same information for the full value chain (upstream and downstream) where appropriate 2023 CDP Water Security Questionnaire  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 166 APPENDIX VII CONT. - WEF STAKELHOLDER CAPITALISM METRICS INDEX PILLAR THEME TITLE DISCLOSURE OXY REFERENCE(S) Prosperity Employment and wealth generation Absolute number and rate of employment""
""Total number and rate of new employee hires during the reporting period, by age group, gender, other indicators of diversity and region 2024 Sustainability Report pages 37, 39 2019-2023 ESG Data Summary Total number and rate of employee turnover during the reporting period, by age group, gender, other indicators of diversity and region 2019-2023 ESG Data Summary Economic Contribution Direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D) – on an accrual basis, covering the basic components for""
""the company and government 2023 Annual Report 10-K Revenue Operating costs Employee wages and benefits Payments to providers of capital Payments to government Community investment 2019-2023 ESG Data Summary Financial assistance received from the government - Total monetary value of financial assistance received by the organization from any government  during the reporting period Not Reported Financial investment contribution disclosure  Total capital expenditures (CapEx) – Depreciation supported""
""taxes, non-creditable VAT and other sales taxes, employer-paid  payroll taxes and other taxes that constitute costs to the company, by category of taxes  2019-2023 ESG Data Summary  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 167 SASB INDEX This table presents Oxy’s activities within the context of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Oil & Gas - Exploration & Production Industry Standard (version 2023-12) and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Chemicals Industry Standard""
""(version 2023-12). Disclosures that are common across  the relevant sectors are represented by their respective sectoral codes. References in this index are reported or discussed further in the 2023 Annual Report, Oxy 2019-2023 ESG Data Summary, 2023 Climate Report, 2024 Sustainability Report and on oxy.com/sustainability. Topic Metric Code Oxy Reference(s) Greenhouse Gas Emissions Gross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage methane, percentage covered under emissions-limiting regulations EM-""
""EP-110a.1 RT-CH-110a.1 2019-2023 ESG Data Summary Amount of gross global Scope 1 emissions from: (1) flared hydrocarbons, (2) other combustion, (3) process emissions, (4) other vented emissions and (5) fugitive emissions EM-EP-110a.2 2019-2023 ESG Data Summary Discussion of long- and short-term strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions reduction targets, and an analysis of performance against those targets EM-EP-110a.3 RT-CH-110a.2 2023 Climate Report Air Quality Air emissions of""
""the following pollutants: (1) NOx (excluding N2O), (2) SOx, (3) volatile organic compounds (VOCs), and (4) particulate matter (PM10) EM-EP-120a.1 2019-2023 ESG Data Summary Air emissions of the following pollutants: (1) NOX (excluding N2O), (2) SOX, (3) volatile organic compounds (VOCs), and (4) hazardous air pollutants (HAPs)  RT-CH-120a.1 Water Management (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed; percentage of each in regions with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress EM-""
""EP-140a.1 RT-CH-140a.1 2019-2023 ESG Data Summary 2023 CDP Water Security Volume of produced water and flowback generated; percentage (1) discharged, (2) injected, (3) recycled; hydrocarbon content in discharged water EM-EP-140a.2  2019-2023 ESG Data Summary 2023 CDP Water Security Hydrocarbon content in  discharged water - Not reported Percentage of hydraulically fractured wells for which there is public disclosure of all fracturing fluid chemicals used EM-EP-140a.3 2019-2023 ESG Data Summary""
""Percentage of hydraulic fracturing sites where ground or surface water quality deteriorated compared to a baseline EM-EP-140a.4 2019-2023 ESG Data Summary Number of incidents of non-compliance associated with water quality permits, standards and regulations RT-CH-140a.2 2023 CDP Water Security Description of water management risks and discussion of strategies and practices to mitigate those risks RT-CH-140a.3 2024 Sustainability Report  pages 86-93 Biodiversity Impacts Description of""
""environmental management policies and practices for active sites EM-EP-160a.1 2024 Sustainability Report  pages 70, 100-107 (1) Number and (2) aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills, (3) volume in Arctic, (4) volume impacting shorelines with ESI rankings 8-10, and (5) volume recovered EM-EP-160a.2 (1),  (2), (5) 2019-2023 ESG  Data Summary (3) Not applicable  (4) Not reported Percentage of (1) proved and (2) probable reserves in or near sites with protected conservation status or endangered""
""species habitat EM-EP-160a.3 Not reported Biodiversity Impacts Description of environmental management policies and practices for active sites EM-EP-160a.1 Oxy Sustainability Report 2024  pages 70, 99-102 (1) Number and (2) aggregate volume of hydrocarbon spills, (3) volume in Arctic, (4) volume impacting shorelines with ESI rankings 8-10, and (5) volume recovered EM-EP-160a.2 (1),  (2), (5) 2019-2023 ESG  Data Summary (3)  Not applicable (4) Not reported Percentage of (1) proved and (2)""
""reported Workforce Health & Safety (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR), (2) fatality rate, (3) near miss frequency rate (NMFR), and (4) average hours of health, safety, and emergency response training for  (a) direct employees and (b) contract employees EM-EP-320a.1  2019-2023 ESG Data Summary Discussion of management systems used to integrate a culture of safety throughout the exploration and production lifecycle EM-EP-320a.2 2024 Sustainability Report  pages 31-36, 54-63 (1) Total""
""recordable incident rate (TRIR) and (2) fatality rate for (a) direct employees and (b) contract employees RT-CH-320a.1  2019-2023 ESG Data Summary Description of efforts to assess, monitor, and reduce exposure of employees and contract workers to long-term (chronic) health risks RT-CH-320a.2 2024 Sustainability Report  pages 31-36, 43, 47, 54-69 Reserves Valuation & Capital Expenditures Sensitivity of hydrocarbon reserve levels to future price projection scenarios that account for a price on""
""carbon emissions EM-EP-420a.1  2023 Climate Report  Estimated carbon dioxide emissions embedded in proved hydrocarbon reserves EM-EP-420a.2 2023 Climate Report  Amount invested in renewable energy, revenue generated by renewable energy sales EM-EP-420a.3 Not reported Discussion of how price and demand for hydrocarbons or climate regulation influence the capital expenditure strategy for exploration, acquisition and development of assets EM-EP-420a.4  2023 Climate Report  Business Ethics &""
""environmental and social factors affecting the industry EM-EP-530a.1 Oxy Climate Advocacy and  Engagement Oxy Climate Policy Positions 2024 Sustainability Report  pages 27-30 Critical Incident Risk Management Process Safety Event (PSE) rates for Loss of Primary Containment (LOPC) of greater consequence (Tier 1) EM-EP-540a.1 2019-2023 ESG Data Summary Description of management systems used to identify and mitigate catastrophic and tail-end risks EM-EP-540a.2 2024 Sustainability Report pages 8,""
""19-20, 22-23, 31-33,  62-63 2023 Annual Report 10-K pages  10-25  Activity Metric Production of: (1) oil, (2) natural gas, (3) synthetic oil, and (4) synthetic gas EM-EP-000.A 2019-2023 ESG Data Summary Number of offshore sites EM-EP-000.B 2019-2023 ESG Data Summary Number of terrestrial sites EM-EP-000.C 2019-2023 ESG Data Summary APPENDIX VIII CONT. - SASB INDEX  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 169 169 APPENDIX VIII CONT. - SASB INDEX Topic Metric Code Oxy Reference(s) Energy Management (1)""
""Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid electricity, (3) percentage renewable and (4) total self-generated energy RT-CH-130a.1 2019-2023 ESG Data Summary  Hazardous Waste Management (1) Amount of hazardous waste generated, (2) percentage recycled RT-CH-150a.1 2019-2023 ESG Data Summary Product Design for Use-phase Efficiency Revenue from products designed for use-phase resource efficiency RT-CH-410a.1 Not reported Safety & Environmental Stewardship of  Chemicals (1) Percentage of products""
""that contain Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) Category 1 and 2 Health and Environmental Hazardous Substances, (2) percentage of such products that have undergone a hazard assessment RT-CH-410b.1 Not reported Discussion of strategy to (1) manage chemicals of concern and (2) develop alternatives with reduced human and/or environmental impact RT-CH-410b.2 2024 Sustainability Report  page 66-67, 69, 98-99, 133-134 Genetically Modified Organisms Percentage""
""of products by revenue that contain genetically modified organisms (GMOs) RT-CH-410c.1 Zero Operational Safety, Emergency  Preparedness & Response Process Safety Incidents Count (PSIC), Process Safety Total Incident Rate (PSTIR), and Process Safety Incident Severity Rate (PSISR) RT-CH-540a.1 2019-2023 ESG Data Summary Number of transport incidents RT-CH-540a.2  2019-2023 ESG Data Summary 2024 Sustainability Report  pages 66-67 Activity Metric Production of: (1) oil, (2) natural gas, (3)""
""synthetic oil, and (4) synthetic gas  EM-EP-000.A   2019-2023 ESG Data Summary Number of offshore sites EM-EP-000.B Number of terrestrial sites EM-EP-000.C Production by reportable segment RT-CH-000.A  Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES A   ACC: American Chemistry Council. Trade association that represents all aspects of  America’s chemical industry.  ACI: Annual Cash Incentive.  AI: Artificial intelligence. API: American""
""Petroleum Institute. Trade association that represents all aspects of  America’s oil and natural gas industry.  B   Bbl: Barrel of oil. 1 bbl = 42 gallon, 1 mmbbl = 1,000,000 bbl.  BBS: Behavior-Based Safety. BOE: Barrel of oil equivalent is the energy released by burning one barrel of oil, and  is used to express the energy contained in other hydrocarbon streams in barrels. For  example, Oxy uses a conversion of 6,000 cubic feet of natural gas = 1 BOE. 1 mmBOE =  1,000,000 BOE.  C   CAP:""
""Community Advisory Panel. CapEx: Capital Expenditures. Funds used by a company to acquire or upgrade assets  such as property, buildings or equipment with the purpose of creating future benefits.  CCA and CCAA: A Candidate Conservation Agreement (CCA) and Candidate  Conservation Agreement with Assurances (CCAA). Both the CCAA and the CCA are  formal agreements between the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and one or more parties  to address the conservation needs of at-risk species before they""
""become listed  as endangered or threatened. Federal and state agencies, tribes and landowners  voluntarily commit to enhance, restore or maintain habitat to benefit the species with  the goal that listing may become unnecessary. A CCAA differs from a CCA in that the  agreement can only be made with state or private property owners.   CCUS: Carbon capture, utilization and storage.  CDP: A non-profit organization that manages a system for disclosing environmental  impacts. Formerly known as the""
""Carbon Disclosure Project www.cdp.net.  CDR: Carbon dioxide removal credit.  CH4: Methane or natural gas.  CHP: Combined Heat and Power. A power plant that, while generating electricity via a  gas turbine, uses surplus heat to make steam to generate additional electricity via a  steam turbine. Enhances the efficiency of the plant. CO: Carbon monoxide.  CO2: Carbon dioxide. CO2e: Carbon dioxide equivalent. Obtained by converting a mixture of GHGs to a  single number based on the global warming""
""potential of each individual GHG in the  mixture.  CO2 EOR: Carbon dioxide enhanced oil recovery. Oxy is an industry leader in applying  CO2 EOR, which can increase ultimate oil recovery by 10 to 25% in the fields where it  is employed. Condensate: Mixture of hydrocarbons that are in a gaseous state under reservoir  conditions and become liquid as the temperature and pressure are reduced.  D   DAC: Direct Air Capture. DAC pulls CO2 directly from the atmosphere and delivers it in  a pure,""
""compressed form so it can be used in processes like enhanced oil recovery to  create low-carbon fuels and products or permanent carbon removal through carbon  sequestration. DAC technology allows for collection of atmospheric CO2, making it a  key solution for addressing difficult to capture, and historical, emissions.  Delaware Basin: The Delaware Basin, the western sub-basin of the Permian Basin, is  a geologic depositional and structural basin in West Texas and southern New Mexico  that""
""contains large oil fields.  DIB: Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging. DJ Basin: Denver-Julesburg Basin in the U.S. Rockies.  E   EH&S Committee: Environmental, Health and Safety Committee of the   Board of Directors.  EOR: Enhanced Oil Recovery, a technique to increase oil production through the  injection of water, steam or carbon dioxide.  EPA: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.  EP&R: Emergency preparedness and response.  ERG: Employee Resource Group.  ERM: Enterprise Risk Management.  ESG:""
""Environmental, social and corporate governance.  F      FEED: Front-End Engineering and Design.  FracFocus®: The U.S. hydraulic fracturing chemical disclosure registry. G   Geothermal brine: A concentrated saline solution pumped to the surface by a  geothermal power plant from which heat and stream are extracted.   GFMR: Word Bank’s Global Flaring and Methane Reduction Partnership. GHG: Greenhouse gases—primarily comprised of carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous  oxide, hydrofluorocarbons,""
""perfluorocarbons, sulfur hexafluoride, and nitrogen  trifluoride.  GHG Protocol: A guidance document issued in 2015 by the World Resources Institute  and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development to aid companies and  other organizations in preparing a GHG emissions inventory.  GoM: Gulf of Mexico.  GRI: Global Reporting Initiative, a non-profit organization that has developed  sustainability reporting standards. H   HAP: Hazardous Air Pollutant. HSE: Health, Safety and Environment.""
""HSE&S: Health, Safety, Environmental and Sustainability. I   ICS: Industrial Control System. ICV: In-country value. IEA: International Energy Agency.  IOGP: The International Association of Oil and Gas Producers.  Ipieca: A global oil and gas industry association focused on environmental and social  matters. Formerly known as the International Petroleum Industry Environmental  Conservation Association.  ISO: International Organization for Standardization. IUCN: International Union for""
""Conservation of Nature. L   LDAR: Leak detection and repair is a program that monitors oil, gas and chemical  equipment to identify and fix leaks to reduce air emissions.   M   MGP: Methane Guiding Principles partnership enables action in industry and  government to reduce methane emissions from the natural gas supply chain.  Midland Basin: The Midland Basin, the eastern sub-basin of the Permian Basin, is a  major oil and natural gas producing region located in West Texas.  Metric Ton or Tonne""
""(/mt): 1,000 kilograms (approximately 2,205 pounds).  MRV: Monitoring, Reporting and Verification Plan. Approved by the U.S. EPA.  MW: Megawatt. A measure of power generation or consumption capacity. One MW  equals 1,000 kilowatts (kW) or one million watts.  MWh: Megawatt-Hour. 1,000 times larger than the kilowatt-hour (kWh) and is used for  measuring the energy output of large power plants.  N   Net Zero: As defined by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, “net zero  emissions”""
""balances anthropogenic GHG emissions to the atmosphere with GHGs  taken out of the atmosphere. At Oxy, net zero means that we facilitate the reduction,  capture, removal and storage of at least the same quantity of GHGs that are emitted  directly from our operations (Scope 1), generated by others to create the power we  purchase to conduct our operations (Scope 2), and generated by customers and  consumers using the products we sell (Scope 3).  NGLs: Natural Gas Liquids. Liquid hydrocarbons that""
""are extracted and separated  from the natural gas stream. NGLs produced include ethane, propane, butane and  natural gasoline.  NGO: Non-governmental organization.  NGSI: Natural Gas Sustainability Initiative.  NIST: National Institute of Standards and Technology. NOx: Nitrogen oxides, criteria air pollutant. GLOSSARY Throughout this report, “Oxy,” “company,” “we” and “our” refer to Occidental Petroleum Corporation and/or one or more entities in which it owns a controlling interest.  170""
""APPENDIX IX  PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE INTRO ABOUT THIS REPORT APPENDICES O   OCS Blue: Operation Clean Sweep® (OCS) Blue is a product stewardship program of  the Plastics Industry Association (PLASTICS) and the American Chemistry Council  (ACC) dedicated to helping every plastic resin operation achieve zero plastic loss into  the environment.  OGCI: OGCI is a CEO-led initiative focused on accelerating action to a net-zero future  consistent with the Paris Agreement.  OGDC: Oil and Gas""
""Decarbonization Charter is one of the landmark initiatives  launched at COP28 and is a global industry effort dedicated to speeding up climate  action and achieving high-scale impact across the oil and gas sector.  OGMP 2.0: Oil and Gas Methane Partnership 2.0 is the United Nations Environment  Programme’s flagship oil and gas reporting and mitigation program with a focus on a  comprehensive, measurement-based reporting framework for the oil and gas industry  that improves the accuracy and""
""transparency of methane emissions reporting.  Operating Management System (OMS): Oxy’s OMS is based on operational  excellence standards aligned with the API’s Energy Excellence® program, the ACC’s  Responsible Care® program, the Ipieca Principles, the World Economic Forum’s (WEF)  Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics, and the Operating Management System Framework  of the IOGP. OMS provides a consistent and rigorous methodology to help the  company identify, assess and address HSE, social and""
""operational risks across our  business operations.  OSHA: U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration. P   P&A: Plug and abandonment operations.  Paris Agreement: An international treaty on climate change adopted by 196 Parties  at the UN Climate Change Conference (COP21) in Paris, France in December 2015  and administered under the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate  Change. The Paris Agreement’s overarching goals are to hold “the increase in the  global average""
""temperature to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels” and pursue  efforts “to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels.”  PM: Particulate matter (PM10, PM2.5): A criteria air pollutant that comprises mixture of  solid particles and liquid droplets found in the air and typically expressed by particle  size in micrometers.  Permian Basin: A hydrocarbon-bearing sedimentary basin largely contained in the  western part of Texas and the southeastern part of New Mexico.""
""Powder River Basin:  The Powder River Basin is a geologic structural basin in  southeast Montana and northeast Wyoming.  PPE: personal protective equipment.  Produced water: Water that is a byproduct of extracting oil and natural gas.  PSM: Process safety management. PV: Photovoltaic technologies, more commonly known as solar panels, generate  power using devices that absorb energy from sunlight and convert it into electrical  energy through semiconducting materials.  PVC: Polyvinyl chloride. R""
""RCA: Root cause analysis.  S   SASB: Sustainability Accounting Standards Board. Now part of the International  Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) Foundation.  Scope 1 Emissions: As defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Scope 1 or direct  emissions are emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by the reporting  entity.  Scope 2 Emissions: As defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Scope 2 or indirect  emissions are emissions that are a consequence of the activities of the reporting""
""entity, but occur at sources owned or controlled by another entity such as the  generation of purchased electricity, steam or heat.  Scope 3 Emissions: As defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Scope 3 or other  indirect emissions are emissions from the reporting entity’s value chain, such as  from the transportation, processing or use of products sold by the reporting entity,  extraction and production of purchased materials and fuels, transport-related  activities not owned or controlled by""
""the reporting entity, electricity-related activities  (e.g., transmission and distribution losses) not covered in Scope 2, waste disposal,  etc.  SDGs: United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.  SDS: Safety Data Sheets.  SEC: U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  SEMP: Safety Engagement and Management Program.  SME: Small and medium-sized enterprises.  SOx: Sulfur oxides, a criteria air pollutant.  SPCC: Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure. SRT: Spill Reduction Team.  S&SE""
""Committee: Sustainability and Shareholder Engagement Committee of the  Board of Directors.  STEM: Science, Technology, Engineering and Math.  STEP: Strategic Technical Excellence Program. Stop Work Authority: The right, obligation, authority and responsibility of all  employees and contractors at an Oxy workplace to stop any work activity, without  repercussions, to prevent a health, safety or environmental incident.  T   TCFD: Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures.  TEP: The""
""Environmental Partnership is comprised of companies in the U.S. oil  and natural gas industry committed to continuously improving the industry’s  environmental performance. It includes companies of all sizes, including many of the  country’s major oil and natural gas producers.  TNFD: Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures.          TRIR: Total Recordable Injury Rate is a measure of recordable workplace injuries,  excluding recordable illnesses, of Oxy’s U.S. and international""
""employees and  contractors that applies OSHA definitions and guidance. The TRIR is the number of  OSHA recordable injuries per 200,000 work-hours, which equates to 100 full-time  workers in a year.  V   VOC: Volatile Organic Compounds.  VPP: Voluntary Protection Programs under federal and state OSHA Star programs.  VSC: Vinyl Sustainability Council.   W   WEF: World Economic Forum. The World Economic Forum is the International  Organization for Public-Private Cooperation. At the 2017 Annual""
""Meeting, CEOs from  the World Economic Forum International Business Council issued the “Compact for  Responsive and Responsible Leadership”, which states that “society is best served  by corporations that have aligned their goals to the long‑term goals of society,” and it  identifies the UN SDGs as the roadmap for that alignment. WHC: Wildlife Habitat Council.  Z   ZRF: Zero Routine Flaring. 171 Oxy Sustainability Report 2024 APPENDIX IX CONT. - GLOSSARY  PLANET PEOPLE PROSPERITY GOVERNANCE""
