""enable  the workforce of the future — a future that provides  both reliable and carbon-free electricity. Throughout  our respective tenures, we have had a close and trusted  partnership that will enable a seamless succession and  continued focus on advancing our company strategy  to the benefit of shareholders and customers, alike. Dear Shareholders: Chairman,  President and CEO  Jeff Guldner (right)  and his successor,  Ted Geisler,  President of APS  AN EVOLVING CUSTOMER BASE Our customer""
""to 2.5%  for both 2025 and the long term, as Arizona  continues to be a highly attractive destination  for both residents and businesses. Over the  next three years, we project an annual increase  in weather-normalized energy sales of 4% to  6%, with 3% to 5% contributed by growth from  large commercial and industrial customers, as  more companies choose Arizona and existing  customers continue to ramp up. As an example, construction continues in northwest  Phoenix on the massive Taiwan""
""32,000 new residential meters, the most since the  Great Recession. Continued adoption of electric  vehicles, smart appliances and smart thermostats,  as examples, will accelerate that growth even with  continued efficiency gains. From our inception in 1886, it has taken APS  nearly 140 years for our system to exceed 8,000  megawatts (MW) in peak customer demand. We  expect that number to grow to more than 13,000  MW over the next 14 years — an increase of 60%. To clarify, it is not growth for""
""the sake of growth we  are seeking. We are pursuing smart growth that can  help us develop a cleaner and more efficient energy  supply while ensuring reliability and keeping bills  as low as possible for customers. The result will  be a stronger Arizona for the long term.  AR 03 RELIABILITY FOR ALL SEASONS Reliability remains at the core of our service to  customers and drives our plans to provide a diverse  energy portfolio delivering power at reasonable  rates. The most important numbers that""
""measure  reliability place us solidly in the top quartile of  electric utilities across the nation. To continue  meeting the requirements of our state’s growth,  we expect to add 9,805 MW of renewable energy,  battery storage and natural gas to our system  between 2025 and 2028 — more than 90% of which  will be carbon free. Among our highlights: •      Power purchase agreements are expected to add  3,321 MW of solar power along with 168 MW from  the APS-owned Ironwood Solar Plant, currently""
""under construction in Yuma County. •      At the Agave Solar Plant in Maricopa County,  construction is under way on 150 MW of  battery energy storage that will deliver solar  energy to customers after sunset. •       We have secured power purchase agreements  for an anticipated 5,087 MW of battery energy  storage that grid operators can release during  evening hours when customer demand is greatest. •     In northern Arizona’s Navajo County, we have  secured 500 MW of additional wind power. •""
""And, we are expanding our existing Sundance  and Redhawk natural gas-fired power plants.  These additions are expected to deliver a  combined 487 MW, providing much-needed  energy during peak consumption hours. Just as  important, they will provide a critical complement  to the large quantities of solar and battery energy  storage we’re adding to our system. Once again, our employees adapted to the  demands of what proved to be the hottest summer  on record, avoiding any sustained major outages""
""across our service territory — and they did so  safely. In 2024, APS proudly achieved a milestone of  zero employee Serious Injury and Fatality incidents,   Pinnacle West Capital Corporation and 20th overall — Palo Verde Generating Station’s  three nuclear units exceeded 30 million MWh of  net generation. Importantly, the plant remains  a cornerstone of our aspirational goal to deliver  100% clean, carbon-free energy by 2050 and a  nearer-term target to achieve a resource mix that  is 65% clean""
""by 2030. Our efforts to expand wildfire prevention and  mitigation measures — and strengthen smart  grid resilience — remain essential as we have  witnessed the damage fires have inflicted in  neighboring states. We are committed to reducing  wildfire risk to customers and communities we  serve by leveraging innovative technologies to  increase situational awareness and help assess  fire probability and spread; conducting year-round  inspections and preventative maintenance; and  proactively""
""managing vegetation. We’ve also spent  about $828 million annually since 2022 on grid  resilience investments across our system. a testament to our rigorous safety focus and  the collective effort of our dedicated team of  employees. This commitment paid dividends  through 113 consecutive days above 100 degrees  in Phoenix in 2024, the longest stretch in Arizona  history. In turn, APS customers set a peak energy  demand record of 8,210 MW on Sunday, Aug. 4,  breaking the prior record of 8,162 MW""
""from 2023. Customers participating in our Cool Rewards  smart thermostat program once again stepped  up when needed, creating a “virtual power plant.”  In exchange for a bill credit, they collectively  conserved about 160 MW of energy through more  than 98,000 smart thermostats, successfully  relieving strain on the electric grid when energy  supplies were most needed. During this period — and the full year for that  matter — our generating fleet operated extremely  well and was available when""
""our customers critically  needed the power. For the 16th consecutive year —   AR 05 A FINANCIAL APPROACH DESIGNED FOR GROWTH In addition to our competitive power procurement  process, our participation in day-ahead and real- time power markets helps to keep costs as low  as possible for customers, along with efficient  operating and maintenance (O&M) procedures  targeted to reduce O&M costs per megawatt-hour  over time. Lean operations and efficiency will drive  cost management into the future.""
""year. STRONG DIVIDEND TRACK RECORD Annualized Dividends per Share $1 $0 $2 $3 $4 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 ~4.1%  CAGR* $2.50 $3.58 * Compound Annual Growth Rate  Pinnacle West Capital Corporation COMMITTED TO PEOPLE We remain committed to assist our communities  with energy support and heat-relief programs.  This past year, APS increased its energy support  and crisis bill assistance; maintained a summer  moratorium on disconnects for past-due bills;  assisted customers""
""Bauer Vice President and Treasurer, Pinnacle  West Capital Corporation and Arizona  Public Service Company Shirley A. Baum Senior Vice President, General Counsel,  Pinnacle West Capital Corporation and  Arizona Public Service Company Ann C. Becker Vice President, Sustainability,  Arizona Public Service Company Elizabeth A. Blankenship Vice President, Controller and Chief  Accounting Officer, Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation and Arizona Public  Service Company Brian W. Cole Vice President,""
""Financial Statements of APS.  Item 8 also includes  Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. i  GLOSSARY OF NAMES AND TECHNICAL TERMS AC Alternating Current ACC Arizona Corporation Commission ADEQ Arizona Department of Environmental Quality AFUDC Allowance for Funds Used During Construction ANPP Arizona Nuclear Power Project, also known as Palo Verde APS Arizona Public Service Company, a subsidiary of the Company ARO Asset retirement obligations ATM Program At-the-market equity""
""distribution program Base Fuel Rate The portion of APS’s retail base rates attributable to fuel and purchased power costs BCE Bright Canyon Energy Corporation CAISO California Independent System Operator Captive Captive Insurance Cell CCR Coal combustion residuals Cholla Cholla Power Plant DG Distributed Generation DOE United States Department of Energy DOI United States Department of the Interior DSM Demand side management EES Energy Efficiency Standard EGU Electric generating unit El Dorado El""
""Dorado Investment Company, a subsidiary of the Company EPA United States Environmental Protection Agency FERC United States Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Four Corners Four Corners Power Plant GHG Greenhouse gas GWh Gigawatt-hour, one billion watts per hour kV Kilovolt, one thousand volts kWh Kilowatt-hour, one thousand watts per hour LFCR Lost Fixed Cost Recovery Mechanism MW Megawatt, one million watts MWh Megawatt-hour, one million watts per hour Native Load Retail and wholesale sales""
""Pinnacle West Power, LLC, a subsidiary of the Company PPA Power Purchase Agreement PSA Power Supply Adjustor Redhawk Redhawk Power Plant RES Arizona Renewable Energy Standard and Tariff Salt River Project or SRP Salt River Project Agricultural Improvement and Power District SCE Southern California Edison Company Sundance Sundance Power Plant TCA Transmission cost adjustor TEAM Tax expense adjustor mechanism VIE Variable interest entity Table of Contents ii  FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS   This""
""data  security breaches, terrorist attack, physical attack, severe storms, or other catastrophic events, such as fires,  explosions, pandemic health events, or similar occurrences; • variations in demand for electricity, including those due to weather, seasonality (including large increases in  ambient temperatures), the general economy or social conditions, customer and sales growth (or decline),  the effects of energy conservation measures and DG, and technological advancements; • the""
""potential effects of climate change on our electric system, including as a result of weather extremes,  such as prolonged drought and high temperature variations in the area where APS conducts its business; • power plant and transmission system performance and outages; • competition in retail and wholesale power markets; • regulatory and judicial decisions, developments, and proceedings; • new legislation, ballot initiatives, and regulation or interpretations of existing legislation or""
""regulations,  including those relating to environmental requirements, regulatory and energy policy, nuclear plant  operations, and potential deregulation of retail electric markets; • fuel and water supply availability; • our ability to achieve timely and adequate rate recovery of our costs through our rates and adjustor recovery  mechanisms, including returns on and of debt and equity capital investment; • the ability of APS to meet renewable energy and energy efficiency mandates and recover""
""related costs; • the ability of APS to achieve its clean energy goals (including a goal by 2050 of 100% clean, carbon-free  electricity) and, if these goals are achieved, the impact of such achievement on APS, its customers, and its  business, financial condition, and results of operations; • risks inherent in the operation of nuclear facilities, including spent fuel disposal uncertainty; • the development of new technologies which may affect electric sales or delivery, including as a result of""
""delays in the development and application of new technologies; • the cost of debt, including increased cost as a result of rising interest rates, and equity capital and our ability  to access capital markets when required; • environmental, economic, and other concerns surrounding coal-fired generation, including regulation of  GHG; • volatile fuel and purchased power costs; • the investment performance of the assets of our nuclear decommissioning trust, captive insurance cell,  pension, and""
""generation and associated transmission  facilities in our region; • the willingness or ability of counterparties, power plant participants, and power plant landowners to meet  contractual or other obligations or extend the rights for continued power plant operations; and • restrictions on dividends or other provisions in our credit agreements and ACC orders. These and other factors are discussed in the Risk Factors described in Item 1A of this report, and in  Item 7 — “Management’s Discussion""
""corporation, and PNW Power,  a Delaware limited liability company.  BCE was a subsidiary of Pinnacle West, but was sold in January  2024.  Additional information related to these subsidiaries is provided later in this report.   Our reportable business segment is our regulated electricity segment, which consists of traditional  regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses (primarily electric service to Native Load customers)  and related activities, and includes electricity generation,""
""transmission, and distribution.  Our reportable  business segment activities are conducted primarily through our wholly-owned subsidiary, APS.    BUSINESS OF ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY   APS currently provides electric service to approximately 1.4 million customers.  We own or lease  6,540 MW of regulated generation capacity and we hold a mix of both long-term and short-term purchased  power agreements for additional capacity.  During 2024, no single purchaser or user of energy accounted""
""for more than 1.4% of our electric revenues. Table of Contents 3   The following map shows APS’s retail service territory, including the locations of its generating  facilities and principal transmission lines. Table of Contents 4  Energy Sources and Resource Planning  To serve its customers, APS obtains power through its various generation stations and through  purchased power agreements.  Resource planning is an important function necessary to meet Arizona’s  future energy needs.  APS’s""
""sources of energy by type used to supply energy to Native Load customers  during 2024 were approximately as follows: Nuclear: 21% Gas: 24% Coal: 14% Utility Scale Renewables*: 12% Customer-Sited Renewables: 7% Non-Clean Purchased Power: 8% Demand Side Management: 14% *Utility Scale Renewables include energy from biogas, biomass, geothermal, solar, and wind.  The share of APS’s energy supply being derived from clean resources was approximately 54% in  2024, which includes energy from nuclear,""
""renewables and DSM.   Clean Energy Focus Initiatives In response to climate change, APS has undertaken a number of initiatives to reduce carbon,  including renewable energy procurement and development, and promotion of programs and rates that  promote energy conservation, renewable energy use, and energy efficiency.  See “Energy Sources and  Resource Planning — Current and Future Resources” below for details of these plans and initiatives.  APS  currently has a diverse portfolio of renewable""
""resources, including biogas, biomass, geothermal, solar, and  wind.  In addition, in January 2020, APS announced its Clean Energy Commitment, a three-pronged  approach aimed at ultimately eliminating carbon-emitting resources from its electric generation resource  portfolio.  Table of Contents 5  APS’s Clean Energy Commitment consists of three parts:  • A 2050 goal to provide 100% clean, carbon-free electricity; • A 2030 target to achieve a resource mix that is 65% clean energy, with 45% of the""
""generation  portfolio coming from renewable energy; and • A plan to exit from coal-fired generation by 2031. Among other strategies, APS intends to achieve these goals through various methods such as  relying on Palo Verde, one of the nation’s largest producers of carbon-free energy; increasing clean energy  resources, including renewables; developing energy storage; exiting from coal-generated electricity;  managing demand with a modern interactive grid; promoting customer technology and energy""
""efficiency;  and optimizing regional resources.  Management takes into consideration climate change and other  environmental risks in its strategy development, business planning, and enterprise risk management  processes.  See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of  Operations” for additional information about APS’s Clean Energy Commitment.  Over this same period of time, APS also intends to harden its infrastructure in order to improve  climate""
""resiliency, which involves system and operational improvements aimed at reducing the impact of  extreme weather events and other climate-related disruptions upon APS’s operations.  Among other  resiliency strategies, APS anticipates increasing investments in a modern and more flexible electricity grid  with advanced distribution technologies.  APS plans to continue its forest management programs aimed at  reducing wildfires, as those risks become compounded by shorter, drier winters and longer,""
""hotter summers  as a result of climate change. APS prepares an annual inventory of GHG emissions from its operations.  For APS’s operations  involving fossil-fuel electricity generation and electricity transmission and distribution, APS’s annual GHG  inventory is reported to the EPA under the EPA GHG Reporting Program.  In addition to reporting to the  EPA, we publicly report Scope 1 and 2, as well as a limited number of Scope 3, GHG emissions.  This data  is then communicated to the public in""
""Pinnacle West’s annual Corporate Responsibility Report as  performance data and in CDP Reports, which are available on our website (www.pinnaclewest.com/ corporate-responsibility).  The reports provide information related to the Company and its approach to  sustainability and its workplace and environmental performance.  The information on Pinnacle West’s  website, including Corporate Responsibility Reports and CDP Reports, is not incorporated by reference  into or otherwise a part of this""
""report.  Generation Facilities   APS has ownership interests in or leases the nuclear, gas, oil, coal, and solar generating facilities as  well as energy storage facilities described below.  For additional information regarding these facilities, see  Item 2.   Nuclear Palo Verde Generating Station — Palo Verde is a 3-unit nuclear power plant located approximately  50 miles west of Phoenix, Arizona.  APS operates the plant and owns 29.1% of Palo Verde Units 1 and 3  and approximately 17% of Unit""
""Operating Licenses — Operation of each of the three Palo Verde Units requires an  operating license from the NRC.  The NRC issued full power operating licenses for Unit 1 in June 1985,  Unit 2 in April 1986, and Unit 3 in November 1987, and issued renewed operating licenses for each of the  three units in April 2011, which extended the licenses for Units 1, 2, and 3 to June 2045, April 2046, and  November 2047, respectively.   Palo Verde Fuel Cycle — The participant owners of Palo Verde are""
""The Palo Verde participants have contracted for 100% of Palo Verde’s requirements for uranium  concentrates through 2028 and 52% through 2029; 100% of Palo Verde’s requirements for conversion  services through 2030 and 32% through 2031; 100% of Palo Verde’s requirements for enrichment services  through 2028; and 100% of Palo Verde’s requirements for fuel fabrication through 2027 for Unit 2 and  Unit 1 and 2028 for Unit 3. Spent Nuclear Fuel and Waste Disposal — The Nuclear Waste Policy Act of""
""1982 (“NWPA”)  required the DOE to begin to accept, transport, and dispose of spent nuclear fuel and high-level waste  generated by the nation’s nuclear power plants by 1998.  The DOE’s obligations are reflected in a contract  for Disposal of Spent Nuclear Fuel and/or High-Level Radioactive Waste (the “Standard Contract”) with  each nuclear power plant.  The DOE failed to begin accepting spent nuclear fuel by 1998.  The DOE had  planned to meet its NWPA and Standard Contract disposal obligations""
""by designing, licensing,  constructing, and operating a permanent geologic repository at Yucca Mountain, Nevada.  In June 2008,  the DOE submitted its Yucca Mountain construction authorization application to the NRC, but in  March 2010, the DOE filed a motion to dismiss with prejudice the Yucca Mountain construction  authorization application.  Several legal proceedings followed challenging DOE’s withdrawal of its Yucca  Mountain construction authorization application and the NRC’s cessation of""
""Confidence and Continued Storage — On June 8, 2012, the D.C. Circuit issued its decision  on a challenge by several states and environmental groups of the NRC’s rulemaking regarding temporary  storage and permanent disposal of high-level nuclear waste and spent nuclear fuel.  The petitioners had  challenged the NRC’s 2010 update to the agency’s waste confidence decision and temporary storage  rule (“Waste Confidence Decision”).  The D.C. Circuit found that the NRC’s evaluation of the""
""environmental risks from spent nuclear fuel was deficient, and therefore remanded the Waste Confidence  Decision update for further action consistent with National Environmental Policy Act.  In September 2013,  the NRC issued its draft Generic Environmental Impact Statement (“GEIS”) to support an updated Waste  Confidence Decision.  On August 26, 2014, the NRC approved a final rule on the environmental effects of  continued storage of spent nuclear fuel.  Renamed as the Continued Storage Rule,""
""the NRC’s decision  adopted the findings of the GEIS regarding the environmental impacts of storing spent fuel at any reactor  site after the reactor’s licensed period of operations.  As a result, those generic impacts do not need to be  re-analyzed in the environmental reviews for individual licenses.  The final Continued Storage Rule was  subject to continuing legal challenges before the NRC and the Court of Appeals.  In June 2016, the D.C.  Table of Contents 8  Circuit issued its final""
""decision, rejecting all remaining legal challenges to the Continued Storage Rule.  On  August 8, 2016, the D.C. Circuit denied a petition for rehearing. Palo Verde has sufficient capacity at its on-site independent spent fuel storage installation  (“ISFSI”) to store all of the nuclear fuel that will be irradiated during the initial operating license period,  which ends in December 2027.  Additionally, Palo Verde has sufficient capacity at its on-site ISFSI to store  a portion of the fuel that""
""will be irradiated during the period of extended operation, which ends in  November 2047.  If uncertainties regarding the United States government’s obligation to accept and store  spent fuel are not favorably resolved, APS will evaluate expanding the ISFSI, or alternative storage  solutions that may obviate the need to expand the ISFSI, to accommodate all of the fuel that will be  irradiated during the period of extended operation.   Nuclear Decommissioning Costs — APS currently relies on an""
""external sinking fund mechanism to  meet the NRC financial assurance requirements for decommissioning its interests in Palo Verde Units 1, 2  and 3.  The decommissioning costs of Palo Verde Units 1, 2 and 3 are currently included in APS’s ACC  jurisdictional rates.  Decommissioning costs are recoverable through a non-bypassable system benefits  charge (paid by all retail customers taking service from the APS system).  Based on current nuclear  decommissioning trust asset balances, site specific""
""decommissioning cost studies, anticipated future  contributions to the decommissioning trusts, and return projections on the asset portfolios over the  expected remaining operating life of the facility, we are on track to meet the current site-specific  decommissioning costs for Palo Verde at the time the units are expected to be decommissioned.  See Note  18 for additional information about APS’s nuclear decommissioning trusts.   Palo Verde Liability and Insurance Matters — See “Palo Verde""
""Generating Station — Nuclear  Insurance” in Note 10 for a discussion of the insurance maintained by the Palo Verde participants,  including APS, for Palo Verde.   Natural Gas and Oil Fueled Generating Facilities APS has six natural gas power plants located throughout Arizona, consisting of Redhawk, located  near Palo Verde; Ocotillo, located in Tempe; Sundance, located in Coolidge; West Phoenix, located in  southwest Phoenix; Saguaro, located north of Tucson; and Yucca, located near Yuma.""
""Several of the units  at Yucca run on either gas or oil.  APS has two oil-only power plants: Douglas, located in the town of  Douglas, Arizona and Yucca GT-4 in Yuma, Arizona.  APS owns and operates each of these plants with  the exception of one oil-only combustion turbine unit and one oil and gas steam unit at Yucca that are  operated by APS and owned by the Imperial Irrigation District.  APS has a total entitlement from these  plants of 3,573 MW.  A portion of the gas for these plants is""
""financially hedged up to three years in  advance of purchasing and that position is converted to a physical gas purchase one month prior to  delivery.  APS has long-term gas transportation agreements with three different companies, some of which  are effective through 2052.  Fuel oil is acquired under short-term purchases delivered by truck directly to  the power plants. In 2024, APS contracted for the addition of two combustion turbines (approximately 90 MW in  total) at Sundance, which are""
""expected to be in service in 2026, and the addition of eight combustion  turbines (approximately 397 MW total) at Redhawk, which are expected to be in service in 2028.  Table of Contents 9  Coal Fueled Generating Facilities Four Corners — Four Corners is located in the northwestern corner of New Mexico and was  originally a 5-unit coal-fired power plant.  APS owns 100% of Units 1, 2 and 3, which were retired as of  December 30, 2013.  APS operates the plant and owns 63% of Four Corners Units 4""
""and 5.  APS has a total  entitlement from Four Corners of 970 MW.  APS plans to exit coal-fired generation as part of its portfolio  of electricity generating resources, including Four Corners, by 2031.   NTEC, a company formed by the Navajo Nation to own the mine that serves Four Corners and  develop other energy projects, is the coal supplier for Four Corners.  The Four Corners co-owners executed  a long-term agreement for the supply of coal to Four Corners from July 2016 through 2031, which""
""was  amended and restated on July 1, 2024. APS, on behalf of the Four Corners participants, negotiated amendments to an existing facility  lease with the Navajo Nation, which extends the Four Corners leasehold interest from 2016 to 2041.  The  Navajo Nation approved these amendments in March 2011.  The effectiveness of the amendments also  required the approval of the DOI, as did a related federal rights-of-way grant.  A federal environmental  review was undertaken as part of the DOI review""
""generating unit would be shut down during seasons where electricity demand is reduced,  such as the winter and spring.  The other unit would remain online year-round, subject to market conditions  as well as planned maintenance outages and unplanned outages.  As of the date of this report, APS has  elected not to begin seasonal operation due to market conditions.                Cholla — Cholla was originally a 4-unit coal-fired power plant, which is located in northeastern  Arizona.  APS""
""operates the plant and owns 100% of Cholla Units 1, 2 and 3.  PacifiCorp owns Cholla Unit  4, and APS operated that unit for PacifiCorp.  On September 11, 2014, APS announced that it would close  Cholla Unit 2 and cease burning coal at the other APS-owned units (Units 1 and 3) at the plant by the  mid-2020s, if EPA approved a compromise proposal offered by APS to meet required environmental and  emissions standards and rules.  On April 14, 2015, the ACC approved APS’s plan to retire Unit 2,""
""December 2020.  APS has committed to  end the use of coal at its remaining Cholla units during 2025. APS purchased all of Cholla coal requirements from a coal supplier that mines the coal under long- term leases of coal reserves with the federal and state governments and private landholders.  APS elected  not to extend the coal and transportation agreements that expired on December 31, 2024, as Cholla  operations are expected to conclude in 2025. Navajo Plant — The Navajo Plant was a 3-unit""
""coal-fired power plant located in northern Arizona.   Salt River Project operated the plant and APS owned a 14% interest in Units 1, 2 and 3.  APS had a total  Table of Contents 10  entitlement from the Navajo Plant of 315 MW.  The Navajo Plant site is leased from the Navajo Nation and  is also subject to an easement from the federal government.   The co-owners of the Navajo Plant and the Navajo Nation agreed that the Navajo Plant would  remain in operation until December 2019 under the existing""
""related to the resulting  regulatory asset plus a return on the net book value as well as other costs related to retirement and closure,  which are still being assessed and which may be material. See Note 10 for information regarding APS’s coal mine reclamation obligations related to these  coal-fired plants. Solar Facilities APS developed utility scale solar resources through the 180 MW ACC-approved AZ Sun Program,  investing approximately $675 million in this program.  These facilities are""
""owned by APS and are located  in multiple locations throughout Arizona.  In addition to the AZ Sun Program, APS developed the 44 MW  Red Rock Solar Plant and the 150 MW Agave Solar Plant, each of which it owns and operates, and has  contracted for the construction of the 168 MW Ironwood Solar Plant. APS owns and operates more than thirty small solar systems around the state.  Together they have  the capacity to produce approximately 4 MW of renewable energy.  This fleet of solar systems includes""
""a   3 MW facility located at the Prescott Airport and 1 MW of small solar systems in various locations across  Arizona.  APS has also developed solar photovoltaic DG systems installed as part of the Community Power  Project in Flagstaff, Arizona.  The Community Power Project, approved by the ACC on April 1, 2010, was  a pilot program through which APS owns, operates, and receives energy from approximately 1 MW of  solar photovoltaic DG systems located within a certain test area in Flagstaff,""
""Arizona.  The pilot program is  now complete and as part of the 2017 Rate Case Decision, the participants have been transferred to the  Solar Partner Program described below.  Additionally, APS owns 13 MW of solar photovoltaic systems  installed across Arizona through the ACC-approved Schools and Government Program.   In December 2014, the ACC voted that it had no objection to APS implementing an APS-owned  rooftop solar research and development program aimed at learning how to efficiently""
""enable the integration  of rooftop solar and battery storage with the grid.  The first stage of the program, called the “Solar Partner  Program,” placed 8 MW of residential rooftop solar on strategically selected distribution feeders in an  effort to maximize potential system benefits, as well as made systems available to limited-income  customers who could not easily install solar through transactions with third parties.  The second stage of  the program, which included an additional 2 MW of""
""rooftop solar and energy storage, placed two energy  storage systems sized at 2 MW on two different high solar penetration feeders to test various grid-related  operation improvements and system interoperability, and was in operation by the end of 2016.  The costs  for this program have been included in APS’s rate base as part of the 2017 Rate Case Decision.   In the 2017 Rate Case Decision, the ACC also approved the “APS Solar Communities” program.   APS Solar Communities (formerly AZ Sun II)""
""Currently, APS has installed 14 MW of DG systems under the APS Solar Communities program.  In the  2019 Rate Case decision, the ACC authorized APS to spend $20 million to $30 million in capital costs for  the APS Solar Communities program each year for a period of three years from the effective date of the  decision.  Subsequently, on March 5, 2024, the ACC ordered APS not to expand or extend the APS Solar  Communities program.  Consistent with that decision, the Solar Communities program has""
""been  discontinued and APS stopped enrolling new customers.  APS will continue work on projects that were  enrolled prior to that decision. Renewable Energy Portfolio To date, APS has a diverse portfolio of existing and planned renewable resources totaling 7,660  MW, including biogas, biomass, geothermal, solar, and wind.  Of this portfolio, 3,608 MW are currently in  operation and 4,052 MW are under contract for development or are under construction.  Renewable  resources in operation include""
""416 MW of facilities owned by APS, 1,465 MW of long-term purchased  power agreements, and an estimated 1,727 MW of customer-sited, third-party owned distributed energy  resources. On June 30, 2023, APS issued an ASRFP (the “2023 ASRFP”) pursuant to which APS procured  nearly 7,300 MW of new resources to be in service from 2026 to 2028.  On November 20, 2024, APS issued an ASRFP (the “2024 ASRFP”) seeking 2,000 MW of  resources.  APS is seeking projects that can reach commercial operation""
""beginning June 1, 2028 through  June 1, 2030 but will consider projects that may achieve commercial operation as early as 2026.   Additionally, APS is interested in projects that require longer planning, permitting, and construction and  can be commercially operational after June 1, 2030.  Bids for the 2024 ASRFP were due on February 5,  2025.   APS’s strategy to achieve its RES requirements includes executing purchased power contracts for  new facilities, ongoing development of distributed""
""energy resources and procurement of new facilities to be  owned by APS.  See “Energy Sources and Resource Planning — Generation Facilities — Solar Facilities”  above for information regarding APS-owned solar facilities and “Energy Sources and Resource Planning  — Generation Facilities — Energy Storage” below for more information regarding APS-owned energy  storage facilities. The following table summarizes APS’s renewable energy sources currently in operation and under  development as of the""
""date of this report.  Agreements for the development and completion of future  resources are subject to various conditions, including successful siting, permitting and interconnection of  the projects to the electric grid.   Location Actual/  Target Commercial Operation Date Term (Years) Net  Capacity  In Operation (MW AC) Net Capacity  Planned/ Under Development (MW AC) APS Owned           Solar:           AZ Sun Program:           Paloma Gila Bend, AZ 2011     17    Table of Contents 12""
""Solar Dateland, AZ 2026 168 Distributed Energy:           APS Owned (a) AZ Various     38  Total APS Owned         416   168  PPAs           Solar:           Solana Gila Bend, AZ 2013   30   250    RE Ajo Ajo, AZ 2011   25   5    Sun E AZ 1 Prescott, AZ 2011   30   10    Saddle Mountain Tonopah, AZ 2012   30   15    Badger Tonopah, AZ 2013   30   15    Gillespie Maricopa County,  AZ 2013   30   15    Mesquite Solar 5 Tonopah, AZ 2023   20   60  Sunstreams 3 Arlington, AZ 2024   20   215  Yuma""
""Solar Energy Yuma County, AZ 2025   20    70  Harquahala Sun 2 Tonopah, AZ 2025   20    300  Sunstreams 4 Arlington, AZ 2025   20    300  Serrano Solar Pima and Pinal  County, AZ 2025   20    170  CO Bar Solar C Coconino County, AZ 2027   20    206  Hashknife 1 Navajo County, AZ 2026   20    275  Catclaw Buckeye, AZ 2026   20    225  Papago Solar Maricopa County,  AZ 2026   20    150  Hashknife 2 Navajo County, AZ 2027   20    200  Kitt Eloy, AZ 2026   20    100  Pioneer Yuma, AZ 2027   20""
""300  Maricopa Energy Center Phase 1 Maricopa County,  AZ 2026   20    183  Maricopa Energy Center Phase 2 Maricopa County,  AZ 2027   20    367  Snowflake Solar Snowflake, AZ 2027   20    475  Wind:           Aragonne Mesa Santa Rosa, NM 2022   20   200  High Lonesome Mountainair, NM 2009   30   100    Perrin Ranch Wind Williams, AZ 2012   25   99    Chevelon Butte Winslow, AZ 2023   20   238  Chevelon Butte II Winslow, AZ 2024   20   216  West Camp Wind Farm Navajo County, AZ 2026   20    500""
""Table of Contents 13  Geothermal:           Salton Sea Imperial County, CA 2006   23   10    Biomass:           Snowflake Snowflake, AZ 2008   25   14    Biogas:           NW Regional Landfill Surprise, AZ 2012   20   3    Total PPAs         1,465   3,821  Distributed Energy           Solar (b)           Third-party Owned AZ Various     1,694   63  Agreement 1 Bagdad, AZ 2011   25   15    Agreement 2 AZ 2011-2012 20-21   18    Total Distributed Energy         1,727   63  Total Renewable""
""Portfolio         3,608   4,052  (a) Includes Flagstaff Community Power Project, APS School and Government Program, APS Solar Partner  Program, and APS Solar Communities Program. (b) Includes rooftop solar facilities owned by third parties.  DG is produced in direct current and is converted to  alternating current for reporting purposes. Energy Storage APS deploys a number of advanced technologies on its system, including energy storage.  Energy  storage provides capacity, improves power""
""quality, can be utilized for system regulation and, in certain  circumstances, be used to defer certain traditional infrastructure investments.  Energy storage also aids in  integrating renewable generation by storing excess energy when system demand is low and renewable  production is high and then releasing the stored energy during peak demand hours later in the day and after  sunset.  APS is utilizing grid-scale energy storage projects to meet customer reliability requirements,  increase""
""renewable utilization, and further our understanding of how storage works with other advanced  technologies and the grid.   See “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition — Clean Energy  Commitment — Energy Storage” for a table summarizing the resources in APS’s energy storage portfolio  that are in operation and under development as of the date of this report.  Agreements for the development  and completion of future resources are subject to various conditions.""
""Purchased Power Contracts In addition to its own available generating capacity, APS purchases electricity under various  arrangements, including long-term contracts and purchases through short-term markets to supplement its  owned or leased generation and hedge its energy requirements.  A portion of APS’s purchased power  expense is netted against wholesale sales on the Consolidated Statements of Income.  See Note 15.  APS  continually assesses its need for additional capacity resources to""
""assure system reliability.  In addition, APS  has also entered into several PPAs for energy storage.  See “Business of Arizona Public Service Company  — Energy Sources and Resource Planning — Energy Storage” above for details on our energy storage  PPAs. Table of Contents 14  Purchased Power Capacity — APS’s purchased power capacity under long-term contracts as of the  date of this report is summarized in the table below.  All capacity values are based on net capacity unless  otherwise noted.""
""Type   Dates Available   Capacity  (MW) Purchase Agreement (a) Year-round through June 14, 2025   46  Demand Response Agreement   Summer seasons through 2025     75  Tolling Agreement May 1 through April 30, 2021-2025   463          Extension Term  May 1 through October 31, 2025-2032   525  Tolling Agreement June 1 through September 30, 2020-2026   565          Extension Term  May 1 through October 31, 2026-2031   565  Tolling Agreement June 1 through September 30, 2020-2026   570""
""Extension Term  May 1 through October 31, 2027-2034   600  Renewable Energy (b)   Various     1,465  (a) Up to 46 MW of capacity is available; however, the amount of electricity available to APS under this  agreement is based in large part on customer demand and is adjusted annually. (b) Does not include MW of capacity planned or under development.  See “Energy Sources and Resource  Planning — Generation Facilities — Renewable Energy Portfolio” for more details on renewable energy  power""
""purchase agreements. Current and Future Resources   Current Demand and Reserve Margin  Electric power demand is generally seasonal.  In Arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot  summer months.  APS’s 2024 peak one-hour demand on its electric system was recorded on August 4,  2024, at 8,210 MW, compared to the 2023 peak of 8,162 MW recorded on July 15, 2023.  APS’s reserve  margin at the time of the 2024 peak demand, calculated using system load serving capacity, was 15%.  For  2025, APS is""
""procuring market resources to maintain its minimum 16% planning reserve criteria. Future Resources and Resource Plan ACC rules require utilities to develop 15-year Integrated Resource Plans (“IRP”) which describe  how the utility plans to serve customer load in the plan timeframe.  The ACC reviews each utility’s IRP to  determine if it meets the necessary rule requirements and whether it should be acknowledged.  On May 1,  2023, APS, Tucson Electric Power Company, and UNS Electric, Inc. filed a""
""approved certain amendments to the IRP  process, including requirements for APS to demonstrate resource adequacy prior to exiting Four Corners as  well as analysis of impacts from western market participation and planned resource requirements in the  next IRP. See “Business of Arizona Public Service Company — Energy Sources and Resource Planning —  Clean Energy Focus Initiatives” and “Business of Arizona Public Service Company — Energy Sources and  Resource Planning — Energy Storage” above for""
""information regarding future plans for energy storage.   Table of Contents 15  See “Business of Arizona Public Service Company — Energy Sources and Resource Planning —  Generation Facilities — Coal-Fueled Generating Facilities” above for information regarding plans for  Cholla, Four Corners and the Navajo Plant.  Western Energy Imbalance Market and Wholesale Market In 2016, APS began to participate in the Western Energy Imbalance Market (“WEIM”), a  voluntary, real-time optimization market""
""operated by the CAISO.  The WEIM allows for rebalancing  supply and demand in 15-minute blocks and dispatching generation every five minutes, instead of the  traditional one-hour blocks.  APS continues to expect that its participation in WEIM will lower its fuel and  purchased-power costs, improve situational awareness for system operations in the Western  Interconnection power grid, and improve integration of APS’s renewable resources.  APS participated in  market design and tariff development""
""of Markets+, a day-ahead and real-time market offering from  Southwest Power Pool (“SPP”).  The Markets+ tariff was filed with FERC on March 29, 2024 and was  approved on January 16, 2025.  APS announced a market decision to pursue participation in SPP  Markets+.  In addition, APS is participating in the Western Resource Adequacy Program administered by  Western Power Pool and is transitioning to full binding participation as early as summer 2027.  These  regional efforts are driven by the""
""objectives of reducing customer cost and improving reliability. Energy Modernization Plan  In June 2021, the ACC adopted clean energy rules based on a series of ACC amendments to the  final energy rules.  The adopted rules require 100% clean energy by 2070 and the following interim  standards for carbon reduction from a baseline carbon emissions level: 50% reduction by December 31,  2032; 65% reduction by December 31, 2040; 80% reduction by December 31, 2050, and 95% reduction by  December 31,""
""2060.  Since the adopted clean energy rules differed substantially from the original  Recommended Opinion and Order (“ROO”), supplemental rulemaking procedures were required before the  rules could become effective.  On January 26, 2022, the ACC reversed its prior decision and declined to  send the final draft energy rules through the rulemaking process.  Instead, the ACC opened a new docket to  consider all-source request for proposals (“ASRFP”) requirements and the IRP process.  During the""
""August  2022 ACC Open Meeting, the ACC voted to postpone a decision on the ASRFP and IRP rulemaking  package until 2023.  On May 26, 2023, the ACC opened a new docket to review articles within the Arizona  Administrative Code related to Resource Planning, the Renewable Energy Standard and Tariff, and Electric  Energy Efficiency Standards.  On January 9, 2024, the ACC approved a rulemaking process to begin on  this matter.  During the ACC Open Meeting on February 6, 2024, the ACC approved motions""
""to direct  ACC Staff to include recommendations to repeal the current Electric Energy Efficiency and Renewable  Energy Standard rules during the rulemaking process.  On August 21, 2024, ACC Staff proposed  amendments striking the rules and filed preliminary economic, small business, and consumer impact  statements, consistent with the formal rulemaking process.  APS cannot predict the outcome of this matter.   See Note 3 for additional information related to these energy rules.  Table of""
""Contents 16  Renewable Energy Standard   In 2006, the ACC approved the RES.  Under the RES, electric utilities that are regulated by the  ACC must supply an increasing percentage of their retail electric energy sales from eligible renewable  resources, including, for example, solar, wind, biomass, biogas and geothermal technologies.  In order to  achieve these requirements, the ACC allows APS to include a RES surcharge as part of customer bills to  recover the approved amounts for use on""
""renewable energy projects.  Each year, APS is required to file a  five-year implementation plan with the ACC and seek approval for funding the upcoming year’s RES  budget. In June 2021, the ACC adopted a clean energy rules package which would require APS to meet  certain clean energy standards and technology procurement mandates, obtain approval for its action plan  included in its IRP, and seek cost recovery in a rate process.  Since the adopted clean energy rules differed  substantially from""
""the original ROO, supplemental rulemaking procedures were required before the rules  could become effective.  On January 26, 2022, the ACC reversed its prior decision and declined to send the  final draft energy rules through the rulemaking process.  Instead, the ACC opened a new docket to consider  ASRFP requirements and the IRP process.  See “Energy Modernization Plan” above for more information. On July 1, 2021, APS filed its 2022 RES Implementation Plan and proposed a budget of""
""approximately $93.1 million.  APS filed an amended 2022 RES Implementation Plan on December 9,  2021, with a proposed budget of $100.5 million.  This budget included funding for programs to comply  with the decision in the 2019 Rate Case, including the ACC authorizing spending $20 million to  $30 million in capital costs for the continuation of the APS Solar Communities program each year for a  period of three years from the effective date of the 2019 Rate Case decision.  APS’s budget proposal""
""supported existing approved projects and commitments and requested a waiver of the RES residential and  non-residential distributed energy requirements for 2022.  On May 18, 2022, the ACC approved the 2022  RES Implementation Plan, including an amendment requiring a stakeholder working group convene to  develop a community solar program for the ACC’s consideration at a future date.   On July 1, 2022, APS filed its 2023 RES Implementation Plan and proposed a budget of  approximately $86.2""
""million, excluding any funding offsets.  This budget contained funding for programs  to comply with ACC-approved initiatives, including the 2019 Rate Case decision.  APS’s budget proposal  supported existing approved projects and commitments and requested a waiver of the RES residential and  non-residential distributed energy requirements for 2022.  On November 10, 2022, the ACC approved the  2023 RES Implementation Plan, including APS’s requested waiver of the distributed energy requirement""
""for 2023. On June 30, 2023, APS filed its 2024 RES Implementation Plan and proposed a budget of  approximately $95.1 million.  APS’s budget proposal supports existing approved projects and  commitments and requests a waiver of the RES renewable energy credit requirements to demonstrate  compliance with the Annual Renewable Energy Requirement for 2023.  The ACC has not yet ruled on the  2024 RES Implementation Plan.  APS cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding. On July 1, 2024, APS filed""
""its 2025 RES Implementation Plan and proposed a budget of  approximately $92.7 million.  APS’s budget proposal supports existing approved projects and  commitments and requests a waiver of the RES renewable energy credit requirements to demonstrate  compliance with the Annual Renewable Energy Requirement for 2024.  The ACC has not yet ruled on the  2025 RES Implementation Plan.  APS cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding. Table of Contents 17  On June 14, 2021, APS filed an application""
""for approval of its Green Power Partners Program  (“GPP”).  On September 1, 2021, the ACC approved the application.  On June 28, 2024, APS filed an  application for approval of modifications to the GPP and requested a renewable generation renewable  energy credits waiver.  The ACC has not yet ruled on the GPP application.  APS cannot predict the  outcome of this proceeding.   Demand Side Management On January 1, 2011, Arizona regulators adopted an EES of 22% cumulative annual energy savings  by""
""2020 to increase energy efficiency and other DSM programs encouraging customers to conserve energy,  while incentivizing utilities to aid in these efforts that ultimately reduce the demand for energy.  APS  achieved the 22% EES in 2021.  See Note 3 for information regarding energy efficiency, other DSM  obligations and the Energy Modernization Plan. Competitive Environment and Regulatory Oversight   Retail    The ACC regulates APS’s retail electric rates and its issuance of securities.  The ACC""
""must also  approve any significant transfer or encumbrance of APS’s property used to provide retail electric service  and approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between Pinnacle West, APS, and their  respective affiliates.  See Note 3 for information regarding ACC’s regulation of APS’s retail electric rates.   APS is subject to varying degrees of competition from other investor-owned electric and gas  utilities in Arizona (such as Southwest Gas Corporation), as well as""
""cooperatives, municipalities, electrical  districts, and similar types of governmental or non-profit organizations.  In addition, some customers,  particularly industrial and large commercial customers, may own and operate generation facilities to meet  some or all of their own energy requirements.  This practice is becoming more popular with customers  installing or having installed products such as rooftop solar panels to meet or supplement their energy  needs.   On November 17, 2018, the ACC""
""voted to re-examine the facilitation of a deregulated retail  electric market in Arizona.  On July 1 and July 2, 2019, ACC Staff issued a report and initial proposed  draft rules regarding possible modifications to the ACC’s retail electric competition rules.  On February 10,  2020, two ACC Commissioners filed two sets of draft proposed retail electric competition rules.  On  February 12, 2020, ACC Staff issued its second report regarding possible modifications to the ACC’s retail  electric""
""regulates rates for wholesale power sales and transmission services.  See Note 3 for  information regarding APS’s transmission rates.  During 2024, approximately 4.2% of APS’s electric  operating revenues resulted from such sales and services.  APS’s wholesale activity primarily consists of  managing fuel and purchased power supplies to serve retail customer energy requirements.  APS also sells,  in the wholesale market, its generation output that is not needed for APS’s Native Load and, in""
""doing so,  competes with other utilities, power marketers and independent power producers.  Additionally, subject to  specified parameters, APS hedges both electricity and natural gas.  The majority of these activities are  undertaken to mitigate risk in APS’s portfolio. Transmission and Delivery APS continues to work closely with customers, stakeholders, and regulators to identify and plan for  transmission needs that support new customers, system reliability, access to markets and clean energy""
""needs, APS has  developed a future-focused, strategic transmission plan (the “Ten-Year Transmission Plan”).  The Ten- Year Transmission Plan includes five critical transmission projects that comprise the APS strategic  transmission portfolio, which represents a significant upgrade to APS’s transmission system.  These five  projects, along with other projects included in the Ten-Year Transmission Plan, are intended to support  growing energy needs, strengthen reliability, and allow for the""
""connection of new resources.   APS is also working to establish and expand advanced grid technologies throughout its service  territory to provide long-term benefits both to APS and its customers.  APS is strategically deploying a  variety of technologies that are intended to allow customers to better manage their energy usage, minimize  system outage durations and frequency, enable customer choice for new customer sited technologies, and  facilitate greater cost savings to APS through improved""
""reliability and the automation of certain delivery  functions. Environmental Matters Climate Change  Legislative Initiatives.  There have been no recent successful attempts by Congress to pass  legislation that would regulate GHG emissions, and it is unclear at this time whether legislation regulating  or limiting utility-sector GHG emissions introduced during prior sessions of Congress will become law.  In  the event climate change legislation ultimately passes, the actual economic and""
""operational impact of such  legislation on APS depends on a variety of factors, none of which can be fully known until a law is written,  enacted, and the specifics of the resulting program are established.  These factors include, without  limitation, the terms of the legislation with regard to allowed GHG emissions; the cost to reduce emissions;  in the event a cap-and-trade program is established, whether any permitted emissions allowances will be  allocated to source operators free of cost or""
""auctioned (and, if so, the cost of those allowances in the  marketplace) and whether offsets and other measures to moderate the costs of compliance will be available;  Table of Contents 19  and, in the event of a carbon tax, the amount of the tax per pound of carbon dioxide (“CO2”) equivalent  emitted. In addition to federal legislative initiatives, state-specific initiatives may also impact our business.   While Arizona has no pending legislation regulating GHGs, the California legislature""
""enacted AB 32 and  Senate Bill (“SB”) 1368 in 2006 to address GHG emissions.  In October 2011, the California Air  Resources Board (“CARB”) approved final regulations that established a state-wide cap on GHG emissions  beginning on January 1, 2013, and established a GHG allowance trading program under that cap.  The first  phase of the program, which applies to, among other entities, importers of electricity, commenced on  January 1, 2013.  Under the program, entities selling electricity into""
""California, including APS, must hold  carbon allowances to cover GHG emissions associated with electricity sales into California from outside  the state.  APS is authorized to recover the cost of these carbon allowances through the PSA. The California legislature also enacted SB 219, SB 253, and SB 261, which mandate climate- related disclosures for certain companies doing business in California.  CARB is expected to issue  regulations for these bills in 2025.  Pinnacle West and APS are""
""currently reviewing whether they would be  required to make disclosures pursuant to these bills. Regulatory Initiatives.  In 2009, EPA determined that GHG emissions endanger public health and  welfare.  As a result of this “endangerment finding,” EPA determined that the Clean Air Act required new  regulatory requirements for new and modified major GHG emitting sources, including power plants.  APS  will generally be required to consider the impact of GHG emissions as part of its traditional New""
""Source  Review analysis for new major sources and major modifications to existing plants.   EPA’s regulation of carbon dioxide emissions from electric utility power plants has proceeded in  fits and starts over most of the last decade.  Starting on August 3, 2015, EPA finalized the Clean Power  Plan, which was the Agency’s first effort at such regulation through system-wide generation dispatch  shifting.  Those regulations were subsequently repealed by the EPA on June 19, 2019, and replaced by""
""the  Affordable Clean Energy (“ACE”) regulations, which were a far narrower set of rules.  While the U.S.  Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit subsequently vacated the ACE regulations on January 19, 2021, and  ordered a remand for EPA to develop replacement regulations consistent with the original 2015 Clean  Power Plan, the U.S. Supreme Court subsequently reversed that decision on June 30, 2022, holding that the  Clean Power Plan exceeded EPA’s authority under the Clean Air Act. In the final""
""regulations governing power plant carbon dioxide emissions released April 25, 2024,  EPA issued emission standards and guidelines for various subcategories of new and existing power plants.   Unlike EPA’s Clean Power Plan regulations from 2015, which took a broad, system-wide approach to  regulating carbon emissions from electric utility fossil-fuel burning power plants, these new federal  regulations are limited to measures that can be installed at individual power plants to limit planet-""
""warming  carbon-dioxide emissions.   As such, for new natural gas-fired combustion turbine power plants, EPA is proposing that carbon  emission performance standards apply based on the annual capacity factors.  For the highest utilization  combustion turbines, EPA is therefore proposing that such facilities be retrofitted for carbon capture and  sequestration or utilization controls (“CCS”) by 2032.  For intermediate or low-load natural gas fired  combustion turbines, those with 40% or less""
""capacity factors, EPA’s regulations would not require add-on  pollution controls.  Instead, natural gas-fired combustion turbines with capacity factors of up to 20% would  be effectively unregulated, while such turbines with capacity factors over 20% and up to 40% would be  subject to carbon dioxide emission rate limitations.  EPA did not finalize standards for existing natural gas- Table of Contents 20  fired combustion turbines but has indicated that it will propose a new set of standards,""
""initiating a separate  rulemaking, for these existing gas-fired power plants within the next year. For coal-fired power plants, instead of imposing regulations based on capacity and utilization, EPA  has finalized subcategories based on planned retirement dates.  This means that facilities retiring before  2032 are effectively exempt from regulation, those that retire between 2032 and 2038 must co-fire with  natural gas starting in 2030, and those that retire in 2039 or later must install CCS""
""controls by 2032.   As of May 10, 2024, several states, electric utility companies, affiliated trade associations, and  other entities filed petitions for review of these regulations in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals.  APS is  participating in that litigation as part of an ad hoc coalition of electric utility companies, independent power  producers, and trade groups, called Electric Generators for a Sensible Transition.  We cannot predict the  outcome of the litigation challenging EPA’s""
""latest carbon emission standards for power plants.  In addition,  the Trump administration has stated that it intends to reverse or substantially revise these standards.  We  cannot predict the outcome of future rulemaking or other regulatory proceedings aimed at changing or  eliminating the current EPA emission standards for power plants. If this regulation remains in effect, it will likely lead to a material increase in APS’s costs to build,  operate, and maintain new, frequently operated gas-""
""fired power plants.  The regulatory deadlines in 2032  by which new, frequently operated gas-fired power plants must install carbon capture and sequestration and  achieve 90% capture efficiency may not be feasible.  Future resource plans and procurement efforts  implicating the development of such new generation remains pending and, as such, at this time APS is not  able to quantify the financial impact associated with EPA’s GHG regulations for power plants. Other environmental rules that could""
""involve material compliance costs include those related to  effluent limitations, the ozone national ambient air quality standards (“NAAQS”) and other rules or matters  involving the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Endangered Species Act, RCRA, Superfund, the Navajo  Nation, and water supplies for our power plants.  The financial impact of complying with current and  future environmental rules could jeopardize the economic viability of APS’s fossil-fuel powered plants or  the willingness or""
""obtain such  recovery.        EPA Environmental Regulation Coal Combustion Waste.  On December 19, 2014, EPA issued its final regulations governing the  handling and disposal of CCR, such as fly ash and bottom ash.  The rule regulates CCR as a non-hazardous  waste under Subtitle D of the RCRA and establishes national minimum criteria for existing and new CCR  landfills and surface impoundments and all lateral expansions.  These criteria include standards governing  location restrictions, design""
""and operating criteria, groundwater monitoring and corrective action, closure  requirements and post closure care, and recordkeeping, notification, and internet posting requirements.   The rule generally requires any existing unlined CCR surface impoundment to stop receiving CCR and  either retrofit or close, and further requires the closure of any CCR landfill or surface impoundment that  cannot meet the applicable performance criteria for location restrictions or structural integrity.  Such""
""closure requirements are deemed “forced closure” or “closure for cause” of unlined surface impoundments  and are the subject of recent regulatory and judicial activities described below. Table of Contents 21  Since these regulations were finalized, EPA has taken steps to substantially modify the federal  rules governing CCR disposal.  While certain changes have been prompted by utility industry petitions,  others have resulted from judicial review, court-approved settlements with environmental""
""groups, and  statutory changes to RCRA.  The following lists the pending regulatory changes that, if finalized, could  have a material impact as to how APS manages CCR at its coal-fired power plants: • Following the passage of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (“WIIN”) Act  in 2016, EPA possesses authority to either authorize states to develop their own permit  programs for CCR management or issue federal permits governing CCR disposal both in states  without their own permit""
""programs and on tribal lands.  At this time, the Arizona Department of  Environmental Quality (“ADEQ”) has taken steps to develop a CCR permitting program. It  remains unclear when the EPA would approve the permitting program pursuant to the WIIN  Act.  On December 19, 2019, EPA proposed its own set of regulations governing the issuance  of CCR management permits, which would impact facilities like Four Corners located on the  Navajo Nation.  The proposal remains pending.    • On March 1, 2018,""
""as a result of a settlement with certain environmental groups, EPA proposed  adding boron to the list of constituents that trigger corrective action requirements to remediate  groundwater impacted by CCR disposal activities.  Apart from a subsequent proposal issued on  August 14, 2019, to add a specific, health-based groundwater protection standard for boron,  EPA has yet to take action on this proposal.    • With respect to APS’s Cholla facility, APS’s application for alternative closure was""
""submitted  to EPA on November 30, 2020.  While EPA has deemed APS’s application administratively  “complete,” the Agency’s approval remains pending.  If granted, this application would allow  the continued disposal of CCR within Cholla’s existing unlined CCR surface impoundments  until the required date for ceasing coal-fired boiler operations in April 2025.  This application  will be subject to public comment and, potentially, judicial review.  We expect to have a  proposed decision from EPA""
""impacts from historical CCR disposal activities that would have ceased prior to  2015.  This new class of CCR management units (“CCRMUs”), which contain at least 1,000 tons of CCR,  broadly encompass any location at an operating coal-fired power plant where CCR would have been placed  on land.  As proposed, this would include not only historically closed landfills and surface impoundments  but also prior applications of CCR beneficial use (with exceptions for historical roadbed and embankment""
""applications).  Existing CCR regulatory requirements for groundwater monitoring, corrective action,  closure, post-closure care, and other requirements will be imposed on such CCRMUs.  At this time, APS is  still evaluating the impacts of this final regulation on its business, with initial CCRMU site surveys due to  be completed by February 2026 and final site investigation reports to be finalized by February 2027.   Based on the information available to APS at this time, APS cannot reasonably""
""estimate the fair value of  the entire CCRMU asset retirement obligation.  Depending on the outcome of those evaluations and site  Table of Contents 22  investigations, the costs associated with APS’s management of CCR could materially increase, which  could affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. APS currently disposes of CCR in ash ponds and dry storage areas at Cholla and Four Corners.   The Navajo Plant disposed of CCR only in a dry landfill storage area.""
""Additionally, the CCR rule requires  ongoing, phased groundwater monitoring.  As of October 2018, APS has completed the statistical analyses  for its CCR disposal units that triggered assessment monitoring.  APS determined that several of its CCR  disposal units at Cholla and Four Corners will need to undergo corrective action.  In addition, under the  current regulations, all such disposal units must have ceased operating and initiated closure as of April 11,  2021 (except for those disposal""
""material impact on its  financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Effluent Limitation Guidelines.   EPA published effluent limitation guidelines (“ELG”) on  October 13, 2020, and based off those guidelines, APS completed a National Pollutant Discharge  Elimination System (“NPDES”) permit modification for Four Corners on December 1, 2023.  The ELG  standards finalized in October 2020 relaxed the “zero discharge” standard for bottom ash transport waters  EPA finalized in September""
""2015.  However, on April 25, 2024, EPA finalized new ELG regulations that  once again require “zero discharge” standards for flows of bottom ash transport water at power plants like  Four Corners.  Nonetheless, for power plants that permanently cease operations by December 31, 2034,  such facilities can continue to comply with the 2020 ELG standards.  APS is currently evaluating its  compliance options for Four Corners based on the ELG regulations finalized in April 2024 and is assessing  what""
""impacts the new standards will have on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards.  On October 1, 2015, EPA finalized revisions to  the primary ground-level ozone NAAQS at a level of 70 parts per billion (“ppb”).  Further, on       December 23, 2020, EPA issued a final regulation retaining the current primary NAAQS for ozone,  following a required scientific review process.  With ozone standards becoming more stringent, our fossil""
""generation units will come under increasing pressure to reduce emissions of NOx and volatile organic  compounds, and to generate emission offsets for new projects or facility expansions located in ozone  nonattainment areas.  EPA was expected to designate attainment and nonattainment areas relative to the  new 70 ppb standard by October 1, 2017.   While EPA took action designating attainment and  unclassifiable areas on November 6, 2017, the Agency’s final action designating non-attainment areas""
""was  not issued until April 30, 2018.  At that time, EPA designated the geographic areas containing Yuma and  Phoenix, Arizona as in non-attainment with the 2015 70 ppb ozone NAAQS.  The vast majority of APS’s  natural gas-fired EGUs are located in these jurisdictions.  Areas of Arizona and the Navajo Nation where  the remainder of APS’s fossil-fuel fired EGU fleet is located were designated as in attainment.  At this  time, because proposed SIPs and FIPs implementing the revised ozone NAAQSs""
""have yet to be released,  APS is unable to predict what impact the adoption of these standards may have on APS.  APS will continue  to monitor these standards as they are implemented within the jurisdictions affecting APS. Table of Contents 23  EPA Good Neighbor Proposal for Arizona.  On March 15, 2023, EPA issued its final Good  Neighbor Plan for 23 states in order to ensure that the cross-state transport of ozone forming emissions  does not interfere with downwind state compliance with the""
""National Ambient Air Quality Standards  (“NAAQS”).  Thermal power plant emission limitations are a key aspect of these regulations, which  involve emission allowance trading for nitrogen oxide (“NOx”) emissions.  While Arizona was not among  the 23 states subject to EPA’s March 2023 final action, EPA announced on January 23, 2024 that it was  proposing to add Arizona and New Mexico (along with two other additional states) to EPA’s NOx  emission allowance trading program finalized last year.""
""That proposal involves adding these states to the  Good Neighbor Plan and disapproving the corresponding provisions of each state’s State Implementation  Plan.  Because APS operates thermal power plants within Arizona and those portions of the Navajo Nation  within New Mexico, APS’s power plants would be subject to EPA’s Good Neighbor Plan upon finalization  of this proposal.  EPA’s final Good Neighbor Plan is subject to ongoing judicial review in the D.C. Circuit  Court of Appeals.  On June 27,""
""2024, the U.S. Supreme Court granted a motion to stay the effectiveness of  EPA’s final Good Neighbor Plan pending the resolution of the litigation.  As such, APS will not be  impacted by the Good Neighbor Plan until the outcome of this litigation is finalized.  In addition, on  December 19, 2024, EPA announced that it was withdrawing its proposal to add Arizona (along with other  western states) to the federal Good Neighbor Plan.  As such, while EPA may elect to resume work on and  finalize""
""this proposal in the future, it is unlikely to do so over a near-term horizon.  APS cannot predict the  outcome of any future EPA efforts to add Arizona to the federal Good Neighbor Plan (which depends on  action disapproving the Arizona State Implementation Plan) or whether the Good Neighbor Plan itself will  remain in effect pending the outcome of judicial review in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals.  Should the  Good Neighbor Plan ultimately be imposed on APS and its operations in Arizona and""
""New Mexico, it  would have material impact on both the costs to operate current APS power plants and APS’s ability to  develop new thermal generation to serve load.  At this time, APS cannot predict the impact on the  Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Revised Mercury and Air Toxics Standard (“MATS”) Proposal.  On April 25, 2024, EPA  finalized revisions to the existing MATS regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollution from  existing coal-fired power""
""plants.  The final regulations increase the stringency of filterable particulate  matter limits used to demonstrate compliance with MATS and require the use of continuous emissions  monitoring systems to ensure compliance (as opposed to periodic performance testing).  These final  regulations will take effect for existing coal-fired power plants, such as Four Corners, within three years of  publication in the Federal Register.  Based on APS’s assessment of the revised MATS regulations, this""
""final rule is unlikely to have a material impact on plant operations or require significant capital  expenditures to ensure compliance. Superfund-Related Matters.  The Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and  Liability Act (“Superfund” or “CERCLA”) establishes liability for the cleanup of hazardous substances  found contaminating the soil, water or air.  Those who released, generated, transported to or disposed of  hazardous substances at a contaminated site are among the parties""
""APS agreed with EPA and one other PRP to voluntarily assist  with the funding and management of the site-wide groundwater remedial investigation and feasibility study  (“RI/FS”).  The RI/FS for OU3 was finalized and submitted to EPA at the end of 2022.  EPA notified APS  that the RI/FS was approved on September 11, 2024.  APS’s estimated costs related to this investigation  and study is approximately $3 million.  APS anticipates incurring additional expenditures in the future, but  Table of""
""Contents 24  because the final costs associated with remediation requirements set forth in the RI/FS are not yet finalized,  at the present time expenditures related to this matter cannot be reasonably estimated.  In connection with APS’s status as a PRP for OU3, since 2013 APS and at least two dozen other  parties have been defendants in various CERCLA lawsuits stemming from allegations that contamination  from OU3 and elsewhere has impacted groundwater wells operated by the Roosevelt""
""a request for information under CERCLA related  to APS’s Ocotillo power plant site located in Tempe, Arizona.  In particular, EPA seeks information from  APS regarding APS’s use, storage, and disposal of substances containing per-and polyfluoroalkyl  (“PFAS”) compounds at the Ocotillo power plant site in order to aid EPA’s investigation into actual or  threatened releases of PFAS into groundwater within the South Indian Bend Wash (“SIBW”) Superfund  site.  The SIBW Superfund site includes the""
""APS Ocotillo power plant site.  APS filed its response to this  information request on April 29, 2022.  On January 17, 2023, EPA contacted APS to inform APS that it  would be commencing on-site investigations within the SIBW site, including the Ocotillo power plant, and  performing a remedial investigation and feasibility study related to potential PFAS impacts to groundwater  over the next two to three years.  APS estimates that its costs to oversee and participate in the remedial""
""investigation work will be approximately $1.7 million.  At the present time, we are unable to predict the  outcome of this matter, and any further expenditures related to necessary remediation, if any, or further  investigations cannot be reasonably estimated.  Four Corners National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit  The latest NPDES permit for Four Corners was issued on September 30, 2019.  Based upon a  November 1, 2019 filing by several environmental groups, the Environmental""
""Appeals Board (“EAB”)  took up review of the Four Corners NPDES Permit.  The EAB denied the environmental group petition on      September 30, 2020.  While on January 22, 2021, the environmental groups filed a petition for review of  the EAB’s decision with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, the parties to the litigation  (including APS) finalized a settlement on May 2, 2022.  This settlement requires investigation of thermal  wastewater discharges from Four Corners,""
""administratively closes the litigation filed in January of 2021,  and APS does not expect the outcome to have a material impact on its financial condition, results of  operations, or cash flows. Table of Contents 25  Water Supply Based on a declaration from the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, as of January 1, 2025, Arizona’s  supply of Colorado River water will remain subject to a Tier 1 shortage.  This is the third year since 2022  that a Tier 1 shortage has been declared.  The most severe shortage""
""to have been declared was a Tier 2a  shortage in 2023.  A Tier 1 shortage reduces Arizona’s share of the Colorado River water by 18 percent or  512,000-acre feet; however, due to in-state conservation measures, Arizona has kept more Colorado River  water in Lake Mead than is required by the shortage.  Tier 1 reductions are largely felt by central Arizona’s  agricultural users, mainly in Pinal County.  Assured supplies of water are important for APS’s generating  plants.  At this time, a Tier 1""
""shortage does not materially impact water supplies used by APS’s fleet of  generation resources.  As drought conditions across the southwestern U.S. region continue to worsen, APS  will monitor water availability necessary for continued Company operations and, as necessary, implement  measures to mitigate risks associated with future Colorado River shortage declarations.        Conflicting claims to drought-impacted surface water in the southwestern United States have  resulted in disputes and""
""numerous court actions.  The General Stream Adjudication allows the state to issue  a final priority determination on claims to surface water rights.  There are three General Stream  Adjudications near APS generating stations that may impact surface water or groundwater supplies that are  adjacent to surface water streams. San Juan River Adjudication.  Both groundwater and surface water in areas important to APS’s  operations have been the subject of inquiries, claims, and legal proceedings,""
""allocation to offset the loss.  In addition, APS is a party to a  water contract that allows the Company to secure water for Four Corners in the event of a water shortage in  the San Juan River Basin. Gila River Adjudication.  A summons served on APS in early 1986 required all water claimants in  the Lower Gila River Watershed in Arizona to assert any claims to water on or before January 20, 1987, in  an action pending in Arizona Superior Court.  Palo Verde is located within the geographic area""
""subject to  the summons.  APS’s rights and the rights of the other Palo Verde participants to the use of groundwater  and effluent at Palo Verde are potentially at issue in this adjudication.  As operating agent of Palo Verde,  APS filed claims that dispute the court’s jurisdiction over the Palo Verde participants’ groundwater rights  and their contractual rights to effluent relating to Palo Verde.  Alternatively, APS seeks confirmation of  such rights.  Several of APS’s other power plants are""
""also located within the geographic area subject to the  summons, including a number of gas-fired power plants located within Maricopa and Pinal Counties.  In  November 1999, the Arizona Supreme Court issued a decision confirming that certain groundwater rights  may be available to the federal government and Indian tribes.  In addition, in September 2000, the Arizona  Supreme Court issued a decision affirming the lower court’s criteria for resolving groundwater claims.   Litigation on both of""
""these issues has continued in the trial court.  In December 2005, APS and other  parties filed a petition with the Arizona Supreme Court requesting interlocutory review of a September  2005 trial court order regarding procedures for determining whether groundwater pumping is affecting  surface water rights.  The Arizona Supreme Court denied the petition in May 2007, and the trial court is  now proceeding with implementation of its 2005 order.  No trial date concerning APS’s water rights claims""
""has been set in this matter. Table of Contents 26  At this time, the lower court proceedings in the Gila River adjudication are in the process of  determining the specific hydro-geologic testing protocols for determining which groundwater wells located  outside of the subflow zone of the Gila River should be subject to the adjudication court’s jurisdiction.   A  hearing to determine this jurisdictional test question was held in March 2018 in front of a special master,  and a draft decision based""
""on the evidence heard during that hearing was issued on May 17, 2018.  The  decision of the special master, which was finalized on November 14, 2018, accepts the proposed hydro- geologic testing protocols supported by APS and other industrial users of groundwater.  A further ruling  affirming this decision by the trial court judge overseeing the adjudication was issued on July 8, 2022.   Further proceedings have been initiated to determine the specific hydro-geologic testing protocols for""
""subflow depletion determinations.  The determinations made in this final stage of the proceedings may  ultimately govern the adjudication of rights for parties, such as APS, that rely on groundwater extraction to  support their industrial operations.  APS cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings.  Little Colorado River Adjudication.  APS has filed claims to water in the Little Colorado River  Watershed in Arizona in an action pending in the Apache County, Arizona, Superior Court, which""
""was  originally filed on September 5, 1985.  APS’s groundwater resource utilized at Cholla is within the  geographic area subject to the adjudication and, therefore, is potentially at issue in the case.  APS’s claims  dispute the court’s jurisdiction over its groundwater rights.  Alternatively, APS seeks confirmation of such  rights.  No trial or pretrial proceedings have been scheduled for adjudication of APS’s water right claims.   The adjudication court is currently conducting a trial of""
""federal reserved water right claims asserted by the  Hopi Tribe and by the United States as trustee for the Tribe.  In addition, the adjudication court has  established a schedule for consideration of separate federal reserved water right claims asserted by the  Navajo Nation and by the United States as trustee for the Nation.  There is no established timeframe within  which the adjudication court is expected to issue a final determination of water rights for the Hopi Tribe  and the Navajo""
""venture that was formed in 2014  with BHE U.S. Transmission LLC, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Energy Company.  TransCanyon is  pursuing independent electric transmission opportunities within the 11 U.S. states that comprise the  Western Interconnection, excluding opportunities related to transmission service that would otherwise be  Table of Contents 31  provided under the tariffs of the retail service territories of the venture partners’ utility affiliates.  The U.S.  DOE’s Grid""
""Deployment Office selected TransCanyon to enter into capacity contract negotiations for up to  25% of the Cross-Tie 500-kilovolt transmission line (“Cross-Tie”) as part of the Transmission Facilitation  Program.  The agreement was executed on June 12, 2024.  The proposed Cross-Tie project includes a 214- mile transmission line connecting Utah and Nevada that is intended to help improve grid reliability and  relieve congestion on other transmission lines. PNW Power’s investments also include""
""minority ownership positions in two wind farms operated  by Tenaska Energy, Inc. and Tenaska Energy Holdings, LLC, the 242 MW Clear Creek and the 250 MW  Nobles 2 wind farms.  Clear Creek achieved commercial operation in May 2020; however, in the fourth  quarter of 2022, PNW Power’s equity method investment was fully impaired.  Nobles 2 achieved  commercial operation in December 2020.  Both wind farms deliver power under long-term power purchase  agreements (“PPAs”).  PNW Power indirectly owns""
""9.9% of Clear Creek and 5.1% of Nobles 2. El Dorado   El Dorado is an Arizona corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pinnacle West.  El Dorado  owns debt investments and minority interests in several energy-related investments and Arizona  community-based ventures.  In particular, El Dorado has committed to and holds the following: • $25 million investment in the Energy Impact Partners fund, of which approximately $18.8  million has been funded as of December 31, 2024.  Energy Impact""
""other jurisdictions and having existing or potential strategic or economic ties to companies or  other interests in Arizona.   • $7.5 million investment in Westly Seed Fund, of which approximately $1.2 million has been  funded as of December 31, 2024.  Westly Seed Fund is focused on supporting entrepreneurs  involved in the energy, mobility, building, and industrial sectors. • Equity investment in SAI Advanced Power Solutions (“SAI”), a private corporation that  manufactures electrical""
""ACC, and state and local  governmental agencies.  These agencies regulate many aspects of APS’s utility operations, including safety  and performance, emissions, siting and construction of facilities, labor and employment, customer service  and the rates that APS can charge retail and wholesale customers.  Failure to comply can subject APS to,  among other things, fines and penalties.  For example, under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC can  impose penalties (approximately $1.2 million per""
""of the situation, until compliance is achieved.  The increased costs resulting  from penalties, a heightened level of scrutiny and implementation of plans to achieve compliance with  NRC requirements may adversely affect APS’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. APS is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, and changes in, or liabilities under,  existing or new laws or regulations may increase APS’s cost of operations or impact its business plans. APS is,""
""or may become, subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many  aspects of its present and future operations, including air emissions of conventional pollutants and GHGs,  water quality, discharges of wastewater and waste streams originating from fly ash and bottom ash  handling facilities, solid waste, hazardous waste, and coal combustion products, which consist of bottom  ash, fly ash, and air pollution control wastes.  These laws and regulations can result in increased""
""capital,  operating, and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant  emissions obligations.  They could also impact the overall business environment in Arizona and affect  APS’s customer and sales growth rates.  Additionally, these laws and regulations generally require APS to  obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, and other approvals.  If there is a  delay or failure to obtain any required environmental regulatory""
""approval, or if APS fails to obtain,  Table of Contents 34  maintain, or comply with any such approval, operations at affected facilities could be suspended or subject  to additional expenses.  In addition, failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations  could result in civil liability as a result of government enforcement actions or private claims or criminal  penalties.  Both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws  and""
""regulations.  APS cannot predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that  may arise. Environmental Clean Up.  APS has been named as a PRP for Superfund sites in Phoenix, Arizona,  and it could be named a PRP in the future for other environmental clean-up at sites identified by a  regulatory body.  APS cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures  related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up""
""costs.  There is also  uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all  PRPs. Coal Ash.  In December 2014, the EPA issued final regulations governing the handling and  disposal of CCR, which are generated as a result of burning coal and consist of, among other things, fly ash  and bottom ash.  The rule regulates CCR as a non-hazardous waste.  APS disposes of CCR in ash ponds  and dry storage areas.  To the extent the rule requires""
""the closure or modification of these CCR units,  modification or changes to the manner of closure of such units, or the construction of new CCR units  beyond what we currently anticipate, APS would incur significant additional costs for CCR disposal.  In  addition, the rule may also require corrective action to address releases from CCR disposal units or the  presence of CCR constituents within groundwater near CCR disposal units above certain regulatory  thresholds.  Ozone National Ambient Air""
""Quality Standards.  In 2015, the EPA finalized revisions to the  NAAQS for ozone, which set new, more stringent standards on emissions of nitrogen oxide, a precursor to  ozone, in an effort to protect human health and human welfare.  Depending on the final attainment  designations for the new standards and the state implementation requirements, APS may be required to  invest in new pollution control technologies and to generate emission offsets for new projects or facility  expansions located in""
""ozone nonattainment areas.  In addition, the EPA may in the future further increase  the stringency of various NAAQS, including for ozone or other pollutants, such as particulate matter.  With  regard to even more stringent NAAQS requirements, additional control measures and compliance costs  may become necessary for APS as well as its current and potential future customers. APS cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new  regulations seeking to protect""
""the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to it.  Revised or  additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions,  particularly if those costs incurred by APS are not fully recoverable from APS’s customers, could have a  material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.  Due to current or  potential future regulations or legislation coupled with trends in natural gas and coal prices, or""
""other clean  energy rules or initiatives, the economics or feasibility of continuing to own certain resources, particularly  coal facilities, may deteriorate, warranting early retirement of those plants, which may result in asset  impairments.  APS would seek recovery in rates for the book value of any remaining investments in the  plants as well as other costs related to early retirement but cannot predict whether it would obtain such  recovery.  Such regulations may also act as a deterrent to""
""future customer growth or create additional costs  for existing customers, potentially slowing APS’s customer growth.  APS faces potential financial risks resulting from climate change litigation and legislative and  regulatory efforts to limit GHG emissions, as well as physical and operational risks related to climate  effects. Table of Contents 35  Concern over climate change has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit CO2,  which is a major byproduct of the combustion""
""of fossil fuel, and other GHG emissions.   Potential Financial Risks — Greenhouse Gas Regulation, the Clean Power Plan and Potential  Litigation.  On April 25, 2024, the EPA issued new GHG emission standards for power plants.  These new  standards are focused on limiting power plant GHG emissions through control mechanisms that can be  implemented at individual power plant facilities.  The new regulations are currently being challenged in  federal court.  Additionally, the Trump administration""
""has stated that it intends to reverse or substantially  revise these standards.  See Item 1 - Environmental Matters - Climate Change for more information.  Depending on the outcome of carbon emission rulemaking under the Clean Air Act targeting new  and existing power plants, the utility industry may become subject to more stringent and expansive  regulations.  Depending on the means of compliance with federal emission performance standards, the  electric utility industry may be forced to incur""
""substantial costs necessary to achieve compliance.  In  addition, we anticipate that such regulations will be challenged in federal court prior to their  implementation.  Depending on the outcome of such judicial review, the utility industry may face  alternative efforts from private parties seeking to establish alternative GHG emission limitations from  power plants.  Alternative GHG emission limitations may arise from litigation under either federal or state  common laws or citizen suit""
""provisions of federal environmental statutes that attempt to force federal  agency rulemaking or impose direct facility emission limitations.  Such lawsuits may also seek damages  from harm alleged to have resulted from power plant GHG emissions. Physical and Operational Risks.  Weather extremes such as drought and high temperature  variations are common occurrences in the southwestern United States’ desert area, and these are risks that  APS considers in the normal course of business in the""
""engineering and construction of its electric system.   Large increases in ambient temperatures could require evaluation of certain materials used within its  system and may represent a greater challenge.  Limitations on water supplies necessary to operate electric  generation infrastructure could arise from prolonged drought and shortage declarations associated with key  surface water resources.  As part of conducting its business, APS recognizes that the southwestern United  States is""
""particularly susceptible to the risks posed by climate change, which over time is projected to  exacerbate high temperature extremes and prolong drought in the area where APS conducts its business. Co-owners of our jointly owned generation and transmission facilities may have unaligned goals and  positions due to the effects of legislation, regulations, economic conditions, or changes in our industry,  which could have a significant impact on our ability to continue operations of such""
""facilities. APS owns certain of its power plants and transmission facilities jointly with other owners, with  varying ownership interests in such facilities.  Changes in the nature of our industry and the economic  viability of certain plants and facilities, including impacts resulting from types and availability of other  resources, fuel costs, legislation, and regulation, together with timing considerations related to the  expiration of leases or other agreements for such facilities, could""
""may result in increased competition, which could  have a significant adverse impact on APS’s business and its results of operations. In November 2018, the ACC voted to re-examine the facilitation of a deregulated retail electric  market in Arizona.  On July 1 and July 2, 2019, ACC Staff issued a report and initial proposed draft rules  regarding possible modifications to the ACC’s retail electric competition rules.  On February 10, 2020, two  ACC Commissioners filed two sets of draft proposed""
""retail electric competition rules.  On February 12,  Table of Contents 36  2020, ACC Staff issued its second report regarding possible modifications to the ACC’s retail electric  competition rules.  During a July 15, 2020, ACC Staff meeting, the ACC Commissioners discussed the  possible development of a retail competition pilot program, but no action was taken.  The ACC continues  to discuss matters related to retail electric competition, including the potential for additional buy-through""
""APS’s business and results of  operations. OPERATIONAL RISKS APS’s results of operations can be adversely affected by various factors impacting demand for  electricity. Weather Conditions.  Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and affect  the price of energy commodities.  Electric power demand is generally a seasonal business.  In Arizona,  demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time.  As a  result, APS’s overall""
""operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis.  In addition, APS has  historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder.  As  a result, unusually mild weather could diminish APS’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash  flows. Apart from the impact on electricity demand, weather conditions related to prolonged high  temperatures or extreme heat events present operational challenges.  In the southwestern United""
""States,  where APS conducts its business, the effects of climate change are projected to increase the overall average  temperature, lead to more extreme temperature events, and exacerbate prolonged drought conditions  leading to the declining availability of water resources.  Extreme heat events and rising temperatures are  projected to reduce the generation capacity of thermal-power plants and decrease the efficiency of the  transmission grid.  These operational risks related to rising""
""temperatures and extreme heat events could  affect APS’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.   Higher temperatures may decrease the snowpack, which might result in lowered soil moisture and  an increased threat of wildfires.  Wildfires could threaten APS’s communities and electric transmission  lines and facilities.  Any damage caused as a result of wildfires could negatively impact APS’s financial  condition, results of operations, or cash flows.  In addition, the""
""decrease in snowpack can also lead to  reduced water supplies in the areas where APS relies upon non-renewable water resources to supply  cooling and process water for electricity generation.  Prolonged and extreme drought conditions can also  affect APS’s long-term ability to access the water resources necessary for thermal electricity generation  operations.  Reductions in the availability of water for power plant cooling could negatively impact APS’s  financial condition, results of""
""operations, or cash flows. Effects of Energy Conservation Measures and Distributed Energy Resources.  APS customers in  energy efficiency and conservation programs and other demand-side management efforts, which in turn  impact the demand for electricity.  APS must also meet certain distributed renewable energy requirements.   A portion of APS’s total renewable energy requirement must be met with an increasing percentage of  distributed renewable energy resources (generally, small-scale""
""renewable technologies located on  customers’ properties).  The distributed renewable energy requirement is 30% of the applicable RES  requirement for 2012 and subsequent years (APS requested a waiver of this requirement in the 2024 and  2025 RES Implementation Plans, which have not yet been approved by the ACC).  Customer participation  Table of Contents 37  in distributed renewable energy programs would result in lower demand since customers would be meeting  some of their own energy needs. In""
""addition to these rules and requirements, energy efficiency technologies and distributed energy  resources continue to evolve, which may have similar impacts on the demand for electricity.  Reduced  demand due to these energy efficiency requirements, distributed energy requirements and other emerging  technologies, unless substantially offset through ratemaking mechanisms, could have a material adverse  impact on APS’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Actual and""
""Projected Customer and Sales Growth.  APS’s actual sales growth, excluding weather- related variations, may differ from its projections as a result of numerous factors, such as economic  conditions, customer growth, the legal, regulatory, and business environment in Arizona, usage patterns  and energy conservation, slower than expected ramp-up of and/or fewer than expected data centers and  large manufacturing facilities, slower than expected commercial and industrial expansions, impacts of""
""energy efficiency programs and growth in DG, responses to retail price changes,  changes in regulatory  standards, and impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and  regulations.  Based on past experience, a 1% variation in our annual residential and small commercial and  industrial kWh sales projections under normal business conditions can result in increases or decreases in  annual net income of approximately $24 million, and a 1% variation in our annual""
""large commercial and  industrial kWh sales projections under normal business conditions can result in increases or decreases in  annual net income of approximately $6 million. Longer term, APS has been preparing for and can serve significant load growth from residential  and business customers.  On top of these existing growth trends, APS is also now receiving unprecedented  incremental requests for service from extra-large commercial energy users (over 25 MW) with very high  energy demands that""
""persist virtually around-the-clock.  These incremental requests for service by extra- large energy users far exceed available generation and transmission resource capacity in the Southwest  region for the foreseeable future.  APS is exploring available options for securing sufficient electric  generation and transmission to meet these projections of future customer needs; however, there are  difficulties in properly forecasting the demands of these extra-large customers due to factors such as""
""before we receive any potential  return.  APS is implementing strategies to attempt to reduce this risk; however, the difficulty in forecasting  these demands and the additional risk of these arrangements could lead to stranded costs and other effects  that could have material adverse impacts on APS’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash  flows.   The operation of power generation facilities and transmission systems involves risks that could result in  reduced output or""
""unscheduled outages or could otherwise significantly impact APS’s results of  operations. The operation of power generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves certain risks,  including the risk of breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption, and performance below expected  levels of output or efficiency.  Unscheduled outages, including extensions of scheduled outages due to  mechanical failures or other complications, occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of""
""wildfires could negatively affect APS’s results of operations. Wildfires have the potential to affect communities within APS’s service territory and the  surrounding areas, as well as APS’s vast network of electric transmission and distribution lines and  facilities.  The potential likelihood and severity of wildfires has increased due to many of the same weather  and climate change impacts existing in Arizona as those that led to catastrophic wildfires in other states.   The continued expansion""
""of the wildland urban interface has also increased wildfire risk to surrounding  communities.  Extreme weather events such as severe storms and strong wind gusts may also increase the  likelihood of a wildfire in our service territory.  APS has a Comprehensive Wildfire Mitigation Plan  (“CWMP”) that employs various strategies designed to prevent, mitigate, and respond to wildfire risks.   APS’s CWMP includes vegetation management and clearing protocols, operational measures and a public  safety""
""power shut off program (“PSPS”) on certain feeders, among other practices.  However, APS’s fire  mitigation efforts may be insufficient to prevent wildfires in APS’s expansive service territory and  surrounding areas and could result in claims alleging damages due to the use, non-use, timing, or  effectiveness of such measures.  In addition, APS could be sued regardless of fault for damages incurred as  a result of wildfires and may not be able to recover all or a substantial portion of any such""
""damages or costs  from insurance or through rates.  In addition, we could also experience credit rating downgrades,  reputational harm, volatility in the market for our common stock, and significant financial distress upon the  occurrence of a wildfire event.  Furthermore, any damage caused to our assets, loss of service to our  customers, or liability imposed as a result of wildfires could negatively impact APS’s financial condition,  results of operations, or cash flows. The inability to""
""successfully develop, acquire or operate generation resources to meet future resource  needs and load forecasts in accordance with reliability requirements and other new or evolving  standards and regulations could adversely impact our business. Potential changes in regulatory standards, impacts of new and existing laws and regulations,  including environmental laws and regulations, and the need to obtain various regulatory approvals create  uncertainty surrounding our current and future""
""generation portfolio.  The current regulatory standards,  laws, and regulations create strategic challenges as to the appropriate generation portfolio and fuel  diversification mix.  In addition, APS is required by the ACC to meet certain energy resource portfolio  requirements, including those related to renewables development and energy efficiency measures, in  addition to specific competitive resource procurement requirements.  The development and operation of  any generation facility is also""
""subject to many risks, including those related to financing, siting, permitting,  new and evolving technology, extreme weather events, workforce issues, cybersecurity attacks, supply  Table of Contents 39  chain constraints for critical spare parts, and the construction of sufficient transmission capacity to support  these facilities among others.  APS needs to develop or acquire new generation facilities, potentially  modernize existing facilities, and/or contract for additional capacity in""
""order to meet future resource needs  and load forecasts.  APS’s inability to do so could have a material adverse impact on our business and  results of operations. In expressing concerns about the environmental and climate-related impacts from continued  extraction, transportation, delivery and combustion of fossil fuels, environmental advocacy groups and  other third parties have in recent years undertaken greater efforts to oppose the permitting, construction,  and operation of fossil fuel""
""infrastructure projects.  These efforts may increase in scope and frequency  depending on a number of variables, including the future course of Federal environmental regulation and  the increasing financial resources devoted to these opposition activities.  APS cannot predict the effect that  any such opposition may have on our ability to develop, construct, and operate fossil fuel infrastructure  projects in the future.   In January 2020, APS announced its goal to provide 100% clean, carbon-""
""free electricity by 2050  with an intermediate 2030 target of achieving a resource mix that is 65% clean energy, with 45% of the  generation portfolio coming from renewable energy.  APS’s ability to successfully execute its clean energy  commitment is dependent upon a number of external factors, some of which include supportive national  and state energy policies, a supportive regulatory environment, sales and customer growth, the  development, deployment and advancement of clean energy""
""technologies, adequate supply chain for  generation resources, and continued access to capital markets. The lack of access to sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on APS’s  business and results of operations. Assured supplies of water are important for APS’s generating plants.  Water in the southwestern  United States is limited, and various parties have made conflicting claims regarding the right to access and  use such limited supplies of water.  Both groundwater""
""and surface water in areas important to the operation  of APS’s generating plants have been and are the subject of inquiries, claims and legal proceedings.  In  addition, the region in which APS’s power plants are located suffers from prolonged drought conditions,  which could potentially affect the plants’ water supplies.  Climate change is also projected to exacerbate  such drought conditions.  In addition, Colorado River water supplies for Arizona are subject to a Tier 1  shortage""
""declaration, which substantially limits the quantity of water available for the state.  APS’s  inability to access sufficient supplies of water, along with that of its customers, could have a material  adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We are subject to cybersecurity risks and risks of unauthorized access to our systems that could  adversely affect our business and financial condition. We operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of""
""inherent risks in the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental,  health, fuel supply, spent fuel disposal, regulatory and financial risks and the risk of terrorist attack that  could adversely affect our business and financial condition. APS has an ownership interest in and operates on behalf of a group of participants, Palo Verde,  which is the largest nuclear electric generating facility in the western United States.  Palo Verde constitutes  approximately 18% of""
""APS’s owned and leased generation capacity.  Palo Verde is subject to  environmental, health and financial risks, such as the ability to obtain adequate supplies of nuclear fuel; the  ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning;  potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; the costs of securing the facilities against  possible terrorist attacks; and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems.""
""APS maintains  nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its financial exposure to  some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage.   APS may be required under federal law to pay up to $144.9 million (but not more than $21.6 million per  year) of liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident not only at Palo Verde, but at any other nuclear power  plant in the United States.  In addition, APS is subject""
""financial condition.  A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the  world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit and  to promulgate new regulations that could require significant capital expenditures and/or increase operating  costs. Changes in technology could create challenges for APS’s existing business. Alternative energy technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption or emissions are  being developed and""
""commercialized, including renewable technologies such as photovoltaic (solar) cells,  customer-sited generation, energy storage (batteries) and efficiency technologies.  Advances in technology  and equipment/appliance efficiency could reduce the demand for supply from conventional generation,  including carbon-free nuclear generation, and increase the complexity of managing APS’s information  technology and power system operations, which could adversely affect APS’s business. Customer-sited""
""alternative energy technologies present challenges to APS’s operations due to  misalignment with APS’s existing operational needs.  When these resources lack “dispatchability” and  other elements of utility-side control, they are considered “unmanaged” resources.  The cumulative effect  of such unmanaged resources results in added complexity for APS’s system management. APS continues to pursue and implement advanced grid technologies, including transmission and  distribution system technologies""
""and digital meters enabling two-way communications between the utility  and its customers.  Many of the products and processes resulting from these and other alternative  technologies, including energy storage technologies, have not yet been widely used or tested on a long- term basis, and their use on large-scale systems is not as established or mature as APS’s existing  technologies and equipment.  The implementation of new and additional technologies adds complexity to  our information""
""Deployment of renewable energy technologies is expected to continue across the western states and  result in a larger portion of the overall energy production coming from these sources.  These trends, which  have benefited from historical and continuing government support for certain technologies, have the  potential to put downward pressure on wholesale power prices throughout the western states which could  make APS’s existing generating facilities less economical and impact their operational""
""We note that the ratings from rating agencies are not recommendations to buy,  sell or hold our securities and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Investment performance, changing interest rates, new rules or regulations and other economic, social,  and political factors could decrease the value of our benefit plan assets, nuclear decommissioning trust  funds and other special use funds or increase the valuation of our related obligations, resulting in""
""currently  estimated nuclear decommissioning costs in our regulated rates.  Any inability to fully recover these costs  in a timely manner could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations,  or cash flows. Pending or future federal or state legislative or regulatory activity or court proceedings could  increase the costs of providing medical insurance for our employees and retirees.  Any potential changes  and resulting cost impacts cannot be determined with""
""term debt. We may not have adequate insurance coverage for liabilities.             The operation of power generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves hazardous  activities.  We may become exposed to significant liabilities for which we may not have adequate  insurance coverage or risk mitigation.  Additionally, through our captive insurance cell, we take certain  insurance risk on our business, such as certain wildfire coverage, excess property insurance, and excess""
""creditors have been satisfied. The use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business could result in financial losses that  negatively impact our results of operations. APS’s operations include managing market risks related to commodity prices.  APS is exposed to  the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas, and coal to  the extent that unhedged positions exist.  We have established procedures to manage risks associated with""
""these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity derivatives, including exchange traded futures  and over-the-counter (“OTC”) forwards, options, and swaps.  As part of our overall risk management  program, we enter into derivative transactions to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and natural gas.   The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged  commodity.  To the extent that commodity markets are illiquid, we may not be able""
""positions in the energy futures markets, require different collateral or settlement positions, or increase  regulatory reporting over derivative positions.  Based on the provisions included in the Dodd-Frank Act  and the implementation of regulations, these changes could, among other things, impact our ability to  hedge commodity price and interest rate risk or increase the costs associated with our hedging programs. We are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by""
""with an “interested shareholder” (generally, any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of  our outstanding voting power, or any of our affiliates or associates who beneficially owned  10% or more of our outstanding voting power at any time during the prior three years) or any  affiliate or associate of an interested shareholder, unless specific conditions are met; • anti-greenmail provisions of Arizona law and our bylaws that prohibit us from purchasing  shares of our voting stock from""
""Palo Verde (b) 3  29.1 % Uranium Base Load   1,146  Total Nuclear           1,146  Steam:           Four Corners 4, 5 (c) 2  63 % Coal Base Load   970  Cholla 1,3  2   Coal Base Load   380  Total Steam           1,350  Combined Cycle:           Redhawk 2   Gas Load Following   1,136  West Phoenix 5   Gas Load Following   874  Total Combined Cycle           2,010  Combustion Turbine:           Ocotillo 7   Gas Peaking   630  Saguaro 3   Gas Peaking   189  Douglas 1   Oil Peaking   18  Sundance 10""
""Gas Peaking   430  West Phoenix 2   Gas Peaking   114  Yucca 1, 2, 3 3   Gas Peaking   93  Yucca 4 1   Oil Peaking   54  Yucca 5, 6 2   Gas Peaking   90  Total Combustion Turbine           1,618  Solar: (d)           Cotton Center 1   Solar As Available   17  Hyder I 1   Solar As Available   17  Paloma 1   Solar As Available   17  Chino Valley 1   Solar As Available   20  Gila Bend 1 Solar As Available   36  Hyder II 1   Solar As Available   14  Foothills 1   Solar As Available   38  Luke AFB 1""
""Solar As Available   11  Desert Star 1 Solar As Available   10  Red Rock 1 Solar As Available   44  Agave Solar 1 Solar As Available   150  APS Owned Distributed Energy     Solar As Available   38  Multiple facilities     Solar As Available   4  Total Solar           416  Total Capacity           6,540  Table of Contents 50  (a) 100% unless otherwise noted. (b) APS’s 29.1% ownership in Palo Verde includes leased interests and is the largest capacity interest of all the  participants.  See""
""“Business of Arizona Public Service Company — Energy Sources and Resource Planning  — Generation Facilities — Nuclear” in Item 1 for details regarding leased interests in Palo Verde.  The other  participants are Salt River Project, SCE, El Paso Electric Company, Public Service Company of New Mexico,  Southern California Public Power Authority, and Los Angeles Department of Water and Power.  (c) The other participants are Salt River Project (10%), Public Service Company of New Mexico (13%),""
""Tucson  Electric Power Company (7%) and NTEC (7%).  The plant is operated by APS.  (d) See “Business of Arizona Public Service Company — Energy Sources and Resource Planning — Energy  Storage” above for details related to APS’s energy storage facilities and agreements. See “Business of Arizona Public Service Company — Environmental Matters” in Item 1 with  respect to matters having a possible impact on the operation of certain of APS’s generating facilities.   See “Business of Arizona Public""
""(Weighted- Average) Arizona Nuclear Power Project 500kV System  33.3 % Navajo Southern System  24.7 % Palo Verde — Yuma 500kV System  25.5 % Four Corners Switchyards  58.0 % Phoenix — Mead System  17.1 % Palo Verde — Rudd 500kV System  50.0 % Morgan — Pinnacle Peak System  63.2 % Round Valley System  50.0 % Palo Verde — Morgan System  87.5 % Hassayampa — North Gila System  80.0 % Cholla 500kV Switchyard  85.7 % Saguaro 500kV Switchyard  60.0 % Kyrene — Knox System  50.0 % Agua Fria Switchyard""
""10.0 %   Expansion.  Each year, APS prepares and files with the ACC a Ten-Year Transmission Plan.  In  APS’s 2025 Ten-Year Plan, APS projects it will develop 184 miles of new transmission lines over the next  10 years.  Additionally, APS plans to upgrade 687 miles of existing transmission lines over the same  Table of Contents 51  horizon.  The 2025 Ten-Year Plan includes a 28-mile 500kV line from the Jojoba substation to the Rudd  substation.  The purpose of this 500kV line project is to bring""
""capability to the Metro Phoenix area, and improve access to a  diverse mix of resources from the Four Corners region throughout the Southwest.  The 2025 Ten-Year Plan  includes numerous projects with the purpose to interconnect new renewable energy resources to the  transmission system. Plant and Transmission Line Leases and Rights-of-Way on Indian Lands   The Navajo Plant and Four Corners are located on land held under leases from the Navajo Nation  and also under rights-of-way from the federal""
""government.  The Navajo Plant ceased operations in  November 2019.  The co-owners and the Navajo Nation executed a lease extension on November 29, 2017,  that allows for decommissioning activities to begin after the plant ceased operations.  APS, on behalf of the Four Corners participants, negotiated amendments to the Four Corners  facility lease with the Navajo Nation, which extends the Four Corners leasehold interest from 2016 to  2041.  See “Business of Arizona Public Service Company — Energy""
""Sources and Resource Planning —  Generation Facilities — Coal-Fueled Generating Facilities — Four Corners” in Item 1 for additional  information about the Four Corners right-of-way and lease matters.    Certain portions of our transmission lines are located on Indian lands pursuant to rights-of-way that  are effective for specified periods.  Some of these rights-of-way have expired and our renewal applications  have not yet been acted upon by the appropriate Indian tribes or federal agencies.""
""Service Company — Environmental Matters” in Item 1 with  regard to pending or threatened litigation and other disputes. See Note 3 for ACC and FERC-related matters. See Note 10 for information regarding environmental matters, Superfund–related matters and other  disputes.  ITEM 4.  MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES   Not applicable. Table of Contents 52  INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS Pinnacle West’s executive officers are elected no less often than annually and may be removed by  the Board of""
""Counsel of Pinnacle West and APS 2018-2021 Jacob Tetlow 52 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of APS 2024-Present Executive Vice President, Operations of APS 2021-2024 Senior Vice President, Non-Nuclear Operations of APS 2020-2021 Vice President, Transmission and Distributions Operations of APS 2017-2020 Table of Contents  53  (a)  On December 12, 2024, Pinnacle West announced that Jeffrey B. Guldner will retire from his position as  Chairman of the Board, President, Chief""
""holding company based in Phoenix, Arizona  with consolidated assets of approximately $26 billion.  Since 1886, Pinnacle West and our affiliates have  provided energy and energy-related products to people and businesses throughout Arizona.  Pinnacle West derives essentially all of our revenues and earnings from our principal subsidiary,  APS.  APS is Arizona’s largest and longest-serving electric company that generates safe, affordable and  reliable electricity for approximately 1.4 million""
""retail customers in 11 of Arizona’s 15 counties.  APS is  also the operator and co-owner of Palo Verde — a primary source of electricity for the southwestern  United States.    Strategic Overview  Our strategy is to create a sustainable energy future for Arizona that delivers shareholder value and  shared value by serving our customers with reliable, affordable, and clean energy. Customer-Focused APS’s focus remains on its customers and the communities it serves.  Accordingly, it is APS’s goal""
""continuing to communicate with customers in their  preferred channels about topics that matter most to them, such as reliability, energy-efficiency, financial  assistance, the environment, and programs that enable them to design their own personalized energy  experience.  Finally, APS continues to focus on employee learning, training, tools, and resources to ensure  all employees understand their role in APS customers’ experiences. Additionally, APS has implemented a variety of financial""
""assistance programs to support customers  struggling to pay their energy bills.  Among these assistance programs are discounts for qualified limited- income customers, including a new tier with larger discounts for APS’s lowest income customers added in  the second quarter of 2024 and other non-income-based assistance programs, such as flexible payment  arrangements and emergency utility bill assistance.  To ensure our most vulnerable customers are  connected to these programs, we train and""
""partner with more than one hundred community action agencies  across our service territory. Reliable While our energy mix evolves, APS’s commitment to deliver reliable service to our customers  remains.  APS is managing through significant growth in the Phoenix metropolitan area while experiencing  supply chain issues similar to those experienced in other industries.   Planned investments will support operating and maintaining the grid, updating technology,  accommodating customer growth, and""
""enabling more renewable energy resources.  To prioritize reliability  and meet substantial growth in customer energy needs, APS has developed a future-focused, strategic  transmission plan (the “Ten-Year Transmission Plan”).  The Ten-Year Transmission Plan includes five  critical transmission projects that comprise the APS strategic transmission portfolio, which represent a  significant upgrade to our transmission system.  These five projects, along with other projects included in  the Ten-Year""
""Transmission Plan, will support growing energy needs, strengthen reliability, and allow for  the connection of new resources. Our advanced distribution management system allows operators to locate outages and control line  devices remotely and helps them coordinate more closely with field crews to safely maintain an  increasingly dynamic grid.  The system will also integrate a new meter data management system that will  increase grid visibility and give customers access to more of their energy""
""usage data.  Wildfire safety remains a critical focus for APS and other utilities.  We have increased investment  in fire mitigation efforts to clear defensible space around our infrastructure, continue ongoing system  upgrades, build partnerships with government entities and first responders and educate customers and  communities.  We also increased spend on mitigating the risk associated with trees that could cause  hazards, resulting in more of these trees being removed before they could""
""cause outages or wildfires.   These programs contribute to customer reliability, responsible forest management and safe communities.   With recent wildfire events in Hawaii, California, and across North America, we have been devoting and  will continue to devote substantial efforts to analyzing and developing enhancements to our systems and  processes to mitigate fire risk within our service territory and communities, including by hardening our  infrastructure, deploying new technologies where""
""appropriate, increasing our awareness, implementing  operational changes, and enhancing our wildfire response capabilities.  APS completed implementation of  fire modelling software that we are utilizing to more surgically identify and calculate risk and target future  Table of Contents  58  system improvement investments such as fire-resistant pole wrapping, wood to steel pole conversions, and  additional remote-controllable field devices like reclosers and switches.  In 2024, APS began""
""continuing education outreach to customers and  communities that may potentially be impacted by the PSPS program.  APS continues to evaluate policy  and regulatory options, as well as insurance programs, to mitigate the impact of wildfire events. For example, on August 14, 2024, APS filed a request with the ACC for a deferral order that would  authorize APS to defer, for future recovery in rates, operations and maintenance expenses associated with  wildfire management, including increased""
""insurance costs.  APS cannot predict the outcome of this matter.   See Note 3 for more information.   Additionally, APS was selected by the DOE’s Grid Deployment Office (“GDO”) to receive up to  $70 million in federal money for fire mitigation and grid infrastructure projects.  This funding is part of the  GDO’s Grid Resilience and Innovation Partnership Program and is contingent on APS negotiating and  executing final grant agreements with GDO. Maintaining reliability and affordability for""
""customers during the clean energy transition is  fundamental to APS’s strategy.  Dispatchable natural gas generators provide energy during times when  intermittent resources, such as solar and wind, are insufficient to meet customer demand.  In addition to  the previously added natural gas units at the modernized Ocotillo Power Plant in 2019 and efficiency  improvements to gas units at the Redhawk, Sundance, and West Phoenix Power Plants in 2024, APS has  contracted for two simple cycle""
""combustion turbines (approximately 90 MW in total) at Sundance, which  are expected to be in service in 2026, and eight simple cycle combustion turbines (approximately 397 MW  in total) at Redhawk, which are expected to be in service in 2028.  APS continues to evaluate and pursue  options for reliably serving growing customer energy needs and demand. In October 2021, APS announced plans to evaluate regional market solutions as part of the Western  Markets Exploratory Group (“WMEG”).  As a member""
""of WMEG, APS explored the potential for a staged  approach to new market services, including day-ahead energy sales, transmission system expansion, and  other power supply and grid solutions consistent with existing regulations and known and expected market  design.  APS utilizes the work done by WMEG to help identify market solutions that can help achieve  carbon reduction goals while supporting reliable, affordable service for customers. APS went live with a new Energy Management System""
""(“EMS”) in April 2024.  APS expects the  new EMS to provide a better foundation which will improve future integration of the renewable and energy  storage assets into APS’s generation resource portfolio, allowing APS to maximize the flexibility of its  resources and fully engage in the Western Energy Imbalance Market (“WEIM”).  APS also believes it will  better position APS to participate in market opportunities that develop over the next decade. APS’s key elements to delivering reliable power""
""making. There are also external opportunities under APS’s customer affordability initiative, such as APS’s  participation in the WEIM.  WEIM continues to be a tool for creating savings for APS’s customers from  the real-time, voluntary market.  APS continues to expect that its participation in WEIM will lower its fuel  and purchased-power costs, improve situational awareness for system operations in the Western  Interconnection power grid, and improve integration of APS’s renewable resources.""
""APS participated in  market design and tariff development of Markets+, a day-ahead and real-time market offering from  Southwest Power Pool (“SPP”).  The Markets+ tariff was filed with FERC on March 29, 2024 and was  approved on January 16, 2025.  APS announced a market decision to pursue participation in SPP  Markets+.  In addition, APS is participating in the Western Resource Adequacy Program administered by  Western Power Pool and is transitioning to full binding participation as early as""
""summer 2027.  These  regional efforts are driven by the objectives of reducing customer cost and improving reliability. In terms of generation affordability, every three years, APS performs a comprehensive study, called  an Integrated Resource Plan (“IRP”), to identify what resources will be necessary to safely and reliably  meet the demand and energy needs of its customers over the next 15 years.  In November 2023, APS  released its latest IRP, which identified forecasted customer demand and""
""energy needs growing at an  unprecedented rate.  In developing the IRP, APS considered how factors such as forecasted economic  growth, impacts from weather, and new resource technology availability impact the amount and type of  resources required to reliably meet customer needs.  These factors, among others, were used to develop a  plan that identified a balanced mix of diverse energy generating resources to reliably serve customers’  future energy needs in the most affordable and sustainable""
""manner possible.  To help ensure competitive  costs for resources procured by APS, APS regularly issues competitive bid solicitations through the  ASRFP process, with the most recent ASRFPs being issued in 2022, 2023, and 2024.  These ASRFPs are  open to bids for all resource types, including customer-scale (behind the meter) and utility-scale (in front of  the meter) resources.  Through the ASRFP process, APS has found that clean resources like wind, solar,  and energy storage technology, are""
""important elements of a least cost portfolio.  During the clean energy  transition, dispatchable resources will play a vital role in maintaining grid reliability by serving as a back- up to intermittent energy resources when output is insufficient to meet customer needs.  Over the long  term, each resource in a balanced and diverse portfolio is expected to provide complementary value and  contribute to sustained delivery of reliable electric service.   In addition to managing the cost of""
""electricity generation, APS has continued building upon  existing cost management efforts, including a customer affordability initiative launched in 2019.  The  initiative was implemented company-wide to thoughtfully and deliberately assess our business processes  Table of Contents  60  and organizational approaches to completing high-value work and achieving internal efficiencies.  APS  continues to drive this initiative by identifying opportunities to streamline its business processes,""
""mitigate  cost increases, increase employee retention, and improve customer satisfaction. Clean Energy Commitment We are committed to doing our part to build a clean and carbon-free future.  As Arizona stewards,  we do what is right for the people and prosperity of Arizona.  Our vision is to create a sustainable energy  future for Arizona by providing reliable, affordable, and clean energy to our customers.  We can  accomplish our vision by collaborating with customers, communities, employees,""
""policymakers,  shareholders, and other stakeholders.  Our clean energy commitment is based on sound science and  supports continued growth and economic development while maintaining reliability and affordable prices  for APS’s customers. APS’s clean energy commitment consists of three parts:  • A 2050 goal to provide 100% clean, carbon-free electricity; • A 2030 target to achieve a resource mix that is 65% clean energy, with 45% of the generation  portfolio coming from renewable energy; and • A""
""plan to exit from coal-fired generation by 2031. APS’s ability to successfully execute its clean energy commitment depends upon a number of  important external factors, including a supportive regulatory environment, sales and customer growth,  development of clean energy technologies, and continued access to capital markets, among others. 2050 Goal: 100% Clean, Carbon-Free Electricity.  Achieving a fully clean, carbon-free energy  mix by 2050 is our aspiration.  Achieving this 2050 goal will""
""require, among other things, innovative  thinking, emergent clean energy and storage technologies, upgrades and expansions to the grid, and  supportive public policy. 2030 Goal: 65% Clean Energy.  APS has an energy mix that is already more than 50% clean and  plans to continue to add more renewables and energy storage.  By building on those plans, APS intends to  attain an energy mix that is 65% clean by 2030, with 45% of APS’s generation portfolio coming from  renewable energy.  “Clean” is""
""measured as percent of energy mix, which includes all carbon-free resources  like nuclear, renewables, and demand-side management.  “Renewable” energy includes generation  resources such as solar, wind, and biomass, and is measured in accordance with the ACC Renewable  Energy Standard as a percentage of retail sales.  This target will serve as a checkpoint for our resource  planning, investment strategy, and customer affordability efforts as APS moves toward a 100% clean,  carbon-free energy mix""
""by 2050. 2031 Goal: Exit Coal-Fired Generation.  The plan to exit coal-fired generation by 2031 will  require APS to stop relying on coal-generation at Four Corners.  APS has permanently retired more than  1,000 MW of coal-fired electric generating capacity.  These closures and other measures taken by APS  have resulted in annual carbon emissions that were 36% lower in 2023 compared to 2005.  In addition,  APS has committed to end the use of coal at its remaining Cholla units during 2025. In""
""year-round, subject to market  conditions as well as planned maintenance outages and unplanned outages.  As of the date of this report,  APS has elected not to begin seasonal operation due to market conditions. Renewables.  APS’s IRP identifies a diverse mix of resources adequate to maintain grid reliability  while serving increasing future customer energy needs.  Our IRP shows that renewable and clean resources  are an important part of a reliable, cost effective portfolio.  APS seeks market-""
""based pricing of procured  resources through regular solicitation of project bids using its competitive ASRFP process. APS has a diverse portfolio of existing and planned resources, including solar, wind, energy  storage, nuclear, geothermal, biomass and biogas, that supports our commitment to clean energy.  This  commitment is already strengthened by Palo Verde, one of the nation’s largest carbon-free, clean energy  resources, which provides the foundation for reliable and affordable service""
""for APS customers.  APS’s  longer-term clean energy strategy includes pursuing the right mix of purchased power contracts for new  resources, procurement of new resources to be owned by APS, and the ongoing development of distributed  energy resources.  Maintaining a balanced and diverse portfolio of resources will ensure continued reliable  service to our customers in the most affordable manner possible. APS uses competitive ASRFPs to pursue market-priced resources that meet its system needs""
""reliability and customer  affordability through the ASRFP process.  Agreements for the development and completion of future  resources are subject to various conditions, including successful siting, permitting and interconnection to  the electric grid. On June 30, 2023, APS issued an ASRFP (the “2023 ASRFP”) pursuant to which APS procured  nearly 7,300 MW of new resources to be in service from 2026 to 2028. On November 20, 2024, APS issued an ASRFP (the “2024 ASRFP”) seeking 2,000 MW of""
""renewable energy portfolio that are in  operation, planned or under development as of the date of this report.  Agreements for the development and  completion of future resources are subject to various conditions, including successful siting, permitting,  and interconnection of the projects to the electric grid.  Net Capacity in Operation (MW) Net Capacity Planned / Under Development (MW) Total APS Owned: Solar 416   168  PPAs Renewables: Solar 585   3,321  Wind 853   500  Geothermal 10   —""
""Biomass 14   —  Biogas 3   —  Total PPAs   1,465    3,821  Total Distributed Energy: Solar (a)   1,727    63 (b) Total Renewable Portfolio   3,608    4,052  (a)  Includes rooftop solar facilities owned by third parties.  DG is produced in direct current and is  converted to alternating current for reporting purposes. (b)  Applications received by APS that are not yet installed and online. Energy Storage.  APS deploys a number of advanced technologies on its system, including energy  storage.""
""Energy storage provides capacity, improves power quality, can be utilized for system regulation  and, in certain circumstances, be used to defer certain traditional infrastructure investments.  Energy  storage also aids in integrating renewable generation by storing excess energy when system demand is low  and renewable production is high and then releasing the stored energy during peak demand hours later in  the day and after sunset.  APS is utilizing grid-scale energy storage projects to meet""
""customer reliability  requirements, increase renewable utilization, and to further our understanding of how storage works with  other advanced technologies and the grid.   The following table summarizes the resources in APS’s energy storage portfolio that are in  operation, planned or under development as of the date of this report.  Agreements for the development and  completion of future resources are subject to various conditions. Net Capacity in  Operation (MW) Net Capacity Planned /  Under""
""Development (MW) APS Owned Energy Storage 201 (a) 150 PPAs Energy Storage 405   5,087  Customer-Sited Energy Storage 62 51 Total Energy Storage Portfolio 668   5,288  (a)  Includes 0.3 MW of APS-owned customer-sited energy storage. Palo Verde.  Palo Verde, one of the nation’s largest carbon-free, clean energy resources, will  continue to be a foundational part of APS’s resource portfolio.  Palo Verde is not just the cornerstone of  our current clean energy mix; it also is a significant provider""
""of clean energy to the southwestern United  States.  The plant is a critical asset to the Southwest, generating more than 32 million MWh annually –  Table of Contents  63  enough power for roughly 3.4 million households, or approximately 8.5 million people.  Its continued  operation is important to a carbon-free and clean energy future for Arizona and the region, as a reliable,  continuous, affordable resource and as a large contributor to the local economy. Developing Clean Energy Technologies""
""New Nuclear Generation APS, along with other Arizona electric utilities, is exploring new nuclear generation to provide  around-the-clock carbon-free energy to meet rising energy demands in Arizona.  APS has been monitoring  emerging nuclear technologies, such as small modular nuclear reactors (“SMRs”).  SMRs are typically  designed to generate 300 MW or less of energy per unit compared to, for example, the 1,400 MW per unit  generated at Palo Verde.  The utilities have applied for a grant from""
""the DOE to begin preliminary  exploration of a potential site for additional nuclear energy for Arizona.  The grant could support a three- year site selection process and possible preparation of an early site permit application to NRC.  Electric Vehicles  As a part of the statewide transportation electrification plan (“TE Plan”) adopted in 2021, the ACC  approved a target of 450,000 light-duty electric vehicles (“EVs”) in APS’s service territory by 2030.   APS’s Take Charge AZ (“TCAZ”) program""
""has helped to deploy Level 2 EV charging stations on  customer properties for fleet, public, and workplace EV charging.  As of December 31, 2024, APS has  installed 829 energized Level 2 charging ports at 197 customer locations.  Additionally, APS has energized  direct current fast charging stations that are owned and operated by APS at five locations in Arizona:  Sedona, Prescott, Globe, Show Low, and Payson.  Effective December 12, 2023, the TCAZ program was  discontinued by the ACC.  As part""
""of that decision, APS was permitted to complete certain projects that  were in process as of December 12, 2023. Additionally, as part of APS’s DSM Implementation Plan, APS launched the EV Charging  Demand Management Pilot to proactively address the growing electric demand from charging as EVs  become more widely adopted.  The EV programs in the DSM Implementation Plan include APS  SmartCharge (an EV data gathering program), Fleet Advisory Services, and a $100 rebate to home builders  for new""
""homes to be built EV-ready with 240V receptacle.  APS previously offered a $250 residential  rebate to customers that purchased a qualifying home Level 2 charger.  Effective December 12, 2023, APS  discontinued this rebate per the ACC decision.  See the discussion above.  APS filed its 2024 DSM Implementation Plan on November 30, 2023.  The 2024 DSM  Implementation Plan includes APS’s 2024 TE Plan and, among other things, proposes two new programs  that were initially proposed in the 2023 DSM""
""Implementation Plan: an expanded residential EV Managed  Charging program and a Commercial EV Make-Ready Program.  On April 26, 2024, APS filed an  amended 2024 DSM Implementation Plan.  The amended 2024 DSM Implementation Plan includes an  updated budget of $90.9 million to reflect removal of incentive funds for the Level 2 Smart Charger rebate  within the EV Charging Demand Management Pilot, an update on the performance incentive calculation,  and the withdrawal of tranches two and three of""
""the residential battery pilot.  The amended 2024 DSM Plan  is still pending ACC review and approval.  APS will not file a 2025 DSM Implementation Plan, pending  ACC review of the amended 2024 DSM Implementation Plan.  APS cannot predict the outcome of this  proceeding. Table of Contents  64  Carbon Capture Carbon Capture Utilization and Storage (“CCUS”) technologies can isolate CO2 and either  sequester it permanently in geologic formations or convert it for use in products.  Currently, almost""
""all  existing fossil fuel generators do not control carbon emissions the way they control emissions of other air  pollutants such as sulfur dioxide or oxides of nitrogen.  CCUS technologies are still in the demonstration  phase and while they show promise, they are still being tested in real-world conditions.  These technologies  could offer the potential to keep in operation existing generators that otherwise would need to be retired.   APS will continue to monitor this emerging technology.""
""Sustainability Practices In 2020, in support of our clean energy commitment and the growing focus on sustainability within  our organization, we increased our focus on sustainability by dedicating a new Sustainability Department at  Pinnacle West responsible for integrating responsible business practices into the everyday work of the  Company. In 2024, the Sustainability Department engaged an external consultant and leveraged input from  employees, large customers, limited-income advocates,""
""economic development groups, tribes, nonprofits,  environmental non-governmental organizations, residential customers, and other stakeholders to identify  and assess the sustainability issues that matter most.  In total, 15 Priority Sustainability Issues (“PSIs”)  were identified and prioritized.  The top five issues that were prioritized by stakeholders are as follows:  energy affordability, electric reliability, clean energy and decarbonization, workforce development, and  climate resilience""
""and adaptation.  Understanding the sustainability priorities of internal and external  stakeholders can help companies improve performance, identify risks and opportunities, and refine  sustainability strategy.  Finally, the Company maintains an annual Corporate Responsibility Report on the Pinnacle West  website (www.pinnaclewest.com/corporate-responsibility).  The report provides information related to the  Company’s sustainability practices and performance.  The information on Pinnacle West’s""
""an effective fair value rate of return of 4.36%, (v) 12 months of post-test year plant and the inclusion of the  Four Corners Effluent Limitations Guideline (“ELG”) project, (vi) the approval of APS’s System  Reliability Benefit (“SRB”) proposal with certain procedural and other modifications, (vii) no additional  Coal Community Transition (“CCT”) funding, (viii) a 5.0% return on the prepaid pension asset and a  return of 5.35% on the OPEB liability, and (ix) no disallowances on APS’s coal""
""contracts.   The 2022 Rate Case ROO also recommended a number of changes to existing adjustors, including  (i) the approval of modified DSM performance incentives and the requested DSM transfer to base rates, (ii)  the retention of $1.9 million of Renewable Energy Adjustment Charge (“REAC”) in the adjustor rather  than base rates, (iii) a partial transfer of $27.1 million of LFCR funds to base rates, and (iv) the adoption of  an increase in the annual PSA cap to $0.006/kWh.   On February 22,""
""employment benefit liability in rate base, (vi) an adjustment to generation maintenance and outage expense   to reflect a more reasonable level of test year costs, (vii) approval of the SRB mechanism with  modifications to customer notifications, procedural timelines and the inclusion of any qualifying  technology and fuel source bid received through an ASRFP, and (viii) recovery of all DSM costs through  the DSM Adjustment Charge (“DSMAC”) rather than through base rates. The ACC’s decision""
""solar customers, the SRB, and CCT  funding.  On April 15, 2024, the ACC granted, in part, the rehearing applications of the Attorney General,  Arizona Solar Energy Industries Association, Solar Energy Industries Association, and Vote Solar  specifically to review whether the GAC rate is just and reasonable, including whether it should be higher or  lower, whether the GAC rate constitutes a discriminatory fee to solar customers, and whether omission of a  GAC charge is discriminatory to non-solar""
""customers.  All other applications for rehearing were denied.     A limited rehearing was held October 28 through November 1.  Following the limited rehearing, an  Administrative Law Judge issued a ROO (the “Limited Rehearing ROO”) on December 3, 2024.  The  Limited Rehearing ROO recommended affirming the GAC as just and reasonable and that the GAC is not  discriminatory to solar customers and the absence of a GAC is not discriminatory to non-solar customers.   On December 17, 2024, the ACC""
""approved the Limited Rehearing ROO with an amendment that requires  Table of Contents  66  APS in its next rate case to propose a revenue allocation based on a site-load cost of service study in order  to bring further parity in revenue collection between solar and non-solar customers.  SEIA, AriSEIA, Vote  Solar, the Arizona Attorney General, and two individual customers have filed requests for rehearing of the  Commission’s December 17, 2024 decision on the rehearing.  The Commission has taken""
""part the ACC’s decision in the 2019 Rate Case, remanding the issue to the ACC for further  proceedings.  On June 14, 2023, APS and the ACC Legal Division filed a joint resolution with the ACC to  allow recovery of $215.5 million in costs related to the installation of the Four Corners selective catalytic  reduction (“SCR”) project, a reversal of the 20 basis points reduction to APS’s return on equity from 8.9%  to 8.7% as a result of the 2019 Rate Case decision, and recovery of $59.6 million in""
""request with the ACC for a deferral order associated with  unrecovered book value and closure costs of the remaining Cholla units.  This order would authorize APS  to defer, for future recovery in rates, both the expenses necessary to close and decommission coal-fired  power plant infrastructure at Cholla, including legally required site environmental remediation, CCR  corrective actions, the closure of CCR management facilities, and any unrecovered plant investment and  operating costs incurred""
""through and after April 2025.  APS cannot predict the outcome of this matter. Fire Mitigation On August 14, 2024, APS filed a request with the ACC for a deferral order that would authorize  APS to defer, for future recovery in rates, operations and maintenance expenses associated with wildfire  management, including increased insurance costs.  APS cannot predict the outcome of this matter. See Note 3 for information regarding additional regulatory matters. Captive Insurance Cell  Pinnacle West""
""may hold  investment assets in cash, cash equivalents, and equity and fixed income instruments.  Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (“IRA”) significantly expands the availability of tax credits  for investments in clean energy generation technologies and energy storage.  Key provisions that are  relevant to APS’s clean energy commitment include (i) an extension of tax credits for solar and wind  generation, including a new option for solar investments to claim a""
""Production Tax Credit (“PTC”) in lieu  of the Investment Tax Credit (“ITC”) beginning in 2022; (ii) expansion of the ITC to cover stand-alone  energy storage technology beginning in 2023; (iii) introduction of technology neutral clean energy ITCs  and PTCs beginning in 2025; and (iv) introduction of a new PTC for nuclear energy produced by existing  nuclear energy plants, available from 2024 through 2032.  The Internal Revenue Service and U.S. Treasury  Department have issued preliminary""
""guidance related to various provisions of the IRA that have enabled  APS to claim credits related to its solar and energy storage investments.  The Company continues to await  regulations and other guidance, including with respect to the nuclear PTC, which will provide additional  details and clarifications regarding how the Company may be able to claim IRA tax credits.  See Note 4 for  more information.  The prospects for federal tax reform, including potential modification or repeal of the IRA""
""investments, were not included in the BCE Sale  and were instead transferred to PNW Power, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pinnacle West. PNW Power’s investments include TransCanyon, a 50/50 joint venture that was formed in 2014  with BHE U.S. Transmission LLC, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Energy Company.  TransCanyon is  pursuing independent electric transmission opportunities within the 11 U.S. states that comprise the  Western Interconnection, excluding opportunities related to""
""transmission service that would otherwise be  provided under the tariffs of the retail service territories of the venture partners’ utility affiliates.  The U.S.  Department of Energy’s Grid Deployment Office selected TransCanyon to enter into capacity contract  negotiations for up to 25% of the Cross-Tie 500-kilovolt transmission line (“Cross-Tie”) as part of the  Transmission Facilitation Program.  The agreement was executed on June 12, 2024.  The proposed Cross- Tie project includes a""
""214-mile transmission line connecting Utah and Nevada that is intended to help  improve grid reliability and relieve congestion on other transmission lines. PNW Power’s investments also include minority ownership positions in two wind farms operated  by Tenaska Energy, Inc. and Tenaska Energy Holdings, LLC, the 242 MW Clear Creek and the 250 MW  Nobles 2 wind farms.  Clear Creek achieved commercial operation in May 2020; however, in the fourth  quarter of 2022, PNW Power’s equity method""
""investment was fully impaired.  Nobles 2 achieved  commercial operation in December 2020.  Both wind farms deliver power under long-term PPAs.  PNW  Power indirectly owns 9.9% of Clear Creek and 5.1% of Nobles 2. El Dorado.  El Dorado is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pinnacle West.  El Dorado owns debt  investments and minority interests in several energy-related investments and Arizona community-based  ventures.  In particular, El Dorado has committed to the following: • $25 million investment""
""in the Energy Impact Partners fund, of which approximately $18.8  million has been funded as of December 31, 2024.  Energy Impact Partners is an organization  that focuses on fostering innovation and supporting the transformation of the utility industry.   • $25 million investment in AZ-VC (formerly invisionAZ Fund), of which approximately $11.8  million has been funded as of December 31, 2024.  AZ-VC is a fund focused on analyzing,  investing, managing, and otherwise dealing with investments in""
""2024, retail electric revenues comprised  approximately 92% of our total operating revenues.  Our electric operating revenues are affected by  customer growth or decline, variations in weather from period to period, customer mix, average usage per  customer and the impacts of energy efficiency programs, distributed energy additions, electricity rates and  tariffs, the recovery of PSA deferrals and the operation of other recovery mechanisms.  These revenue  transactions are affected by the""
""availability of excess generation or other energy resources and wholesale  market conditions, including competition, demand, and prices.   Actual and Projected Customer and Sales Growth.  Retail customers in APS’s service territory  increased 2.1% for the year ended December 31, 2024, compared with the prior-year period.  For the three  years through 2024, APS’s customer growth averaged 2.1% per year.  We currently project annual  customer growth to be 1.5% to 2.5% for 2025 and the average""
""annual growth to be in the range of 1.5% to  2.5% through 2027 based on anticipated steady population growth in Arizona during that period. Retail electricity sales in kWh, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations, increased  5.7% for the year ended December 31, 2024, compared with the prior-year period.  While steady customer  growth was somewhat offset by weaker usage among residential customers, energy savings driven by  customer conservation, energy efficiency, and distributed""
""renewable generation initiatives, the main drivers  of positive sales for this period were continued strong sales to commercial and industrial customers and the  ramp-up of new data center and large manufacturing customers. For the three years through 2024, annual retail electricity sales growth averaged 3.2%, adjusted to  exclude the effects of weather variations.  Due to the expected growth of several large data centers and new  large manufacturing facilities, we currently project that annual""
""retail electricity sales in kWh will increase  in the range of 4.0% to 6.0% for 2025 and that average annual growth will be in the range of 4.0% to 6.0%  through 2027, including the effects of customer conservation, energy efficiency, and distributed renewable  Table of Contents  70  generation initiatives, but excluding the effects of weather variations.  These projected sales growth ranges  include the impacts of several large data centers and new large manufacturing facilities, which are""
""expected  to contribute to 2025 growth in the range of 3.0% to 5.0% and to average annual growth in the range of  3.0% to 5.0% through 2027.  Longer term, APS has been preparing for and can serve significant load growth from residential  and business customers.  On top of these existing growth trends, APS is also now receiving unprecedented  incremental requests for service from extra-large commercial energy users (over 25 MW) with very high  energy demands that persist virtually around-the-""
""clock.  These incremental requests for service by extra- large energy users far exceed available generation and transmission resource capacity in the Southwest  region for the foreseeable future.  In April 2023, APS notified prospective extra-large customers without  existing commitments from APS that it is not able to commit at this time to future extra-large projects of  over 25 MW.  Because of the high growth in demand for such projects, APS has developed a prioritization  queue that""
""identifies and prioritizes projects while maintaining system reliability and affordability for  existing APS customers.  APS is exploring available options for securing sufficient electric generation and  transmission to meet these projections of future customer needs. Actual sales growth, excluding weather-related variations, may differ from our projections as a  result of numerous factors, such as economic conditions, customer growth, usage patterns and energy  conservation, slower ramp-up of""
""and/or fewer data centers and large manufacturing facilities, slower than  expected commercial and industrial expansions, impacts of energy efficiency programs and growth in DG,  responses to retail price changes, changes in regulatory standards, and impacts of new and existing laws  and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations.  Based on past experience, a 1% variation  in our annual residential and small commercial and industrial kWh sales projections under normal business""
""conditions can result in increases or decreases in annual net income of approximately $24 million, and a  1% variation in our annual large commercial and industrial kWh sales projections under normal business  conditions can result in increases or decreases in annual net income of approximately $6 million. Weather.  In forecasting the retail sales growth numbers provided above, we assume normal  weather patterns based on historical data.  Our experience indicates that typical variations from""
""normal  weather can result in increases and decreases in annual net income of up to $20 million.  However, since  2020, extreme weather events, such as record-setting summer heat and decreased annual precipitation in  our service territory, have resulted in increases in annual net income that are more than historically typical,  on average.   Fuel and Purchased Power Costs.  Fuel and purchased power costs included on our Consolidated  Statements of Income are impacted by our electricity sales""
""volumes, existing contracts for purchased power  and generation fuel, our power plant performance, transmission availability or constraints, prevailing  market prices, new generating plants being placed in service in our market areas, changes in our generation  resource allocation, our hedging program for managing such costs and PSA deferrals and the related  amortization. Operations and Maintenance Expenses.  Operations and maintenance expenses are impacted by  customer and sales growth, power""
""plant operations, maintenance of utility plant (including generation,  transmission, and distribution facilities), inflation, unplanned outages, planned outages (typically scheduled  in the spring and fall), renewable energy and DSM related expenses (which are mostly offset by the same  amount of operating revenues) and other factors.  Table of Contents  71  Depreciation and Amortization Expenses.  Depreciation and amortization expenses are impacted  by net additions to utility plant and other""
""regulated electricity segment, which consists of  traditional regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses (primarily electric service to Native Load  customers) and related activities and includes electricity generation, transmission, and distribution.  Our  reportable segment activities are conducted through our wholly-owned subsidiary, APS.  All other  operating segment activities are insignificant to Pinnacle West.     Table of Contents  72  Operating Results – 2024 compared with""
""December 31, 2024 2023 Net  Change 2024 2023 Net  Change   (dollars in millions) Operating revenues $  5,125 $  4,696 $  429 $  5,125 $ 4,696 $  429  Fuel and purchased power expense   (1,823)   (1,793)   (30)   (1,823)   (1,793)   (30)  Operating revenues less fuel and purchased  power expenses   3,302   2,903   399   3,302   2,903   399  Operations and maintenance   (1,165)   (1,059)   (106)   (1,159)   (1,044)   (115)  Depreciation and amortization   (895)   (794)   (101)   (895)   (794)""
""Increase (Decrease) Operating revenues Fuel and purchased power  expenses Net change (dollars in millions) Impact of new rates from the 2022 Rate Case, effective March 8,  2024 (Note 3) $  260 $  — $  260  Higher retail revenue due to changes in usage patterns and  customer growth partially offset by the impacts of energy  efficiency and related pricing   112   55   57  Effects of weather   76   23   53  CRS revenue (Note 3)   17   —   17  Higher renewable energy regulatory surcharges, partially""
""offset by  operations and maintenance costs   21   4   17  LFCR revenue (Note 3)   16   —   16  Changes in net fuel and purchased power costs, including off- system sales margins and related deferrals   (61)   (52)   (9)  Lower transmission revenues (Note 3)   (12)   —   (12)  Total $  429 $  30 $  399  Operations and maintenance.  Operations and maintenance expenses increased $106 million for  the year ended December 31, 2024, compared with the prior-year period primarily due to:  • an increase""
""of $27 million related to information technology costs; • an increase of $25 million related to transmission, distribution, and customer service costs; • an increase of $20 million related to non-nuclear generation costs, primarily due to increased  planned outages; • an increase of $16 million related to employee benefit costs; • an increase of $14 million related to costs for renewable energy programs and similar  regulatory programs, which are partially offset in operating revenues and""
""$403 million in net cash  provided, primarily due to $447 million higher cash receipts from electric revenues, $236 million lower  fuel and purchased power costs, $15 million change in net collateral, partially offset by $125 million higher  income taxes paid, $104 million higher payments for operations and maintenance costs, $49 million higher  interest payments and $17 million of other changes in working capital.  The difference between APS’s and  Pinnacle West’s net cash provided by operating""
""next three years:    Capital Expenditures (dollars in millions) Estimated for the Year Ended December 31,   2025 2026 2027 APS Generation: Clean: Nuclear Generation $  150 $  165 $  185  Renewables and Energy Storage Systems (“ESS”)   335   165   430  Other Generation (a)   420   540   335  Distribution   665   670   675  Transmission   450   675   750  Other   380   335   275  Total APS $  2,400 $  2,550 $  2,650  (a) Includes gas generation and environmental projects.   The table above does""
""not include capital expenditures related to PNW Power projects. Generation capital expenditures are comprised of various additions and improvements to APS’s  clean resources, including nuclear plants, renewables and ESS, as well as additions and improvements to  existing fossil plants.  We are monitoring the status of environmental matters, which, depending on their  final outcome, could require modification to our planned environmental expenditures. Distribution and transmission capital""
""under certain other material agreements.  Pinnacle West and APS do not  have a material adverse change restriction for credit facility borrowings. On December 17, 2024, the ACC issued a financing order reaffirming the short-term debt  authorization equal to the sum of (i) 7% of APS’s capitalization and (ii) $500 million (which is required to  be used for costs relating to purchases of natural gas and power) and approving an increase of the long- term debt limit to $9.5 billion and a limit of""
""circumstances so  warrant.  Any downward revision or withdrawal may adversely affect the market price of Pinnacle West’s  or APS’s securities and/or result in an increase in the cost of, or limit access to, capital.  Such revisions  may also result in substantial additional cash or other collateral requirements related to certain derivative  instruments, insurance policies, natural gas transportation, fuel supply, and other energy-related contracts.   On March 7, 2024, S&P affirmed the ratings""
""See Note 5 for short- term debt details. • Fuel and purchased power commitments include purchases of coal, electricity, natural gas,  renewable energy, nuclear fuel, and natural gas transportation.  See Notes 3 and 10.  Purchase  obligations include capital expenditures and other obligations.  See Note 10.  Commitments  related to purchased power lease contracts are also considered fuel and purchased power  commitments.  See Note 8. • APS holds certain contracts to purchase renewable energy""
""credits in compliance with the RES.   See Notes 3 and 10. • APS is required to make payments to the noncontrolling interests related to the Palo Verde sale  leaseback through 2033.  See Note 17. • APS must reimburse certain coal providers for final and contemporaneous coal mine  reclamation.  See Note 10. • Pinnacle West’s equity forward sale agreements, which may be settled by Pinnacle West with  common stock or cash.  Pinnacle West has classified these agreements as equity transactions in""
""recently completed plant, by considering factors such as  applicable regulatory environment changes and recent rate orders to other regulated entities in the same  jurisdiction.  This determination reflects the current political and regulatory climate in Arizona and is  subject to change in the future.  If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the assets would be  written off as a charge in current period earnings, except for pension benefits, which would be charged to  OCI and result""
""discount rate environment will have a  larger impact than a 1% change in a high discount rate environment.  Therefore, the discount  rate sensitivities above cannot necessarily be extrapolated.  (c) This assumes a 1% change in the initial and ultimate healthcare cost trend rate. See Note 7 for further details about our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Fair Value Measurements We account for derivative instruments, investments held in our nuclear decommissioning trusts  fund,""
""accounting standard, ASU  2024-03, Income Statement Reporting: Expense Disaggregation Disclosures, effective for us on    December 31, 2027.  See Note 21 for additional information relating to new accounting standards.  MARKET AND CREDIT RISKS   Market Risks   Our operations include managing market risks related to changes in interest rates, commodity  prices, investments held by our nuclear decommissioning trusts, other special use funds and benefit plan  assets.   Interest Rate and Equity Risk""
""We have exposure to changing interest rates.  Changing interest rates will affect interest paid on  variable-rate debt and the market value of fixed income securities held by our nuclear decommissioning  trust, other special use funds (see Notes 12 and 18), and benefit plan assets.  The nuclear decommissioning  trust, other special use funds and benefit plan assets also have risks associated with the changing market  value of their equity and other non-fixed income investments.  Nuclear""
""decommissioning, coal reclamation,  and benefit plan costs are recovered in regulated electricity prices. The tables below present contractual balances of our consolidated long-term and short-term debt at  the expected maturity dates, as well as the fair value of those instruments on December 31, 2024, and  2023.  If variable interest rates were to increase by 10% from the December 31, 2024, levels, it would not  have a material effect on Pinnacle West Consolidated or APS Consolidated annual""
""Fair value $  533  $  164  $  6,296    Commodity Price Risk   We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the commodity price and transportation  costs of electricity and natural gas.  Our risk management committee, consisting of officers and key  management personnel, oversees company-wide energy risk management activities to ensure compliance  with our stated energy risk management policies.  We manage risks associated with these market  fluctuations by utilizing various commodity""
""instruments that may qualify as derivatives, including futures,  forwards, options, and swaps.  As part of our risk management program, we use such instruments to hedge  purchases and sales of electricity and natural gas.  The changes in market value of such contracts have a  high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodities. The following table shows the net pretax changes in mark-to-market of our energy derivative  positions (dollars in millions):   December 31, 2024 December 31,""
""2023 Mark-to-market of net positions at beginning of year $  (120) $  96  Decrease (increase) in regulatory asset   78   (216)  Mark-to-market of net positions at end of year $  (42) $  (120)  The table below shows the fair value of maturities of our energy derivative contracts (dollars in  millions) at December 31, 2024, by maturities and by the type of valuation that is performed to calculate  the fair values, classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant""
""hypothetical price movements of 10% would have on the  market value of our risk management assets and liabilities included on Pinnacle West’s Consolidated  Balance Sheets (dollars in millions):   December 31, 2024 Gain (Loss) December 31, 2023 Gain (Loss)   Price Up   10% Price Down  10% Price Up   10% Price Down  10% Mark-to-market changes reported in:         Regulatory asset (liability) (a)         Electricity $  3 $  (3) $  9 $  (9)  Natural gas   75   (75)   55   (55)  Total $  78 $  (78) $""
""64 $  (64)  (a) These contracts are economic hedges of our forecasted purchases of natural gas and electricity.   The impact of these hypothetical price movements would substantially offset the impact that  these same price movements would have on the physical exposures being hedged.  To the  extent the amounts are eligible for inclusion in the PSA, the amounts are recorded as either a  regulatory asset or liability.   Credit Risk   We are exposed to losses in the event of non-performance or""
""made by management to support its assertions  about impacted account balances and disclosures and the high degree of subjectivity involved in assessing  the impact of future regulatory rate orders on the financial statements. Management judgments include  continually assessing the likelihood of future recovery of regulatory assets and/or a disallowance of part of  the cost of recently completed plant, by considering factors such as applicable regulatory environment  changes, and recent rate""
""176,903   167,553  Allowance for doubtful accounts (Note 2)   (24,849)   (22,433)  Materials and supplies (at average cost)   469,022   444,344  Income tax receivable (Note 4)   —   332  Fossil fuel (at average cost)   32,420   49,203  Assets from risk management activities (Note 15)   10,578   6,808  Assets held for sale (Note 20)   —   35,139  Deferred fuel and purchased power regulatory asset (Note 3)   287,597   463,195  Other regulatory assets (Note 3)   133,372   162,562  Other current""
""assets   74,915   101,417  Total current assets   1,689,404   1,926,967  INVESTMENTS AND OTHER ASSETS     Nuclear decommissioning trusts (Notes 12 and 18)   1,282,845   1,201,246  Other special use funds (Notes 12, 17 and 18)   408,357   362,781  Assets from risk management activities (Note 15)   5,980   —  Other assets   115,095   102,845  Total investments and other assets   1,812,277   1,666,872  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Notes 1, 6 and 9)     Plant in service and held for future use""
""ACTIVITIES       Net Income $  626,030  $  518,781  $  500,826  Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:       Gain on sale relating to BCE   (22,988)   (6,423)   —  Depreciation and amortization including nuclear fuel   956,184    854,136    817,814  Deferred fuel and purchased power   (250,288)   (549,877)   (291,992)  Deferred fuel and purchased power amortization   425,886    547,243    219,579  Allowance for equity funds used during construction""
""(38,620)   (53,118)   (45,263)  Deferred income taxes   (20,923)   (24,310)   43,202  Deferred investment tax credit   (8,253)   77,065    (5,893)  Change in derivative instruments fair value   —    (777)   777  Stock compensation   23,532   17,341   15,942  Changes in current assets and liabilities:       Customer and other receivables   (12,696)   (61,983)   (63,869)  Accrued unbilled revenues   (9,350)   (2,789)   (30,784)  Materials, supplies and fossil fuel   (7,895)   (42,911)   (83,469)""
""borrowed funds used during construction   (48,270)   (43,564)   (28,030)  Proceeds from nuclear decommissioning trust sales and other special use funds  1,686,094   1,679,722   1,207,713  Investment in nuclear decommissioning trust and other special use funds  (1,709,526)  (1,681,845)  (1,212,063)  Other   (8,413)   (6,458)   (15,612)  Net cash used for investing activities  (1,933,630)  (1,694,249)  (1,618,046)  CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES       Issuance of long-term debt  1,313,229""
""statements. Management judgments include  continually assessing the likelihood of future recovery of regulatory assets and/or a disallowance of part of  the cost of recently completed plant, by considering factors such as applicable regulatory environment  changes, and recent rate orders specific to APS and to other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction.  Management judgments also include assessing the impact of potential ACC-ordered refunds to customers  on regulatory liabilities. Given""
""$884,371   591,154   266,955  Nuclear fuel, net of accumulated amortization of $115,894 and $118,074   97,850   99,490  Total property, plant and equipment   19,197,743   17,979,860  INVESTMENTS AND OTHER ASSETS     Nuclear decommissioning trusts (Notes 12 and 18)   1,282,845   1,201,246  Other special use funds (Notes 12 and 18)   374,156   362,781  Assets from risk management activities (Note 15)   5,980   —  Other assets   49,673   43,625  Total investments and other assets   1,712,654""
""1,607,652  CURRENT ASSETS     Cash and cash equivalents   3,815   4,549  Customer and other receivables   522,886   510,296  Accrued unbilled revenues   176,903   167,553  Allowance for doubtful accounts (Note 2)   (24,849)   (22,433)  Materials and supplies (at average cost)   469,022   444,344  Fossil fuel (at average cost)   32,420   49,203  Income tax receivable (Note 4)   5,463   —  Assets from risk management activities (Note 15)   10,578   6,808  Deferred fuel and purchased power""
""ACTIVITIES       Net income $  659,149  $  564,561  $  542,153  Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:       Depreciation and amortization including nuclear fuel   956,009    854,051    817,729  Deferred fuel and purchased power   (250,288)   (549,877)   (291,992)  Deferred fuel and purchased power amortization   425,886    547,243    219,579  Allowance for equity funds used during construction   (38,620)   (53,118)   (45,263)  Deferred income taxes""
""(56,461)   (10,314)   (6,817)  Deferred investment tax credit   (8,253)   77,065    (5,893)  Changes in current assets and liabilities:       Customer and other receivables   (13,570)   (62,716)   (60,930)  Accrued unbilled revenues   (9,350)   (2,789)   (30,784)  Materials, supplies and fossil fuel   (7,895)   (42,911)   (83,469)  Income tax receivable   (5,463)   1,102    9,654  Other current assets   (14,704)   (20,243)   59,970  Accounts payable   (2,500)   (70,622)   79,492  Accrued taxes""
""Net cash provided by operating activities   1,610,228    1,275,636    1,230,102  CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES       Capital expenditures   (2,249,195)   (1,825,585)  (1,655,051)  Contributions in aid of construction   311,358    180,866    137,436  Allowance for borrowed funds used during construction   (48,270)   (39,030)   (26,839)  Proceeds from nuclear decommissioning trust sales and other special use funds   1,686,094    1,679,722    1,207,713  Investment in nuclear decommissioning""
""electric service to substantially all of the state of Arizona, with the major  exceptions of about one-half of the Phoenix metropolitan area, the Tucson metropolitan area and Mohave  County in northwestern Arizona.  APS accounts for essentially all of our revenues and earnings and is  expected to continue to do so.  El Dorado is a wholly-owned subsidiary that invests in energy-related and  Arizona community-based ventures.  PNW Power is a wholly-owned subsidiary that was created in  September""
""assessing the likelihood of future recovery of  regulatory assets and/or a disallowance of part of the cost of recently completed plant, by considering  factors such as applicable regulatory environment changes and recent rate orders to other regulated entities  in the same jurisdiction.  This determination reflects the current political and regulatory climate in Arizona  and is subject to change in the future.  If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the assets would be  written off""
""as a charge in current period earnings.  Management judgments also include assessing the  impact of potential commission-ordered refunds to customers on regulatory liabilities.    See Note 3 for additional information.   Electric Revenues   Revenues primarily consist of activities that are classified as revenues from contracts with  customers.  Our electric revenues generally represent a single performance obligation delivered over time.   We have elected to apply the practical expedient that""
""allows us to recognize revenue based on the amount  to which we have a right to invoice for services performed.  We derive electric revenues primarily from sales of electricity to our regulated retail customers.   Revenues related to the sale of electricity are generally recognized when service is rendered or electricity is  delivered to customers.  Unbilled revenues are estimated by applying an average revenue/kWh by customer  class to the number of estimated kWhs delivered but not billed.""
""Differences historically between the actual  and estimated unbilled revenues are immaterial.  We exclude sales taxes and franchise fees on electric  revenues from both revenue and taxes other than income taxes.    Revenues from our regulated retail customers and non-derivative instruments are reported on a  gross basis on Pinnacle West’s Consolidated Statements of Income.  In the electricity business, some  contracts to purchase electricity are netted against other contracts to sell electricity.""
""This is called a “book- out” and usually occurs for contracts that have the same terms (quantities, delivery points and delivery  periods) and for which power does not flow.  We net these book-outs, which reduces both wholesale  revenues and fuel and purchased power costs. Certain cost recovery mechanisms may qualify as alternative revenue programs.  For alternative  revenue programs that meet specified accounting criteria, we recognize revenues when the specific events  permitting billing of""
""factor to retail electric  revenues.  The write-off factor used to estimate uncollectible accounts is based upon consideration of  historical collections experience, the current and forecasted economic environment, changes to our  collection policies, and management’s best estimate of future collections success.   See Note 2 for additional information.   Property, Plant and Equipment   Utility plant is the term we use to describe the business property and equipment that supports  electric""
""was 3.13% in 2024, 2.98% in 2023, and 3.03% in 2022. Asset Retirement Obligations APS has AROs for its Palo Verde nuclear facilities and certain other generation assets.  The Palo  Verde ARO primarily relates to final plant decommissioning.  This obligation is based on the NRC’s  requirements for disposal of irradiated property or plant and agreements APS reached with the ACC for  final decommissioning of the plant.  The non-nuclear generation AROs primarily relate to requirements for  removing""
""portions of those plants at the end of the plant life or lease term and coal ash pond closures.   Some of APS’s transmission and distribution assets have AROs because they are subject to right of way  and easement agreements that require final removal.  These agreements have a history of uninterrupted  renewal that APS expects to continue.  As a result, APS cannot reasonably estimate the fair value of the  ARO related to such transmission and distribution assets.  Additionally, APS has aquifer""
""change in the composite rate calculation  did not impact our accounting treatment for these costs.  The change did not have a material impact on our  financial statements. Materials and Supplies   APS values materials, supplies and fossil fuel inventory using a weighted-average cost method.   APS materials, supplies and fossil fuel inventories are carried at the lower of weighted-average cost or net  realizable value, unless evidence indicates that the weighted-average cost (even if in excess of""
""market) will  be recovered.   Fair Value Measurements   We apply recurring fair value measurements to cash equivalents, derivative instruments,  investments held in the nuclear decommissioning trust and other special use funds.  On an annual basis, we  apply fair value measurements to plan assets held in our retirement and other benefits plans.  Due to the  short-term nature of short-term borrowings, the carrying values of these instruments approximate fair  value.  Fair value measurements may""
""often requires  subjective and complex judgment.  Actual results could differ from the results estimated through  application of these methods. See Note 12 for additional information about fair value measurements. Derivative Accounting   We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the commodity price and transportation  costs of electricity, natural gas, coal and in interest rates.  We manage risks associated with market  volatility by utilizing various physical and financial""
""instruments including futures, forwards, options, and  swaps.  As part of our overall risk management program, we may use derivative instruments to hedge  purchases and sales of electricity and natural gas as well as interest rate risk.  The changes in market value  of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged transactions.  We also enter into  derivative instruments for economic hedging purposes.  Contracts that have the same terms (quantities,  delivery points and""
""delivery periods) and for which power does not flow are netted, which reduces both  revenues and fuel and purchased power expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income, but does not  impact our financial condition, net income, or cash flows.   We account for our derivative contracts in accordance with derivatives and hedging guidance,  which requires all derivatives not qualifying for a scope exception to be measured at fair value on the  balance sheet as either assets or liabilities.""
""Transactions with counterparties that have master netting  arrangements are reported net on the balance sheet.   See Note 15 for additional information about our derivative instruments.   Loss Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities   Pinnacle West and APS are involved in certain legal and environmental matters that arise in the  normal course of business.  Contingent losses and environmental liabilities are recorded when it is  determined that it is probable that a loss has occurred, and""
""number of  thermal units it expects to produce with that fuel.  APS then multiplies that rate by the number of thermal  units produced within the current period.  This calculation determines the current period nuclear fuel  expense.   APS also charges nuclear fuel expense for the interim storage and permanent disposal of spent  nuclear fuel.  The DOE is responsible for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel and charged APS  $0.001 per kWh of nuclear generation through May 2014, at which""
""point the DOE reduced the fee to zero.   In accordance with a settlement agreement with the DOE in August 2014 for interim storage, we accrued a  receivable and an offsetting regulatory liability through the settlement period ended December of 2024.   See Note 10 for information on spent nuclear fuel disposal costs.   Income Taxes   Income taxes are provided using the asset and liability approach prescribed by guidance relating to  accounting for income taxes and are based on currently enacted""
""measurement alternative for investments  without readily determinable fair values (if less than 20% ownership and no significant influence).   Our investments in the nuclear decommissioning trusts, and other special use funds, are accounted  for in accordance with guidance on accounting for investments in debt and equity securities.  See Notes 12  and 18 for more information on these investments. Leases We determine if an agreement is a lease at contract inception.  A lease is defined as a""
""similar economic environment.  When measuring right-of-use assets and lease liabilities we exclude  variable lease payments, other than those that depend on an index or rate or are in-substance fixed  payments.  For short-term leases with terms of 12 months or less, we do not recognize a right-of-use lease  asset or lease liability.  We recognize operating lease expense using a straight-line pattern over the periods  of use.  APS enters into purchased power contracts that may contain leases.""
""This occurs when a purchased  power agreement designates a specific power plant or facility, APS obtains substantially all of the  economic benefits from the use of the facility and has the right to direct the use of the facility.  Purchased  power lease contracts may also include energy storage facilities.  Lease costs relating to purchased power  lease contracts are reported in fuel and purchased power on the Consolidated Statements of Income and are  subject to recovery under the PSA or RES.""
""See Note 3.  We also may enter into lease agreements related to  vehicles, office space, land, and other equipment.  See Note 8 for information on our lease agreements. Business Segments   Pinnacle West’s reportable business segment is our regulated electricity segment, which consists of  traditional regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses (primarily electric service to Native Load  customers) and related activities and includes electricity generation, transmission, and""
""Consolidated Regulated  Electricity  Segment Other  Pinnacle  West  Consolidated Regulated  Electricity  Segment Other  Pinnacle  West  Consolidated Operating Revenues $  5,125 $  — $  5,125 $  4,696 $  — $  4,696 $  4,324 $  — $  4,324  Fuel & Purchase  Power    (1,823)   —   (1,823)   (1,793)   —   (1,793)   (1,629)   —   (1,629)  Operations &  Maintenance   (1,159)   (6)   (1,165)   (1,044)   (15)   (1,059)   (974)   (13)   (987)  Depreciation &  Amortization    (895)   —   (895)   (794)   —""
""Operating Revenues $  5,124,915 $  4,695,991 $  4,324,385  Retail Electric Revenue.  All of Pinnacle West’s retail electric revenue is generated by APS.   Retail electric revenue is generated by the sale of electricity to our regulated customers within the  authorized service territory at tariff rates approved by the ACC and based on customer usage.  Revenues  related to the sale of electricity are generally recognized when service is rendered, or electricity is delivered  to customers.  The""
""billing of electricity sales to individual customers is based on the reading of their  meters.  We obtain customers’ meter data on a systematic basis throughout the month, and generally bill  customers within a month from when service was provided.  Customers are generally required to pay for  services within 21 days of when the services are billed.  See “Allowance for Doubtful Accounts”  discussion below for additional details regarding payment terms. Wholesale Energy Sales and Transmission""
""Services for Others.  Revenues from wholesale energy  sales and transmission services for others represent energy and transmission sales to wholesale customers.   These activities primarily consist of managing fuel and purchased power risks in connection with the cost  of serving our retail customers’ energy requirements.  We may also sell into the wholesale markets  generation that is not needed for APS’s retail load.  Our wholesale activities and tariff rates are regulated  by FERC. Revenue""
""months of post- Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             123  test year plant and the inclusion of the Four Corners Effluent Limitations Guideline (“ELG”) project, (vi)  the approval of APS’s System Reliability Benefit (“SRB”) proposal with certain procedural and other  modifications, (vii) no additional Coal Community Transition (“CCT”) funding, (viii) a 5.0% return on the  prepaid pension asset and a return of 5.35% on the OPEB liability, and (ix) no""
""disallowances on APS’s  coal contracts.   The 2022 Rate Case ROO also recommended a number of changes to existing adjustors, including  (i) the approval of modified DSM performance incentives and the requested DSM transfer to base rates, (ii)  the retention of $1.9 million of Renewable Energy Adjustment Charge (“REAC”) in the adjustor rather  than base rates, (iii) a partial transfer of $27.1 million of LFCR funds to base rates, and (iv) the adoption of  an increase in the annual PSA cap to""
""asset and net other post- employment benefit liability in rate base, (vi) an adjustment to generation maintenance and outage expense  to reflect a more reasonable level of test year costs, (vii) approval of the SRB mechanism with  modifications to customer notifications, procedural timelines and the inclusion of any qualifying  technology and fuel source bid received through an all-source request for proposal (“ASRFP”), and (viii)  recovery of all DSM costs through the DSM Adjustment Charge""
""the ACC’s decision, such as the grid access charge (“GAC”) for solar customers, the SRB, and CCT  funding.  On April 15, 2024, the ACC granted, in part, the rehearing applications of the Attorney General,  Arizona Solar Energy Industries Association, Solar Energy Industries Association, and Vote Solar  specifically to review whether the GAC rate is just and reasonable, including whether it should be higher or  lower, whether the GAC rate constitutes a discriminatory fee to solar customers, and""
""whether omission of a  GAC charge is discriminatory to non-solar customers.  All other applications for rehearing were denied.     A limited rehearing was held October 28 through November 1.  Following the limited rehearing, an  Administrative Law Judge issued a ROO (the “Limited Rehearing ROO”) on December 3, 2024.  The  Limited Rehearing ROO recommended affirming the GAC as just and reasonable and that the GAC is not  discriminatory to solar customers and the absence of a GAC is not""
""discriminatory to non-solar customers.   On December 17, 2024, the ACC approved the Limited Rehearing ROO with an amendment that requires  APS in its next rate case to propose a revenue allocation based on a site-load cost of service study in order  to bring further parity in revenue collection between solar and non-solar customers.  SEIA, AriSEIA, Vote  Solar, the Arizona Attorney General, and two individual customers have filed requests for rehearing of the  Commission’s December 17, 2024""
""of the operating costs and construction of the  Four Corners selective catalytic reduction (“SCR”) project, with the exception of $215.5 million (see “Four  Corners SCR Cost Recovery” below); (iii) the CCT plan including the following components: (a) a  payment of $1 million to the Hopi Tribe within 60 days of the 2019 Rate Case decision, (b) a payment of  $10 million over three years to the Navajo Nation, (c) a payment of $0.5 million to the Navajo County  communities within 60 days of the 2019""
""Rate Case decision, (d) up to $1.25 million for electrification of  homes and businesses on the Hopi reservation, and (e) up to $1.25 million for the electrification of homes  and businesses on the Navajo Nation reservation; and (iv) a change in the residential on-peak time-of-use  period from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. to 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. Monday through Friday, excluding holidays.  The 2019  Rate Case ROO, as amended, resulted in a total annual revenue decrease for APS of $4.8 million,  excluding""
""million to the Navajo County communities for CCT  and economic development; and (iii) $1.25 million to the Hopi Tribe for CCT and economic development.   The ACC also authorized $1.25 million to be spent for electrification of homes and businesses on each of  the Navajo Nation and Hopi reservations.  Expenditure of the recoverable funds for electrification of  homes and businesses on the Navajo Nation and the Hopi reservations is contingent upon completion of a  census of the unelectrified homes""
""and businesses in each that are also within APS service territory.  The  census work was completed in November 2022 and disbursement of the funds for electrification of homes  and businesses is planned to be finalized after discussions with the Navajo Nation and the Hopi Tribe are  completed.  On February 22, 2024, the ACC voted to not approve any further CCT funding. APS filed a Notice of Direct Appeal to the Arizona Court of Appeals on December 17, 2021  requesting review of certain aspects of""
""certain costs outside  of a general retail rate case through the following recovery mechanisms.  See “2022 Retail Rate Case”  above for modifications of adjustment mechanisms in the 2022 Rate Case.   Renewable Energy Standard.  In 2006, the ACC approved the RES.  Under the RES, electric  utilities that are regulated by the ACC must supply an increasing percentage of their retail electric energy  sales from eligible renewable resources, including, for example, solar, wind, biomass, biogas and""
""geothermal technologies.  In order to achieve these requirements, the ACC allows APS to include a RES  surcharge as part of customer bills to recover the approved amounts for use on renewable energy projects.   Each year, APS is required to file a five-year implementation plan with the ACC and seek approval for  funding the upcoming year’s RES budget. In June 2021, the ACC adopted a clean energy rules package which would require APS to meet  certain clean energy standards and technology""
""procurement mandates, obtain approval for its action plan  included in its Integrated Resource Plan (“IRP”), and seek cost recovery in a rate process.  Since the  adopted clean energy rules differed substantially from the original ROO, supplemental rulemaking  procedures were required before the rules could become effective.  On January 26, 2022, the ACC reversed  its prior decision and declined to send the final draft energy rules through the rulemaking process.  Instead,  the ACC opened a new""
""docket to consider ASRFP requirements and the IRP process.  See “Energy  Modernization Plan” below for more information. On July 1, 2021, APS filed its 2022 RES Implementation Plan and proposed a budget of  approximately $93.1 million.  APS filed an amended 2022 RES Implementation Plan on December 9,  2021, with a proposed budget of $100.5 million.  This budget included funding for programs to comply  with the decision in the 2019 Rate Case, including the ACC authorizing spending $20 million to""
""$30 million in capital costs for the continuation of the APS Solar Communities program each year for a  period of three years from the effective date of the 2019 Rate Case decision.  APS’s budget proposal  supported existing approved projects and commitments and requested a waiver of the RES residential and  non-residential distributed energy requirements for 2022.  On May 18, 2022, the ACC approved the 2022  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             126""
""RES Implementation Plan, including an amendment requiring a stakeholder working group convene to  develop a community solar program for the ACC’s consideration at a future date.   On July 1, 2022, APS filed its 2023 RES Implementation Plan and proposed a budget of  approximately $86.2 million, excluding any funding offsets.  This budget contained funding for programs  to comply with ACC-approved initiatives, including the 2019 Rate Case decision.  APS’s budget proposal  supported existing""
""approved projects and commitments and requested a waiver of the RES residential and  non-residential distributed energy requirements for 2023.  On November 10, 2022, the ACC approved the  2023 RES Implementation Plan, including APS’s requested waiver of the distributed energy requirement  for 2023. On June 30, 2023, APS filed its 2024 RES Implementation Plan and proposed a budget of  approximately $95.1 million.  APS’s budget proposal supports existing approved projects and  commitments and""
""requests a waiver of the RES renewable energy credit requirements to demonstrate  compliance with the Annual Renewable Energy Requirement for 2023.  The ACC has not yet ruled on the  2024 RES Implementation Plan.  APS cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding. On July 1, 2024, APS filed its 2025 RES Implementation Plan and proposed a budget of  approximately $92.7 million.  APS’s budget proposal supports existing approved projects and  commitments and requests a waiver of the RES renewable""
""energy credit requirements to demonstrate  compliance with the Annual Renewable Energy Requirement for 2024.  The ACC has not yet ruled on the  2025 RES Implementation Plan.  APS cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding.  On June 14, 2021, APS filed an application for approval of its Green Power Partners Program  (“GPP”).  On September 1, 2021, the ACC approved the application.  On June 28, 2024, APS filed an  application for approval of modifications to the GPP and requested a renewable""
""generation renewable  energy credits waiver.  The ACC has not yet ruled on the GPP application.  APS cannot predict the  outcome of this proceeding.  Demand Side Management Adjustor Charge.  The ACC Electric Energy Efficiency Standards  require APS to submit a DSM Implementation Plan annually for review and approval by the ACC.   Verified energy savings from APS’s resource savings projects can be counted toward compliance with the  Electric Energy Efficiency Standards; however, APS is not""
""DSM spending above 2021.  On November 10, 2022, the ACC  approved the 2022 DSM Implementation Plan, including a proposed performance incentive. On June 1, 2022, APS filed its 2023 Transportation Electrification Plan (“2023 TE Plan”).  The  2023 TE Plan detailed APS’s efforts to support transportation electrification in Arizona, including the Take  Charge AZ Pilot Program and customer education and outreach related to transportation electrification.   Subsequently, APS filed an amended 2023 TE""
""Plan on November 30, 2022, that included a request for a  $5 million budget.  On December 12, 2023, the ACC approved the 2023 TE Plan without including the  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             127  Take Charge AZ Program and its budget going forward, but allowed APS to complete projects already  underway.  Additionally, the ACC discontinued the residential EV SmartCharger rebate and approved  modifications to the EV rate plan. On November 30, 2022,""
""elements of the amended 2023 DSM Implementation Plan as well as the 2024 TE  Implementation Plan.  On April 26, 2024, APS filed an amendment to the 2024 DSM Implementation Plan.   The amended 2024 DSM Implementation Plan includes an updated budget of $90.9 million to reflect  removal of incentive funds for the Level 2 Smart Charger rebate within the EV Charging Demand  Management Pilot, an update on the performance incentive calculation, and the withdrawal of tranches two  and three of the""
""residential battery pilot.  The ACC has not yet ruled on the amended 2024 DSM  Implementation Plan.  In a letter filed May 31, 2024, APS said it would not file a 2025 DSM  Implementation Plan pending ACC review of the amended 2024 DSM Implementation Plan.  APS cannot  predict the outcome of this proceeding. Power Supply Adjustor Mechanism and Balance.  The PSA provides for the adjustment of retail  rates to reflect variations primarily in retail fuel and purchased power costs.  The PSA is""
""subject to  specified parameters and procedures, including the following: • APS records deferrals for recovery or refund to the extent actual retail fuel and purchased  power costs vary from the Base Fuel Rate; • an adjustment to the PSA rate is made annually each February 1 (unless otherwise approved by  the ACC) and goes into effect automatically unless suspended by the ACC; • the PSA uses a forward-looking estimate of fuel and purchased power costs to set the annual  PSA rate, which is""
""reconciled to actual costs experienced for each PSA Year (February 1  through January 31) (see the following bullet point); • the PSA rate includes (a) a “forward component,” under which APS recovers or refunds  differences between expected fuel and purchased power costs for the upcoming calendar year  and those embedded in the Base Fuel Rate; (b) a “historical component,” under which  differences between actual fuel and purchased power costs and those recovered or refunded  through the""
""combination of the Base Fuel Rate and the forward component are recovered  during the next PSA Year; and (c) a “transition component,” under which APS may seek mid- year PSA changes due to large variances between actual fuel and purchased power costs and  the combination of the Base Fuel Rate and the forward component; and • the PSA rate may not be increased or decreased more than $0.006 per kWh in a year without  permission of the ACC. Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL""
""STATEMENTS             128  The following table shows the changes in the deferred fuel and purchased power regulatory asset  for 2024 and 2023 (dollars in thousands):   Year Ended  December 31,   2024 2023 Balance at beginning of period $ 463,195 $ 460,561  Deferred fuel and purchased power costs  250,288  549,877  Amounts charged to customers  (425,886)  (547,243)  Balance at end of period $ 287,597 $ 463,195  On November 30, 2021, APS filed its PSA rate for the PSA year beginning February 1,""
""2022.  That  rate was $0.007544 per kWh, which consisted of a forward component of $(0.004842) per kWh and a  historical component of $0.012386 per kWh.  The 2022 PSA rate was a $0.004 per kWh increase compared  to the 2021 PSA year, which is the maximum permitted under the Plan of Administration for the PSA.   These rates went into effect as filed on February 1, 2022. On April 1, 2022, the ACC filed a final report of its third-party audit findings regarding APS’s fuel  and purchased power costs""
""for the period January 2019 through January 2021.  The report contained an in- depth review of APS’s fuel and purchased power contracts, its monthly fuel accounting activities, its  forecasting and dispatching procedures, and its monthly PSA filings, among other fuel-related activities.   The report found that APS’s fuel processing accounting practices, dispatching procedures, and procedures  for hedging activity were reasonable and appropriate.  The report included several recommendations for""
""account to near-zero over a 24-month period.  On November 30, 2023, APS  notified the ACC that it will be maintaining the current PSA rate of $0.019074 per kWh and an updated  PSA adjustment schedule would not be filed at that time.  In Decision No. 79293 in the 2022 Rate Case,  the ACC approved a permanent increase in the annual PSA adjustor rate cap from $0.004 per kWh to  $0.006 per kWh and a requirement that APS report to the ACC for possible action when the overall PSA  balance reaches $100""
""million.  As part of the 2022 Rate Case decision, the ACC also approved an overall  PSA rate of $0.011977 per kWh, which consisted of a forward component of $(0.012624) per kWh, a  historical component of $0.013071 per kWh, and a transition component of $0.011530 per kWh.  The  overall PSA rate was reduced to offset an increase in base fuel prices.  The rate became effective on    March 8, 2024. On November 27, 2024, APS filed its PSA rate for the PSA year beginning February 1, 2025.  The""
""overall PSA rate of $0.013977 per kWh consists of a forward component of $(0.000281) per kWh, a  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             129  historical component of $0.008728 per kWh, and a transition component of $0.005530.  This overall PSA  rate is an increase of $0.002 per kWh over the prior overall rate approved in the 2022 Rate Case decision,  and it is below the annual PSA rate increase cap of $0.006 per kWh.  On February 5, 2025, the ACC voted""
""to approve this request, with a rate effective date of the first billing cycle in March 2025. Environmental Improvement Surcharge.  On March 5, 2024, the ACC approved the elimination  of the EIS, and the surcharge is no longer in effect.  The EIS permitted APS to recover the capital carrying  costs (rate of return, depreciation and taxes) plus incremental operations and maintenance expenses  associated with environmental improvements made outside of a test year to comply with environmental""
""adjustment to APS’s retail rates to recover FERC-approved  transmission charges went into effect automatically on June 1, 2022. Effective June 1, 2023, APS’s annual wholesale transmission revenue requirement for all users of  its transmission system increased by approximately $34.7 million for the 12-month period beginning     June 1, 2023, in accordance with the FERC-approved formula.  Of this net amount, wholesale customer  rates increased by approximately $20.7 million and retail customer""
""recover FERC-approved transmission  charges went into effect automatically on June 1, 2023. Effective June 1, 2024, APS’s annual wholesale transmission revenue requirement for all users of  its transmission system increased by approximately $27.4 million for the 12-month period beginning     June 1, 2024 in accordance with the FERC-approved formula.  Of this net amount, wholesale customer  rates increased by approximately $16.6 million and retail customer rates would have increased by""
""approximately $10.8 million.  However, since changes in Retail Transmission Charges are reflected  through the TCA after consideration of transmission recovery in retail base rates and the ACC-approved  balancing account, the retail revenue requirement increased by $8.8 million, resulting in an increase to  residential and commercial rates over 3 MW and a decrease to commercial rates less than or equal to 3  MW.  An adjustment to APS’s retail rates to recover FERC-approved transmission charges""
""went into effect  automatically on June 1, 2024. Lost Fixed Cost Recovery Mechanism.  The LFCR mechanism permits APS to recover on an after- the-fact basis a portion of its fixed costs that would otherwise have been collected by APS in the kWh sales  lost due to APS energy efficiency programs and to DG such as rooftop solar arrays.  The adjustment to the  LFCR has a year-over-year cap of 1% of retail revenues.  Any amounts left unrecovered in a particular year  because of this cap can be carried""
""over for recovery in a future year.  The kWhs lost from energy efficiency  are based on a third-party evaluation of APS’s energy efficiency programs.  DG sales losses are determined  from the metered output from the DG units.   On February 15, 2022, APS filed its 2022 annual LFCR adjustment, requesting that effective     May 1, 2022, the annual LFCR recovery amount be increased to $59.1 million (a $32.5 million increase  from previous levels, which was inclusive of a $11.8 million balance from""
""collected as of December 31, 2024, will cease upon full  collection of the lost revenue.  Additionally, the CRS tariff was updated to remove the return on equity  component and account for SCR-related depreciation and deferral adjustments approved in Decision No.  79293 in the 2022 Rate Case.  See “2019 Retail Rate Case” above for more information.   Net Metering The ACC’s decision from APS’s 2017 rate case (the “2017 Rate Case Decision”) provides that  payments by utilities for energy exported""
""to the grid from residential DG solar facilities will be determined  using a Resource Comparison Proxy (“RCP”) methodology as determined in the ACC’s generic Value and  Cost of Distributed Generation docket.  RCP is a method that is based on the most recent five-year rolling  average price that APS incurs for utility-scale solar photovoltaic projects.  The price established by this  RCP method is updated annually (between general retail rate cases) but cannot be decreased by more than  10% per""
""year.   On April 29, 2022, APS filed an application to decrease the RCP price from 9.4 cents per kWh,  which had been in effect since October 1, 2021, to 8.46 cents per kWh, reflecting a 10% annual reduction,  to become effective September 1, 2022.  On July 12, 2022, the ACC approved the RCP as filed. On May 1, 2023, APS filed an application for revisions to the RCP.  This application would  decrease the RCP price to 7.619 cents per kWh, reflecting a 10% annual reduction, to become effective""
""September 1, 2023.  On August 25, 2023, the ACC approved the RCP as filed. On May 1, 2024, APS filed an application for revisions to the RCP.  This application would  decrease the RCP price to 6.857 cents per kWh, reflecting a 10% annual reduction, to become effective  September 1, 2024.  On August 13, 2024, the ACC approved the RCP as filed.   Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             132  On October 11, 2023, the ACC voted to open a new general docket to""
""hold a hearing to explore  potential future changes to the 10% annual reduction cap in the solar export rate paid by utilities to  distributed solar customers for exports to the grid and the 10-year rate lock period for those customers that  were approved in the ACC’s Value and Cost of Distributed Generation Docket.  A procedural conference  was held on November 1, 2023, to discuss the process going forward.  As a result of the procedural  conference, ACC Staff issued a request for information""
""responses to the ACC Staff’s request for additional information on July 1, 2024, and  on October 15, 2024, the ACC Staff filed a report finding that the RCP is working as intended and  recommending no changes to the RCP at this time.  The ACC Staff also recommended that the ACC close  the docket without a hearing or further action.  The ACC has not yet acted on the ACC Staff’s  recommendation, and APS cannot predict the outcome of this matter. Energy Modernization Plan  On May 26, 2023, the ACC""
""opened a new docket to review articles within the Arizona  Administrative Code related to Resource Planning, the Renewable Energy Standard and Tariff, and Electric  Energy Efficiency Standards.  On January 9, 2024, the ACC approved a rulemaking process for this matter.   During the ACC Open Meeting on February 6, 2024, the ACC approved motions to direct ACC Staff to  include recommendations to repeal the current Electric Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Standard  rules during the""
""rulemaking process.  On August 21, 2024, the ACC Staff filed separate reports for each set  of rules, including its recommendations to repeal the Electric Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy  Standard rules along with required preliminary economic, small business, and consumer impact statements.   APS and other interested parties have filed comments about the ACC Staff reports.  APS cannot predict the  outcome of this matter.  Integrated Resource Planning ACC rules require utilities to""
""next IRP.  See “Energy Modernization Plan” above for information regarding  proposed changes to the IRP filings.  Equity Infusions On October 27, 2023, APS filed a notice of intent to increase Pinnacle West’s equity in APS in  2024.  APS sought approval to receive from Pinnacle West in 2024 up to $500 million in additional equity  infusions above the previously authorized limit of $150 million annually.  The ACC approved the  increased equity infusion limit for 2024 on January 9, 2024. On April""
""1978 (“PURPA”), qualifying facilities are  provided the right to sell energy and/or capacity to utilities and are granted relief from certain regulatory  burdens.  On December 17, 2019, the ACC mandated a minimum contract length of 18 years for qualifying  facilities over 100 kW in Arizona and established that the rate paid to qualifying facilities must be based on  the long-term avoided cost.  “Avoided cost” is generally defined as the price at which the utility could  purchase or produce the""
""ACC’s Legal Division that resolved all issues relating to  the 2019 Rate Case decision, including recovery of the cost of the Four Corners SCRs.  See above for  further discussion on the 2019 Rate Case decision.    Cholla  On September 11, 2014, APS announced that it would close Unit 2 of the Cholla Power Plant  (“Cholla”) and cease burning coal at the other APS-owned units (Units 1 and 3) at the plant by the  mid-2020s, if the EPA approved a compromise proposal offered by APS to meet required""
""environmental  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             135  and emissions standards and rules.  On April 14, 2015, the ACC approved APS’s plan to retire Unit 2,  without expressing any view on the future recoverability of APS’s remaining investment in the unit.  APS  closed Unit 2 on October 1, 2015.  In early 2017, EPA approved a final rule incorporating APS’s  compromise proposal, which took effect on April 26, 2017.  In December 2019, PacifiCorp""
""notified APS  that it planned to retire Cholla Unit 4 by the end of 2020 and the unit ceased operation in December 2020.   APS is required to cease burning coal at its remaining Cholla units by April 2025. Previously, APS estimated Cholla Unit 2’s end of life to be 2033.  APS has been recovering a  return on and of the net book value of the unit in base rates.  APS is allowed continued recovery of the net  book value of the unit and the unit’s decommissioning and other retirement-related costs,""
""remaining Cholla units.  This order would authorize APS  to defer, for future recovery in rates, both the expenses necessary to close and decommission coal-fired  power plant infrastructure at Cholla, including legally required site environmental remediation, CCR  corrective actions, the closure of CCR management facilities, and any unrecovered plant investment and  operating costs incurred through and after April 2025.  APS cannot predict the outcome of this matter. Navajo Plant  The Navajo""
""including the Navajo coal reclamation regulatory  asset, $7.9 million as of December 31, 2024.  The disallowed recovery of 15% of the annual amortization  does not have a material impact on APS financial statements. Fire Mitigation On August 14, 2024, APS filed a request with the ACC for a deferral order that would authorize  APS to defer, for future recovery in rates, operations and maintenance expenses associated with wildfire  management, including increased insurance costs.  APS cannot""
""83,123   89,477  Lease incentives (g)   70,541   46,615  Retired power plant costs 2033   68,380   83,536  Deferred fuel and purchased power — mark-to-market (Note 15) 2027   42,275   120,214  FERC Transmission true up 2026   35,159   616  Income taxes — investment tax credit basis adjustment 2056   34,834   34,230  Deferred compensation 2036   33,108   33,972  Deferred property taxes 2027   23,918   32,488  Palo Verde VIEs (Note 17) 2046   20,611   20,772  Power supply adjustor - interest 2025""
""11,525   19,416  Active Union Medical Trust (f)   9,673   12,747  Mead-Phoenix transmission line contributions in aid of construction  (“CIAC”) 2050   8,384   8,716  Navajo coal reclamation 2026   7,905   10,883  Loss on reacquired debt 2038   6,682   7,965  Tax expense adjustor mechanism (b) 2031   4,534   5,190  Four Corners cost deferral 2024   —   7,922  Other Various   3,522   3,912  Total regulatory assets (d) $  1,810,458 $  2,016,036  Less: current regulatory assets $  420,969 $  625,757""
""Cuts and Jobs Act (a) 2058   207,400   214,667  Asset retirement obligations and removal costs (d)   358,403   486,751  Other postretirement benefits (c)   238,113   226,726  Four Corners coal reclamation 2038   77,532   68,521  Renewable energy standard (b) 2025   68,523   60,667  Income taxes — deferred investment tax credit 2056   66,327   55,917  Income taxes — change in rates 2053   59,133   43,251  Spent nuclear fuel 2027   26,818   33,154  Demand side management (b) 2025   23,927   14,374""
""January 30, 2024, Pinnacle West entered into a tax credit transfer agreement to purchase from  Ameresco $23 million of investment tax credits from the BCE Los Alamitos project for $21 million.  See  Note 20 for more information about the BCE Sale. As a part of the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (“IRA”), a new PTC for nuclear energy produced  by existing nuclear energy plants (“Nuclear PTC”) was enacted.  Energy produced and sold by APS from  Palo Verde between 2024 and 2032 is eligible for this""
""tax  benefit   24,218   18,024   17,740   25,639   19,832   19,000  State income tax credits net of federal  income tax benefit   (3,349)   (3,513)   (5,482)   (1,611)   (1,775)   (3,744)  Excess deferred income taxes — Tax Cuts  and Jobs Act  (36,559)  (36,558)  (36,241)  (36,559)  (36,558)  (36,241)  Allowance for equity funds used during  construction (Note 1)   (2,545)   (5,964)   (4,629)   (2,545)   (5,964)   (4,629)  Palo Verde VIE noncontrolling interest  (Note 17)   (3,617)   (3,617)""
""costs   81,308   113,312   81,308   113,312  Unamortized investment tax credits   66,327   68,521   66,327   68,521  Other postretirement benefits   58,862   56,070   58,862   56,070  Other   47,671   39,857   47,671   39,857  Operating lease liabilities   400,771   316,067   400,442   315,670  Pension liabilities   39,070   33,294   36,100   29,918  Coal reclamation liabilities   42,391   45,505   42,391   45,505  Renewable energy incentives   14,571   17,261   14,571   17,261  Credit and loss""
""August 2, 2024, Pinnacle West amended its $200 million revolving credit facility, extending the  maturity date from April 10, 2028 to April 10, 2029, and providing a mechanism to either update the  Sustainability Table (as defined in the Pinnacle West revolving credit facility), which provides for a  sustainability-linked pricing feature, or, in certain circumstances, terminate the sustainability-linked pricing  feature for the final year.  Pinnacle West has the option to increase the amount of""
""the facility up to a total of  $300 million upon the satisfaction of certain conditions and with the consent of the lenders.  Interest rates  are based on Pinnacle West’s senior unsecured debt credit ratings and the agreement includes a  sustainability-linked pricing metric which permits an interest rate reduction or increase by meeting or  missing targets related to specific environmental and employee health and safety sustainability objectives.   The facility is available to support Pinnacle""
""143  APS On August 2, 2024, APS amended its $1.25 billion revolving credit facility, extending the maturity  date from April 10, 2028 to April 10, 2029, and providing a mechanism to either update the Sustainability  Table (as defined in the APS revolving credit facility), which provides for a sustainability-linked pricing  feature, or, in certain circumstances, terminate the sustainability-linked pricing feature for the final year.   APS has the option to increase the amount of the facility by""
""up to a maximum of $400 million, for a total of  $1.65 billion, upon the satisfaction of certain conditions and with the consent of the lenders.  Interest rates  are based on APS’s senior unsecured debt credit ratings and the agreement includes a sustainability-linked  pricing metric which permits an interest rate reduction or increase by meeting or missing targets related to  specific environmental and employee health and safety sustainability objectives.  The facility is available to  support""
""purchases of natural gas and power) and increased the long-term debt limit to  $9.5 billion and made certain changes to permitted annual equity infusions into APS.  See Note 6 for  additional long-term debt provisions.  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             144   6.  Long-Term Debt and Liquidity Matters All of Pinnacle West’s and APS’s debt is unsecured.  The following table presents the components  of long-term debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets""
""outstanding (dollars in thousands):   Maturity Interest December 31,   Dates (a) Rates 2024 2023 APS         Pollution control bonds:         Variable 2029 (b) $  163,975 $  163,975  Total pollution control bonds       163,975   163,975  Senior unsecured notes 2025-2050 2.20%-6.88%   7,380,000   7,180,000  Unamortized discount       (14,252)   (14,197)  Unamortized premium       9,955   11,162  Unamortized debt issuance cost   (48,800)   (49,049)  Total APS long-term debt       7,490,878""
""Total Pinnacle West long-term debt less current  maturities   867,770   498,731  TOTAL LONG-TERM DEBT LESS CURRENT  MATURITIES $  8,058,648 $  7,540,622  (a)  This schedule does not reflect the timing of redemptions that may occur prior to maturities. (b)  The weighted-average interest rate for the variable rate pollution control bonds was 4.01% at December 31,  2024, and 4.11% at December 31, 2023. (c)  The weighted-average interest rate was 5.88% at December 31, 2024, and was not applicable at""
""for the development of a 31 megawatt (“MW”) solar and 20  megawatt hour (“MWh”) battery storage project in Los Alamitos, California (“Los Alamitos”).  The credit  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             148  agreement consisted of an equity bridge loan facility, a non-recourse construction facility, a letter of credit  facility, and a related interest rate swap.  On August 4, 2023, Pinnacle West entered into a purchase and  sale agreement with Ameresco,""
""expiration dates.  APS also has certain purchased power  and energy storage agreements that qualify as lease arrangements.  Our leases have remaining terms that  expire in 2025 through 2073.  Substantially all of our leasing activities relate to APS.  In 1986, APS entered into agreements with three separate lessor trust entities in order to sell and  lease back interests in Palo Verde Unit 2 and related common facilities.  These lessor trust entities have  been deemed VIEs for which APS is the""
""primary beneficiary.  As the primary beneficiary, APS  consolidated these lessor trust entities.  The impacts of these sale leaseback transactions are excluded from  our lease disclosures as lease accounting is eliminated upon consolidation.  See Note 17 for a discussion of  VIEs. APS has purchased power lease agreements that allow APS the right to the generation capacity  from certain natural-gas fueled generators during certain months of each year throughout the term of the  arrangements.  As""
""lease and non-lease payment components and accounts for the entire fixed payment as a lease obligation.   In addition to the fixed monthly capacity payments, APS must also pay variable charges based on the  actual production volume of the assets.  The variable consideration is not included in the measurement of  our lease obligation.  APS has executed various energy storage purchased power lease agreements that allow APS the  right to charge and discharge energy storage facilities.  APS pays a""
""fixed monthly capacity price for rights  to use the lease assets.  The agreements generally have 20-year lease terms and provide APS with the  exclusive use of the energy storage assets through the lease term.  APS does not operate or maintain the  energy storage facilities and has no purchase options or residual value guarantees relating to these lease  assets.  For this class of energy storage lease assets, APS has elected to separate the lease and non-lease  components.  These leases are""
""accounted for as operating leases, with lease terms that commenced between  September 2023 and August 2024.   The following table provides information related to our lease costs (dollars in thousands):  Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Operating Lease Cost - Purchased Power & Energy Storage Lease Contracts $  147,313 $  126,655 $ 104,001  Operating Lease Cost - Land, Property, and Other Equipment   20,120   19,235   18,061  Total Operating Lease Cost   167,433   145,890   122,062  Variable""
""Lease Cost (a)   144,108   135,007   122,040  Short-term Lease Cost   20,653   21,530   9,928  Total Lease Cost $  332,194 $  302,427 $ 254,030  (a)   Primarily relates to purchased power lease contracts. Lease costs are primarily included as a component of operating expenses on our Consolidated  Statements of Income.  Lease costs relating to purchased power and energy storage lease contracts are  recorded in fuel and purchased power on the Consolidated Statements of Income and are subject to""
""recovery under the PSA or RES.  See Note 3.  The tables above reflect the lease cost amounts before the  effect of regulatory deferral under the PSA and RES.  Variable lease costs are recognized in the period the  costs are incurred, and primarily relate to renewable purchased power lease contracts.  Payments under  most renewable purchased power lease contracts are dependent upon environmental factors, and due to the  inherent uncertainty associated with the reliability of the fuel source, the""
""The following table provides information related to the maturity of our operating lease liabilities  (dollars in thousands):   December 31, 2024 Year Purchased Power  & Energy  Storage Lease  Contracts Land, Property  & Equipment  Leases Total 2025  $  158,363  $  16,834  $  175,197  2026   172,087    14,830    186,917  2027   198,007    12,249    210,256  2028   201,804    9,591    211,395  2029   205,741    7,465    213,206  Thereafter   1,140,971    61,855    1,202,826  Total lease""
""over the terms of the agreements.  These arrangements primarily relate to  energy storage assets.  We expect lease commencement dates ranging from March 2025 through June  2028, with lease terms expiring through June 2048.  The lease commencement dates for certain  arrangements have experienced delays.  As a result of these delays and other events, APS has received cash  proceeds from certain lessors prior to lease commencement.  Proceeds received from lessors relating to  energy storage PPA""
""discount rate (c)  4.90 %  4.53 % (a) Primarily relates to the three new energy storage operating lease agreements that commenced in 2024. (b) Primarily relates to the two purchased power operating lease agreements that were modified in January 2023.  (c) Most of our lease agreements do not contain an implicit rate that is readily determinable.  For these  agreements we use our incremental borrowing rate to measure the present value of lease liabilities.  We  determine our incremental borrowing""
""information), and APS operated the unit for  PacifiCorp.  Cholla Unit 4 was retired on December 24, 2020.  The common facilities at Cholla are jointly- owned.     Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 162  10.  Commitments and Contingencies     Palo Verde Generating Station    Spent Nuclear Fuel and Waste Disposal    On December 19, 2012, APS, acting on behalf of itself and the participant owners of Palo Verde,  filed a second breach of contract lawsuit against""
""the DOE in the United States Court of Federal Claims  (“Court of Federal Claims”).  The lawsuit sought to recover damages incurred due to DOE’s breach of the  Contract for Disposal of Spent Nuclear Fuel and/or High Level Radioactive Waste (“Standard Contract”)  for failing to accept Palo Verde’s spent nuclear fuel and high level waste from January 1, 2007, through  June 30, 2011, pursuant to the terms of the Standard Contract and the Nuclear Waste Policy Act.  On  August 18, 2014, APS and DOE""
""available from both commercial sources and an industry-wide retrospective payment  plan.  This insurance limit is subject to an adjustment every five years based upon the aggregate percentage  change in the Consumer Price Index.  The most recent adjustment took effect on January 1, 2024.  As of  that date, in accordance with the Price-Anderson Act, the Palo Verde participants are insured against public  liability for a nuclear incident up to approximately $16.3 billion per occurrence.  Palo""
""Verde maintains the  maximum available nuclear liability insurance in the amount of $500 million, which is provided by  American Nuclear Insurers.  The remaining balance of approximately $15.8 billion of liability coverage is  provided through a mandatory, industry-wide retrospective premium program.  If losses at any nuclear  power plant covered by the program exceed the accumulated funds, APS could be responsible for  retrospective premiums.  The maximum retrospective premium per reactor under""
""participants maintain insurance for property damage to, and decontamination of,  property at Palo Verde in the aggregate amount of $2.8 billion.  APS has also secured accidental outage  insurance for a sudden and unforeseen accidental outage of any of the three units.  The property damage,  decontamination, and accidental outage insurance are provided by Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited  (“NEIL”).  APS is subject to retrospective premium adjustments under all NEIL policies if NEIL’s losses  in""
""primary beneficiary of the VIE and consolidates the assets and liabilities of the Captive.  See Note 17 for  additional details.  Fuel and Purchased Power Commitments and Purchase Obligations APS is party to various fuel and purchased power contracts and purchase obligations with terms  expiring between 2025 and 2048 that include required purchase provisions.  APS estimates the contract  requirements to be approximately $1,540 million in 2025; $1,742 million in 2026; $1,973 million in 2027;""
""$2,142 million in 2028; $2,115 million in 2029; and $27.2 billion thereafter.  However, these amounts may  vary significantly pursuant to certain provisions in such contracts that permit us to decrease required  purchases under certain circumstances.  These amounts include estimated commitments relating to  purchased power lease contracts.  See Note 8.    Of the various fuel and purchased power contracts mentioned above, some of those contracts for  coal supply include take-or-pay provisions.""
""The current coal contracts with take-or-pay provisions have  terms expiring through 2031.   Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 164  The following table summarizes our estimated coal take-or-pay commitments (dollars in  thousands):     Year Ended December 31,   2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 Thereafter (b) Coal take-or-pay commitments (a) $  208,984 $  214,090 $  212,529 $  217,820 $  223,291 $  463,752    (a) Total take-or-pay commitments are approximately $1.5""
""billion.  The total net present value of these  commitments using a 4.81% discount rate is approximately $1.3 billion. (b) Through 2031.     APS may spend more to meet its actual fuel requirements than the minimum purchase obligations  in our coal take-or-pay contracts.  The following table summarizes actual amounts purchased under the  coal contracts which include take-or-pay provisions for each of the last three years (dollars in thousands):    Year Ended December 31,   2024 2023 2022 Total""
""purchases $  237,821 $  255,219 $  305,502    Renewable Energy Credits   APS has entered into contracts to purchase renewable energy credits to comply with the RES.  APS  estimates the contract requirements to be approximately $27 million in 2025; $24 million in 2026; $21  million in 2027; $18 million in 2028; $16 million in 2029; and $36 million thereafter.  These amounts do  not include purchases of renewable energy credits that are bundled with energy.   Coal Mine Reclamation Obligations APS""
""must reimburse certain coal providers for final and contemporaneous coal mine reclamation.   We account for contemporaneous reclamation costs as part of the cost of the delivered coal.  We utilize  site-specific studies of costs expected to be incurred in the future to estimate our final reclamation  obligation.  These studies utilize various assumptions to estimate the future costs.  Based on the most  recent reclamation studies, APS recorded an obligation for the coal mine final reclamation of""
""approximately $171 million at December 31, 2024, and $184 million at December 31, 2023.  Under our  current coal supply agreements, APS expects to make payments for the final mine reclamation as follows:   $20 million in 2025; $21 million in 2026; $22 million in 2027; $23 million in 2028; and $2 million  thereafter.  These funds are held in an escrow account and will be distributed to certain coal providers  under the terms of the applicable coal supply agreements.  Any amendments to current""
""coal supply  agreements may change the timing of the contribution or cost of final reclamation.  The annual payments to  the escrow account and final distribution to certain coal providers may be subject to adjustments based on  escrow earnings.   Superfund and Other Related Matters   The Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (“Superfund” or  “CERCLA”) establishes liability for the cleanup of hazardous substances found contaminating the soil,  water or air.  Those""
""who released, generated, transported to or disposed of hazardous substances at a  Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 165  contaminated site are among the parties who are potentially responsible (each a “PRP”).  PRPs may be  strictly, jointly, and severally liable for clean-up.  On September 3, 2003, EPA advised APS that EPA  considers APS to be a PRP in the Motorola 52nd Street Superfund Site, Operable Unit 3 (“OU3”) in  Phoenix, Arizona.  APS has facilities""
""that are within this Superfund site.  APS and Pinnacle West have  agreed with EPA to perform certain investigative activities of the APS facilities within OU3.  In addition,  on September 23, 2009, APS agreed with EPA and one other PRP to voluntarily assist with the funding and  management of the site-wide groundwater remedial investigation and feasibility study (“RI/FS”).  The RI/ FS for OU3 was finalized and submitted to EPA at the end of 2022.  EPA notified APS that the RI/FS was  approved on""
""defendants in various CERCLA lawsuits stemming from allegations that contamination  from OU3 and elsewhere has impacted groundwater wells operated by the Roosevelt Irrigation District  (“RID”).  At this time, only one active lawsuit remains pending in the U.S. District Court for Arizona,  which concerns $8.3 million in remediation legal expenses.  APS is unable to predict the outcome of any  further litigation related to this claim or APS’s share of liability related to that claim; however, APS""
""does  not expect the outcome to have a material impact on its financial position, results of operations or cash  flows.  On February 28, 2022, EPA provided APS with a request for information under CERCLA related  to APS’s Ocotillo power plant site located in Tempe, Arizona.  In particular, EPA seeks information from  APS regarding APS’s use, storage, and disposal of substances containing per-and polyfluoroalkyl  (“PFAS”) compounds at the Ocotillo power plant site in order to aid EPA’s""
""investigation into actual or  threatened releases of PFAS into groundwater within the South Indian Bend Wash (“SIBW”) Superfund  site.  The SIBW Superfund site includes the APS Ocotillo power plant site.  APS filed its response to this  information request on April 29, 2022.  On January 17, 2023, EPA contacted APS to inform APS that it  would be commencing on-site investigations within the SIBW site, including the Ocotillo power plant, and  performing a remedial investigation and feasibility""
""study related to potential PFAS impacts to groundwater  over the next two to three years.  APS estimates that its costs to oversee and participate in the remedial  investigation work will be approximately $1.7 million.  At the present time, we are unable to predict the  outcome of this matter, and any further expenditures related to necessary remediation, if any, or further  investigations cannot be reasonably estimated.  Environmental Matters APS is subject to numerous environmental laws and""
""regulations affecting many aspects of its  present and future operations, including air emissions of both conventional pollutants and greenhouse  gases, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste, hazardous waste, and CCRs.  These laws and  regulations can change from time to time, imposing new obligations on APS resulting in increased capital,  operating, and other costs.  Associated capital expenditures or operating costs could be material.  APS  intends to seek recovery of any such""
""environmental compliance costs through our rates but cannot predict  whether it will obtain such recovery.  The following proposed and final rules could involve material  compliance costs to APS.   Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 166  Coal Combustion Waste.  On December 19, 2014, EPA issued its final regulations governing the  handling and disposal of CCR, such as fly ash and bottom ash.  The rule regulates CCR as a non-hazardous  waste under Subtitle D of""
""the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) and establishes national  minimum criteria for existing and new CCR landfills and surface impoundments and all lateral expansions.   These criteria include standards governing location restrictions, design and operating criteria, groundwater  monitoring and corrective action, closure requirements and post closure care, and recordkeeping,  notification, and internet posting requirements.  The rule generally requires any existing unlined CCR""
""surface impoundment to stop receiving CCR and either retrofit or close, and further requires the closure of  any CCR landfill or surface impoundment that cannot meet the applicable performance criteria for location  restrictions or structural integrity.  Such closure requirements are deemed “forced closure” or “closure for  cause” of unlined surface impoundments and are the subject of the regulatory and judicial activities  described below. Since these regulations were finalized, EPA has taken""
""steps to substantially modify the federal  rules governing CCR disposal.  While certain changes have been prompted by utility industry petitions,  others have resulted from judicial review, court-approved settlements with environmental groups, and  statutory changes to RCRA.  The following lists the pending regulatory changes that, if finalized, could  have a material impact as to how APS manages CCR at its coal-fired power plants: • Following the passage of the Water Infrastructure Improvements""
""for the Nation (“WIIN”) Act  in 2016, EPA possesses authority to either authorize states to develop their own permit  programs for CCR management or issue federal permits governing CCR disposal both in states  without their own permit programs and on tribal lands.  At this time, Arizona Department of  Environmental Quality (“ADEQ”) has taken steps to develop a CCR permitting program and  plans to propose state regulations governing CCR permitting over the summer of 2024.  It  remains unclear""
""when EPA would approve that permitting program pursuant to the WIIN Act.   On December 19, 2019, EPA proposed its own set of regulations governing the issuance of  CCR management permits, which would impact facilities like Four Corners located on the  Navajo Nation.  The proposal remains pending.  • On March 1, 2018, as a result of a settlement with certain environmental groups, EPA proposed  adding boron to the list of constituents that trigger corrective action requirements to remediate""
""groundwater impacted by CCR disposal activities.  Apart from a subsequent proposal issued on  August 14, 2019, to add a specific, health-based groundwater protection standard for boron,  EPA has yet to take action on this proposal.   • With respect to APS’s Cholla facility, APS’s application for alternative closure was submitted  to EPA on November 30, 2020.  While EPA has deemed APS’s application administratively  “complete,” the Agency’s approval remains pending.  If granted, this application""
""would allow  the continued disposal of CCR within Cholla’s existing unlined CCR surface impoundments  until the required date for ceasing coal-fired boiler operations in April 2025.  This application  will be subject to public comment and, potentially, judicial review.  We expect to have a  proposed decision from EPA regarding Cholla in 2025.   We cannot predict the outcome of these regulatory proceedings or when EPA will take final action  on those matters that are still pending.  Depending on""
""the eventual outcome, the costs associated with  Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 167  APS’s management of CCR could materially increase, which could affect our financial condition, results of  operations, or cash flows. On April 25, 2024, EPA took final action on a proposal to expand the scope of federal CCR  regulations to address the impacts from historical CCR disposal activities that would have ceased prior to  2015.  This new class of CCR management""
""units (“CCRMUs”), which contain at least 1,000 tons of CCR,  broadly encompass any location at an operating coal-fired power plant where CCR would have been placed  on land.  As proposed, this would include not only historically closed landfills and surface impoundments  but also prior applications of CCR beneficial use (with exceptions for historical roadbed and embankment  applications).  Existing CCR regulatory requirements for groundwater monitoring, corrective action,  closure, post-closure""
""site  investigations, the costs associated with APS’s management of CCR could materially increase, which  could affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. APS currently disposes of CCR in ash ponds and dry storage areas at Cholla and Four Corners.   The Navajo Plant disposed of CCR only in a dry landfill storage area.  Additionally, the CCR rule requires  ongoing, phased groundwater monitoring.  As of October 2018, APS has completed the statistical analyses  for its""
""may exist until we have fully completed the corrective  action assessment and final remedy selection process, we cannot predict any ultimate impacts to APS;  however, at this time APS does not believe that any potential changes to the cost estimate from the CCR  rule’s corrective action assessment process for Four Corners or Cholla would have a material impact on its  financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. EPA Power Plant Carbon Regulations.  EPA’s regulation of carbon""
""dioxide emissions from  electric utility power plants has proceeded in fits and starts over most of the last decade.  Starting on  August 3, 2015, EPA finalized the Clean Power Plan, which was the Agency’s first effort at such  regulation through system-wide generation dispatch shifting.  Those regulations were subsequently  repealed by the EPA on June 19, 2019 and replaced by the Affordable Clean Energy (“ACE”) regulations,  which were a far narrower set of rules.  While the U.S. Court of""
""Appeals for the D.C. Circuit subsequently  vacated the ACE regulations on January 19, 2021, and ordered a remand for EPA to develop replacement  regulations consistent with the original 2015 Clean Power Plan, the U.S. Supreme Court subsequently  reversed that decision on June 30, 2022, holding that the Clean Power Plan exceeded EPA’s authority  under the Clean Air Act. Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 168  In the final regulations governing power plant""
""carbon dioxide emissions, released April 25, 2024,  EPA issued emission standards and guidelines for various subcategories of new and existing power plants.   Unlike EPA’s Clean Power Plan regulations from 2015, which took a broad, system-wide approach to  regulating carbon emissions from electric utility fossil-fuel burning power plants, these new federal  regulations are limited to measures that can be installed at individual power plants to limit planet-warming  carbon-dioxide emissions.   As""
""such, for new natural gas-fired combustion turbine power plants, EPA is proposing that carbon  emission performance standards apply based on the annual capacity factors.  For the highest utilization  combustion turbines, EPA is therefore proposing that such facilities be retrofitted for carbon capture and  sequestration or utilization controls (“CCS”) by 2032.  For intermediate or low-load natural gas fired  combustion turbines, those with 40% or less capacity factors, EPA’s regulations would""
""not require add-on  pollution controls.  Instead, natural gas-fired combustion turbines with capacity factors of up to 20% would  be effectively unregulated, while such turbines with capacity factors over 20% and up to 40% would be  subject to carbon dioxide emission rate limitations.  EPA did not finalize standards for existing natural gas- fired combustion turbines but has indicated that it will propose a new set of standards, initiating a separate  rulemaking, for these existing gas-fired""
""power plants within the next year. For coal-fired power plants, instead of imposing regulations based on capacity and utilization, EPA  has finalized subcategories based on planned retirement dates.  This means that facilities retiring before  2032 are effectively exempt from regulation, those that retire between 2032 and 2038 must co-fire with  natural gas starting in 2030, and those that retire in 2039 or later must install CCS controls by 2032.   As of May 10, 2024, several states, electric""
""utility companies, affiliated trade associations, and  other entities filed petitions for review of these regulations in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals.  APS is  participating in that litigation as part of an ad hoc coalition of electric utility companies, independent power  producers, and trade groups, called Electric Generators for a Sensible Transition.  We cannot predict the  outcome of the litigation challenging EPA’s latest carbon emission standards for power plants.  In addition,  the""
""Trump administration has stated that it intends to reverse or substantially revise these standards.  We  cannot predict the outcome of future rulemaking or other regulatory proceedings aimed at changing or  eliminating the current EPA emission standards for power plants. If this regulation remains in effect, it will likely lead to a material increase in APS’s costs to build,  operate, and maintain new, frequently operated gas-fired power plants.  The regulatory deadlines in 2032  by which new,""
""frequently operated gas-fired power plants must install carbon capture and sequestration and  achieve 90% capture efficiency may not be feasible.  Future resource plans and procurement efforts  implicating the development of such new generation remains pending and, as such, at this time APS is not  able to quantify the financial impact associated with EPA’s GHG regulations for power plants. Effluent Limitation Guidelines.  EPA published effluent limitation guidelines (“ELG”) on   October 13,""
""2020, and, based off those guidelines, APS completed a National Pollutant Discharge  Elimination System (“NPDES”) permit modification for Four Corners on December 1, 2023.  The ELG  standards finalized in October 2020 relaxed the “zero discharge” standard for bottom ash transport waters  EPA finalized in September 2015.  However, on April 25, 2024, EPA finalized new ELG regulations that  once again require “zero discharge” standards for flows of bottom ash transport water at power plants like""
""Four Corners.  Nonetheless, for power plants that permanently cease operations by December 31, 2034,  such facilities can continue to comply with the 2020 ELG standards.  APS is currently evaluating its  Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 169  compliance options for Four Corners based on the ELG regulations finalized in April 2024 and is assessing  what impacts the new standards will have on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. EPA""
""Good Neighbor Proposal for Arizona.  On March 15, 2023, EPA issued its final Good  Neighbor Plan for 23 states in order to ensure that the cross-state transport of ozone forming emissions  does not interfere with downwind state compliance with the National Ambient Air Quality Standards  (“NAAQS”).  Thermal power plant emission limitations are a key aspect of these regulations, which  involve emission allowance trading for nitrogen oxide (“NOx”) emissions.  While Arizona was not among  the 23""
""states subject to EPA’s March 2023 final action, EPA announced on January 23, 2024, that it was  proposing to add Arizona and New Mexico (along with two other additional states) to EPA’s NOx  emission allowance trading program finalized last year.  That proposal involves adding these states to the  Good Neighbor Plan and disapproving the corresponding provisions of each state’s State Implementation  Plan.  Because APS operates thermal power plants within Arizona and those portions of the Navajo""
""Nation  within New Mexico, APS’s power plants would be subject to EPA’s Good Neighbor Plan upon finalization  of this proposal.  EPA’s final Good Neighbor Plan is subject to ongoing judicial review in the D.C. Circuit  Court of Appeals.  On June 27, 2024, the U.S. Supreme Court granted a motion to stay the effectiveness of  EPA’s final Good Neighbor Plan pending the resolution of the litigation.  As such, APS will not be  impacted by the Good Neighbor Plan until the outcome of this litigation is""
""finalized.  In addition, on  December 19, 2024, EPA announced that it was withdrawing its proposal to add Arizona (along with other  western states) to the federal Good Neighbor Plan.  As such, while EPA may elect to resume work on and  finalize this proposal in the future, it is unlikely to do so over a near-term horizon.  APS cannot predict the  outcome of any future EPA efforts to add Arizona to the federal Good Neighbor Plan (which depends on  action disapproving the Arizona State""
""Implementation Plan) or whether the Good Neighbor Plan itself will  remain in effect pending the outcome of judicial review in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals.  Should the  Good Neighbor Plan ultimately be imposed on APS and its operations in Arizona and New Mexico, it  would have material impact on both the costs to operate current APS power plants and APS’s ability to  develop new thermal generation to serve load.  At this time, APS cannot predict the impact on the  Company’s financial""
""condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Revised Mercury and Air Toxics Standard (“MATS”) Proposal.  On April 25, 2024, EPA  finalized revisions to the existing MATS regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollution from  existing coal-fired power plants.  The final regulations increase the stringency of filterable particulate  matter limits used to demonstrate compliance with MATS and require the use of continuous emissions  monitoring systems to ensure compliance (as opposed to""
""periodic performance testing).  These final  regulations will take effect for existing coal-fired power plants, such as Four Corners, within three years of  publication in the Federal Register.  Based on APS’s assessment of the revised MATS regulations, this  final rule is unlikely to have a material impact on plant operations or require significant capital  expenditures to ensure compliance. Other environmental rules that could involve material compliance costs include those related to""
""effluent limitations, the ozone national ambient air quality standard and other rules or matters involving the  Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Endangered Species Act, RCRA, Superfund, the Navajo Nation, and  water supplies for our power plants.  The financial impact of complying with current and future  environmental rules could jeopardize the economic viability of APS’s fossil-fuel powered plants or the  willingness or ability of power plant participants to fund any required equipment upgrades""
""or continue their  participation in these plants.  The economics of continuing to own certain resources, particularly our coal  plants, may deteriorate, warranting early retirement of those plants, which may result in asset impairments.   Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 170  APS would seek recovery in rates for the book value of any remaining investments in the plants, as well as  other costs related to early retirement, but cannot predict whether it would""
""obtain such recovery.   Four Corners National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (“NPDES”) Permit The latest NPDES permit for Four Corners was issued on September 30, 2019.  Based upon a  November 1, 2019, filing by several environmental groups, the Environmental Appeals Board (“EAB”)  took up review of the Four Corners NPDES Permit.  The EAB denied the environmental group petition on  September 30, 2020.  While on January 22, 2021, the environmental groups filed a petition for review of""
""the EAB’s decision with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, the parties to the litigation  (including APS) finalized a settlement on May 2, 2022.  This settlement requires investigation of thermal  wastewater discharges from Four Corners, administratively closes the litigation filed in January 2021, and  APS does not expect the outcome to have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations,  or cash flows. BCE Kūpono Solar BCE and Ameresco jointly owned a""
""special purpose entity that sponsored the Kūpono Solar  Project.  This project is a 42 MW solar and battery storage facility in Oʻahu, Hawaii that supplies energy  and capacity under a 20-year power purchase agreement with Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc.  The  Kūpono Solar Project achieved commercial operations in June 2024.  On April 18, 2023, the Kūpono  special purpose entity entered into a $140 million non-recourse construction financing agreement.  On  August 14, 2024, the construction""
""guarantees relating to the Kūpono Solar Project sale-leaseback financing (see  additional information below regarding these guarantees).  See Note 20 for information relating to the BCE  Sale. Financial Assurances   In the normal course of business, we obtain standby letters of credit and surety bonds from  financial institutions and other third parties.  These instruments guarantee our own future performance and  provide third parties with financial and performance assurance in the event we do""
""expected credit  losses, to be immaterial. In connection with PNW Power’s investments in minority ownership positions in the Clear Creek  wind farm in Missouri and Nobles 2 wind farm in Minnesota, Pinnacle West has guaranteed the obligations  of PNW Power to make production tax credit funding payments to borrowers of the projects (the “PTC  Guarantees”).  The amounts guaranteed by Pinnacle West are reduced as payments are made under the  respective guarantee agreements.  As of December 31, 2024,""
""there is approximately $29 million of  remaining guarantees relating to these PTC Guarantees that are expected to terminate by 2031.  Pinnacle West has issued various performance guarantees in connection with the Kūpono Solar  Project investment financing and is exposed to losses relating to these guarantees upon the occurrence of  certain events that we consider to be remote.  Subsequent to the BCE Sale, Pinnacle West continues to  maintain these guarantees.  See Note 20.  Pinnacle West has not""
""needed to perform under these guarantees.   Maximum obligations are not explicitly stated in the guarantees and cannot be reasonably estimated.   Ameresco is obligated to reimburse Pinnacle West for any payments made by Pinnacle West under such  guarantees.  We consider the fair value of these guarantees, including expected credit losses, to be  immaterial.  The details of the guarantees are as follows:  • Pinnacle West committed to certain performance guarantees tied to the Kūpono Solar Project""
""achieving certain construction and operation milestones.  These performance guarantees  expired in August 2024.  Pinnacle West has no on-going exposure under these construction- related guarantees.    • Under the Kūpono Solar Project sale-leaseback financing, Pinnacle West has committed to  certain performance guarantees that may apply upon the occurrence of specified events, such as  uninsured loss events.  Ameresco has agreed to make efforts to refinance the project and  eliminate these""
""guarantees prior to 2030.  11.   Asset Retirement Obligations    In 2024, the Company revised its cost estimates for existing AROs for the following: • Cholla coal-fired power plant related to the closure of ponds and facilities, which resulted in an  increase to the ARO of approximately $63 million, primarily due to cost estimates associated  with the CCR Rule. • Four Corners coal-fired power plant, which resulted in an increase of approximately  $82 million, primarily due to cost estimates""
""associated with the CCR Rule. Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 172  • Navajo, a decommissioned coal-fired power plant, which resulted in an increase of  approximately $8 million. • Palo Verde nuclear plant, which resulted in an increase of approximately $1 million. • Solar, which resulted in a decrease to the ARO of approximately $11 million, primarily due to  the reduced cost of solar panel disposal. APS has also recorded the initial investigation and""
""on the outcome of those evaluations and site  investigations, the costs associated with APS’s management of CCR could materially increase, which  could affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In 2023, the Company revised its cost estimates for existing ARO for the following: • Cholla coal-fired power plant related to the closure of ponds and facilities, which resulted in an  increase to the ARO of approximately $71 million, primarily due to changes in the planned""
""pond closure methodology and increased corrective action cost estimates associated with the  CCR Rule.  • Four Corners coal-fired power plant, which resulted in a decrease of approximately $7 million. • Navajo coal-fired plant, a decommissioned coal-fired power plant, which resulted in an  increase of approximately $8 million. • Palo Verde received a new decommissioning study, which resulted in an increase to the ARO  in the amount of $63 million, an increase in the plant in service of $59""
""Recurring Fair Value Measurements   We apply recurring fair value measurements to cash equivalents, derivative instruments, and  investments held in the nuclear decommissioning trusts and other special use funds.  On an annual basis,  we apply fair value measurements to plan assets held in our retirement and other benefit plans.  See Note 7  for fair value discussion of plan assets held in our retirement and other benefit plans.   Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL""
""STATEMENTS 174  Cash Equivalents   Cash equivalents represent certain investments in money market funds that are valued using quoted  prices in active markets. Risk Management Activities — Energy Derivative Instruments   Exchange traded commodity contracts are valued using unadjusted quoted prices.  For non- exchange traded commodity contracts, we calculate fair value based on the average of the bid and offer  price, discounted to reflect net present value.  We maintain certain valuation""
""counterparties and the overall diversification of the portfolio.   We maintain credit policies that management believes minimize overall credit risk.   Certain non-exchange traded commodity contracts are valued based on unobservable inputs due to  the long-term nature of contracts, characteristics of the product, or the unique location of the transactions.   Long-dated energy transactions may consist of observable valuations for the near-term portion and  unobservable valuations for the long-""
""primary valuation technique used to calculate the fair value is the extrapolation of forward  pricing curves using observable market data for more liquid delivery points in the same region and actual  transactions at more illiquid delivery points.   When the unobservable portion is significant to the overall valuation of the transaction, the entire  transaction is classified as Level 3.    Investments Held in Nuclear Decommissioning Trusts and Other Special Use Funds   The nuclear""
""decommissioning trusts and other special use funds invest in fixed income and equity  securities.  Other special use funds include the coal reclamation escrow account, the active union employee  medical account, and the Captive.  See Note 18 for additional discussion about our investment accounts. We value investments in fixed income and equity securities using information provided by our  trustees and escrow agent.  Our trustees and escrow agent use pricing services that utilize the valuation""
""certificates of deposit, variable  rate notes, time deposit accounts, U.S. Treasury and Agency obligations, U.S. Treasury repurchase  agreements, commercial paper, and other short-term instruments.  These instruments are valued using  active market prices or utilizing observable inputs described above.   Equity Securities The nuclear decommissioning trusts’ equity security investments are held indirectly through  commingled funds.  The commingled funds are valued using the funds’ NAV as a""
""to be traded in an active market.  As these instruments  are valued using NAV, as a practical expedient, they have not been classified within the fair value  hierarchy. The nuclear decommissioning trusts and other special use funds may also hold equity securities that  include exchange traded mutual funds and money market accounts for short-term liquidity purposes.  These  short-term, highly-liquid investments are valued using active market prices.  Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO""
""—   —   409,616 (c)   409,616  U.S. Treasury debt   319,734   —   —   —    319,734  Corporate debt   —   188,317   —   —    188,317  Mortgage-backed securities   —   208,306   —   —    208,306  Municipal bonds   —   59,323   —   —    59,323  Other fixed income   —   5,653   —   —    5,653  Subtotal nuclear decommissioning trusts   330,798   461,599   —   408,849    1,201,246  Other special use funds: Equity securities   40,991   —   —   2,196 (b)   43,187  U.S. Treasury debt   319,594   —   —""
""classified in the fair value hierarchy.    Fair Value Measurements Classified as Level 3   The significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement of our energy derivative  contracts include broker quotes that cannot be validated as an observable input primarily due to the long- term nature of the quote or other characteristics of the product.  Significant changes in these inputs in  isolation would result in significantly higher or lower fair value measurements.  Changes in our""
""derivative Level 3 instruments at December 31, 2024, and December 31, 2023: December 31, 2024  Fair Value (thousands)  Valuation Significant Weighted- Average Commodity Contracts Assets Liabilities Technique Unobservable Input Range  (b) Electricity Forward  Contracts (a) $  708 $  21,890  Discounted  cash flows Electricity forward  price (per MWh) $25.25 - $151.11 $106.06 Natural Gas Forward  Contracts (a)   6,468   325  Discounted  cash flows Natural gas forward  price (per MMBtu) $(0.89) -""
""$1.47 $0.71 Total $  7,176 $  22,215  (a) Includes swaps and physical and financial contracts. (b) Unobservable inputs were weighted by the relative fair value of the instrument.  December 31, 2023  Fair Value  (thousands)  Valuation Significant Weighted- Average Commodity Contracts Assets Liabilities Technique Unobservable Input Range (b) Electricity Forward  Contracts (a) $  6,587 $  658  Discounted  cash flows Electricity forward  price (per MWh) $ 37.79 - $259.04 $158.08 Natural Gas Forward""
""Contracts (a)   29   1,037  Discounted  cash flows Natural gas forward  price (per MMBtu) $0.00 - $0.08 $0.03 Total $  6,616 $  1,695  (a) Includes swaps and physical and financial contracts. (b) Unobservable inputs were weighted by the relative fair value of the instrument. Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 179  The following table shows the changes in fair value for our risk management activities’ assets  and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a""
""earnings related to instruments still held at end of period $  — $  —               Transfers in or out of Level 3 are typically related to our long-dated energy transactions that  extend beyond available quoted periods. Financial Instruments Not Carried at Fair Value   The carrying value of our short-term borrowings approximate fair value and are classified within  Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.  See Note 6 for our long-term debt fair values.   13.  Common Stock Equity and Earnings Per""
""upon Pinnacle West’s total shareholder return (“TSR”) in  relation to the TSR of other companies in a specified utility index (i.e., the TSR component).  The second  performance criteria is based upon Pinnacle West’s earnings per share (“EPS”) performance relative to an  Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 184  approved target (i.e., the EPS component).  The third performance criteria is based upon APS’s clean MW  installed of renewable or other carbon free""
""resources compared to the approved target (i.e., the Clean  component).  The exact number of shares issued is calculated separately for each performance component  and can vary from 0% to 200% of the target award for each separate performance criteria.  Shares received  include a dividend equivalent feature that treats accrued dividends as reinvested, from the date of grant  until the date of payment, equal to the number of vested performance shares.  If the award is forfeited or if  the""
""Management evaluates the probability of meeting the EPS and Clean metric component  at each balance sheet date.  If the EPS and Clean metric component criteria are not ultimately achieved, no  compensation cost is recognized relating to the EPS and Clean metric component, and any previously  recognized compensation cost is reversed.  Compensation cost relating to the TSR component of the  respective awards is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation valuation model, with compensation cost""
""recognized ratably over the requisite service period, regardless of the number of shares that actually vest.   15.  Derivative Accounting     Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to commodity price and  transportation costs of electricity, natural gas, emissions allowances, and interest rates.  Risks associated  with market volatility are managed by utilizing various physical and financial derivative instruments,  including futures, forwards, options, and swaps.  As part""
""of our overall risk management program, we may  use derivative instruments to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and natural gas.  Derivative  instruments that meet certain hedge accounting criteria may be designated as cash flow hedges and are  used to limit our exposure to cash flow variability on forecasted transactions.  The changes in market value  of such instruments have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged transactions.  Derivative  instruments are also entered into""
""for economic hedging purposes.  While economic hedges may mitigate  exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices, these instruments have not been designated as accounting  hedges.  Contracts that have the same terms (quantities, delivery points and delivery periods) and for which  power does not flow are netted, which reduces both revenues and fuel and purchased power costs in our  Consolidated Statements of Income, but does not impact our financial condition, net income, or cash flows.    Table""
""such, are not subject to mark-to-market  accounting and are excluded from the derivative disclosures below.  Energy Derivatives For its regulated operations, APS defers for future rate treatment 100% of the unrealized gains and  losses on energy derivatives pursuant to the PSA mechanism that would otherwise be recognized in  income.  Realized gains and losses on energy derivatives are deferred in accordance with the PSA to the  extent the amounts are above or below the Base Fuel Rate.  See Note""
""3.  Gains and losses from energy  derivatives in the following tables represent the amounts reflected in income before the effect of PSA  deferrals. The following table shows the outstanding gross notional volume of energy derivatives, which  represent both purchases and sales (does not reflect net position): Quantity Commodity Unit of Measure December 31, 2024 December 31, 2023 Power GWh   1,051   1,212  Gas Billion cubic feet   235   200    Gains and Losses from Energy Derivative Instruments""
""For the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, APS had no energy derivative instruments  in designated accounting hedging relationships.    The following table provides information about gains and losses from energy derivative  instruments not designated as accounting hedging instruments (dollars in thousands): Financial Statement  Year Ended December 31, Commodity Contracts Location 2024 2023 2022 Net Gain (Loss) Recognized in Income Fuel and purchased  power (a)   (88,522)   (370,145)""
""307,287  (a) Amounts are before the effect of PSA deferrals. Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 186  Energy Derivative Instruments in the Consolidated Balance Sheets Our energy derivative transactions are typically executed under standardized or customized  agreements, which include collateral requirements and, in the event of a default, would allow for the  netting of positive and negative exposures associated with a single counterparty.  Agreements that""
""allow  for the offsetting of positive and negative exposures associated with a single counterparty are considered  master netting arrangements.  Transactions with counterparties that have master netting arrangements are  offset and reported net on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Transactions that do not allow for offsetting of  positive and negative positions are reported gross on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We do not offset a counterparty’s current energy derivative contracts with the""
""counterparty’s non- current energy derivative contracts, although our master netting arrangements would allow current and  non-current positions to be offset in the event of a default.  These types of transactions may include non- derivative instruments, derivatives qualifying for scope exceptions, trade receivables and trade payables  arising from settled positions, and other forms of non-cash collateral (such as letters of credit).  These types  of transactions are excluded from the offsetting""
""event of nonperformance or nonpayment by energy derivative  counterparties and have risk management contracts with many energy derivative counterparties.  As of  December 31, 2024, we have one counterparty for which our exposure represents approximately 26% of  Pinnacle West’s $16.6 million of risk management assets.  This exposure relates to an ISDA master  agreement with the respective counterparty.  The counterparty is rated as investment grade by Standard &  Poor’s.  Our risk management""
""process assesses and monitors the financial exposure of all counterparties.   Despite the fact that the great majority of our trading counterparties’ debt is rated as investment grade by  the credit rating agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these counterparties could default,  resulting in a material impact on consolidated earnings for a given period.  Counterparties in the portfolio  consist principally of financial institutions, major energy companies, municipalities""
""Valuation adjustments are established representing our  estimated credit losses on our overall exposure to counterparties.   Certain of our energy derivative instrument contracts contain credit-risk-related contingent features  including, among other things, investment grade credit rating provisions, credit-related cross-default  provisions, and adequate assurance provisions.  Adequate assurance provisions allow a counterparty with  reasonable grounds for uncertainty to demand additional""
""collateral based on subjective events and/or  conditions.  For those energy derivative instruments in a net liability position, with investment grade credit  contingencies, the counterparties could demand additional collateral if our debt credit rating were to fall  below investment grade (below BBB- for Standard & Poor’s or Fitch or Baa3 for Moody’s).   Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 188  The following table provides information about our energy""
""energy related non-derivative instrument contracts, including energy storage lease  contracts, with investment grade credit-related contingent features, which could also require us to post  additional collateral of approximately $416 million if our debt credit ratings were to fall below investment  grade. 16.  Other Income and Other Expense    The following table provides detail of Pinnacle West’s Consolidated other income and other  expense for 2024, 2023, and 2022 (dollars in thousands):""
""Variable Interest Entities    Pinnacle West Captive Insurance Cell VIE To support our overall insurance program, Pinnacle West established a captive insurance cell to  insure certain risks of Pinnacle West and our subsidiaries.  The Captive is a protected separate cell captive  insurance company sponsored by Energy Insurance Services, Inc (“EISI”).  EISI is owned by Energy  Insurance Mutual Limited Company and allows participating member sponsoring organizations, such as  Pinnacle West, to""
""liability at Palo Verde.  See Note 10 for details regarding nuclear  liability insurance.  Claim payments to the insureds can only be made up to the amount of the Captive’s  available assets.  In the event that claims exceed the Captive’s available assets, Pinnacle West may be  required to provide additional funding to the Captive.  In addition to policies obtained through the Captive,  Pinnacle West also has insurance policies purchased through third-party insurers that may provide  coverage if""
""restricted and may only be used for payment to the noncontrolling interest  holders.  These assets are reported on our consolidated financial statements.    APS is exposed to losses relating to these VIEs upon the occurrence of certain events that APS  does not consider to be reasonably likely to occur.  Under certain circumstances (for example, the NRC  issuing specified violation orders with respect to Palo Verde or the occurrence of specified nuclear events),  APS would be required to make""
""for a discussion of how fair value is determined and the classification of the investments  within the fair value hierarchy.  The investments in each trust or account are restricted for use and are  intended to fund specified costs and activities as further described for each fund below. Nuclear Decommissioning Trusts — APS established external decommissioning trusts in  accordance with NRC regulations to fund the future costs APS expects to incur to decommission Palo  Verde.  Third-party""
""liabilities. Coal Reclamation Escrow Account — APS has investments restricted for the future coal mine  reclamation funding related to Four Corners.  This escrow account is primarily invested in fixed income  securities.  Earnings and proceeds from sales of securities are reinvested in the escrow account.  Because of  the ability of APS to recover coal reclamation costs in rates, and in accordance with the regulatory  treatment, APS has deferred realized and unrealized gains and losses""
""(including credit losses) in other  regulatory liabilities.  Activities relating to APS coal mine reclamation escrow account investments are  included within the other special use funds in the table below. Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 192  Active Union Employee Medical Account — APS has investments restricted for paying active  union employee medical costs.  These investments may be used to pay active union employee medical  costs incurred in the current""
""the exception of the Captive’s investments included within Other Special Use Funds. The following tables present the unrealized gains and losses based on the original cost of the  investment and summarizes the fair value of the nuclear decommissioning trusts and other special use fund  assets (dollars in thousands):  December 31, 2024   Fair Value Total Unrealized Gains Total Unrealized Losses Investment Type: Nuclear  Decommissioning  Trusts Other  Special Use  Funds Total Equity securities $""
""of Other Special Use Fund investments in  equity securities relating to the Captive. December 31, 2023   Fair Value Total Unrealized Gains Total Unrealized Losses Investment Type: Nuclear  Decommissioning  Trusts Other  Special Use  Funds Total Equity securities $  420,680 $  40,991 $  461,671  $ 336,555  $  —  Available for sale-fixed income securities   781,333   319,594  1,100,927 (a)   21,518    (40,868)  Other   (767)   2,196   1,429 (b)   39    —  Total $  1,201,246 $  362,781 $ 1,564,027""
""other special use funds, excluding amounts  reimbursed to the Company for active union employee medical claims from the active union employee  medical account. Fixed Income Securities Contractual Maturities The fair value of APS’s fixed income securities, summarized by contractual maturities, at  December 31, 2024, is as follows (dollars in thousands):     Nuclear  Decommissioning  Trusts Coal Reclamation  Escrow Account Active Union  Employee Medical  Account Total Less than one year $  19,868""
""structured to close in multiple stages that  were completed on January 12, 2024.  Certain investments and assets that BCE previously held, including  the TransCanyon joint venture and holdings in the two Tenaska wind farm investments, were not included  in the BCE Sale and were instead transferred to PNW Power, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pinnacle West.   The BCE Sale did not include a $31 million equity bridge loan relating to BCE’s Los Alamitos project,  which was paid in full by Pinnacle""
""31,  2014 Form 10-Q Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473 5/2/2014 10.10(1)   Pinnacle West APS   Asset Purchase and Power Exchange  Agreement dated September 21, 1990  between APS and PacifiCorp, as  amended as of October 11, 1990 and  as of July 18, 1991 10.1 to APS’s June 30, 1991  Form 10-Q Report, File No. 1-4473   8/8/1991 10.10(2)   Pinnacle West APS   Long-Term Power Transaction  Agreement dated September 21, 1990  between APS and PacifiCorp, as  amended as of October 11, 1990, and  as of""
""July 8, 1991 10.2 to APS’s June 30, 1991  Form 10-Q Report, File No. 1-4473   8/8/1991 Exhibit No.   Registrant(s)   Description Previously Filed as Exhibit: a   Date Filed Table of Contents  218  10.10(2)(a)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 1 dated April 5,  1995 to the Long-Term Power  Transaction Agreement and Asset  Purchase and Power Exchange  Agreement between PacifiCorp and  APS 10.3 to APS’s 1995 Form 10-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   3/29/1996 10.10(3)   Pinnacle West APS   Restated""
""Agent, Co-Sustainability  Structuring Agent and Issuing Bank,  and the lenders and other parties  thereto  10.1 to Pinnacle West/APS April 10,  2023 Form 8-K Report, File No.  1-8962 4/10/2023 10.11(1)(a) Pinnacle West Amendment No. 1 to the Second  Amended and Restated Five-Year  Credit Agreement, dated as of April  10, 2023, among Pinnacle West, as  Borrower, Barclays Bank PLC, as  Agent, Co-Sustainability Structuring  Agent and Issuing Bank, and the  lenders and other parties thereto 10.1 to""
""Pinnacle West/APS August 2,  2024 Form 8-K Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473 8/2/2024 10.11(2) Pinnacle West APS Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as  of April 10, 2023, among APS, as  Borrower, Barclays Bank PLC, as  Agent, Co-Sustainability Structuring  Agent and Issuing Bank, and the  lenders and other parties thereto 10.2 to Pinnacle West/APS April 10,  2023 Form 8-K Report, File No.  1-8962 4/10/2023 10.11(2)(a) APS Amendment No. 1 to the Five-Year  Credit Agreement, dated as of April""
""10, 2023, among APS, as Borrower,  Barclays Bank PLC, as Agent, Co- Sustainability Structuring Agent and  Issuing Bank, and the lenders and  other parties thereto 10.2 to Pinnacle West/APS August 2,  2024 Form 8-K Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473 8/2/2024 10.12(1)c   Pinnacle West APS   Facility Lease, dated as of August 1,  1986, between U.S. Bank National  Association, successor to State Street  Bank and Trust Company, as  successor to The First National Bank  of Boston, in its capacity as""
""Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473 5/5/2021 10.13(1)   Pinnacle West APS   Agreement between Pinnacle West  Energy Corporation and APS for  Transportation and Treatment of  Effluent by and between Pinnacle  West Energy Corporation and APS  dated as of the 10th day of April,  2001 10.102 to Pinnacle West/APS 2004  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473   3/16/2005 10.13(2)   Pinnacle West APS   Agreement for the Transfer and Use  of Wastewater and Effluent by and  between APS, SRP and PWE dated""
""June 1, 2001 10.103 to Pinnacle West/APS 2004  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473   3/16/2005 10.13(3)   Pinnacle West APS   Agreement for the Sale and Purchase  of Wastewater Effluent dated  November 13, 2000, by and between  the City of Tolleson, Arizona, APS  and SRP 10.104 to Pinnacle West/APS 2004  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473   3/16/2005 10.13(4)   Pinnacle West APS   Operating Agreement for the Co- Ownership of Wastewater Effluent  dated November 16, 2000 by""
""Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473   5/6/2010 10.14(1)   Pinnacle West APS   Contract, dated July 21, 1984, with  DOE providing for the disposal of  nuclear fuel and/or high-level  radioactive waste, ANPP 10.31 to Pinnacle West’s Form S-14  Registration Statement, File  No. 2-96386   3/13/1985 10.15(1)   Pinnacle West APS   Territorial Agreement between APS  and SRP 10.1 to APS’s March 31, 1998  Form 10-Q Report, File No. 1-4473   5/15/1998 10.15(2)   Pinnacle West APS   Power Coordination""
