""Sustainable progress for an enduring enterprise 2024 Corporate Responsibility Report  2 Message from leadership  4 Our company   5 Building and sustaining   long-term value     6 Key facts     7 Operational performance       9 Financial discipline  11 Environment  13 Environmental responsibility         14 Climate strategy     27 Innovation   36 Social       39 Empowered employees          40 Safety and health    46 Community engagement         54 Supply chain integrity       58 Customers    60""
""Energy reliability   61 Customer satisfaction        64 Energy affordability         66 Economic development         68 Governance   69 Governance framework         70 Cybersecurity        75 Stakeholder transparency     76 Government relations         78 Awards and recognition       81 Appendix     82 Forward-looking statement    83 WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2024 Corporate Responsibility Report Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  3 About this""
""report  This annual Corporate Responsibility Report is a  comprehensive overview of our sustainability-related  performance for 2024. The information presented in this  report is prepared in alignment with the Sustainability  Accounting Standards Board (SASB) framework and,  where relevant, the Task Force on Climate-Related  Financial Disclosures (TCFD), with additional guidance  from the Global Reporting Initiative  (GRI). Report sections  reflect the 17 priority sustainability issues we have""
""identified as most important to our company and our  stakeholders.  Delivering affordable, reliable and clean energy to our  customers. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Building  and maintaining safe, resilient infrastructure. These  imperatives continue to drive our decision-making, and  the results are clear.   As you will see, we are working to build a bright,  sustainable future while providing the  energy our  customers depend on. This report principally covers the year 2024 for WEC""
""Energy Group Inc. (WEC) and its  subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, and some content also reflects  2025 information, due  to the timing of publication. The performance data is focused on the operations of Wisconsin  Electric Power Co. and Wisconsin Gas LLC, doing business as We Energies, and Wisconsin  Public Service Corp. in Wisconsin; Michigan Gas Utilities Corp. and Upper Michigan Energy  Resources Corp. in Michigan; Minnesota Energy Resources Corp. in Minnesota; The Peoples  Gas Light""
""and Coke Co. and North Shore Gas Co. in Illinois; and WEC Infrastructure  LLC and  its subsidiaries. Except where otherwise specified, report content does not include performance data from  external organizations or activities over which the company has limited control or influence,  such as contractors and suppliers. We are headquartered in Milwaukee,  Wisconsin, near the shore of Lake  Michigan, and supply energy to  customers across the U.S. Midwest. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE""
""RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  4  A message from the president and chief executive officer Across the Midwest, 4.7 million customers depend on  WEC Energy Group companies to power and heat their  homes and businesses safely and reliably. We take  that responsibility seriously, and we’re dedicated to a  sustainable strategy as we expand our operations to  meet their needs. In the years ahead, we expect to see unprecedented  electric demand growth from""
""economic development  in our region. We are working diligently and collaborating  with large customers to meet their requirements while  making significant progress toward a cleaner energy  future. A balanced generation mix, including modern  natural gas generation and renewable energy, is key to  maintaining essential reliability and flexibility year-round. The following pages describe the ways in which we are  maintaining that balance — while serving our customers,  supporting our employees""
""and communities, and  protecting our environment.  We continued to make good progress across our  business in advancing our “all of the above” approach  toward reshaping our generation fleet. As we added  solar, batteries and natural gas generation, we were able  to retire older, less efficient fossil generation units. We  also completed construction of a liquefied natural gas  facility to support reliability at times of peak demand. To help chart our path forward, we continue to invest in""
""research, technology and system improvement. We look  forward to significant opportunities ahead, guided by our  commitment to excellence and good corporate citizenship. Thank you, as always, for your engagement. Scott J. Lauber President and Chief Executive Officer WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  Our company 5 Building and sustaining   long-term value   6 Key facts     7  Operational performance      9 Financial""
""discipline  11 Our ongoing mission is to deliver the  reliable energy needed to power a growing  economy and provide essential services to  millions of customers every day. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  6 Building and   sustaining   long-term value Our goal is to continue to build and sustain long-term value  for our  customers, communities and stockholders in a rapidly  transforming energy arena. WEC Energy Group’s""
""disciplined  approach to capital allocation and operational excellence  positions us as a leader in the clean energy transition. Care for our people,   our customers and   our communities with   safety at the heart of   our business Enhance customer  satisfaction through  technology  Invest in  low- and   no-carbon generation, as  we  strive to improve   our environmental   footprint Modernize and enhance   the efficiency and  resilience of our electric  and natural gas distribution  operations""
""Demonstrate financial  discipline in every  decision to keep rates   affordable In our strategic planning,   we take into account important  developments in our industry,   including new technologies,   customer preferences and  prices, and energy resiliency  efforts — all while considering  sustainability priorities.   WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  7 Key facts  Customer data as of year-end 2024. WEC Energy Group is""
""one of the nation’s leading energy companies, with the   strategic vision, operational expertise and financial resources to meet the  electricity and natural gas needs of customers across the Midwest. WEC  Infrastructure, a subsidiary of  WEC Energy Group, owns majority  interests in  wind and solar energy  facilities in the U.S. These resources   are providing carbon-free energy  for large customers outside of our  traditional service area through long- term  power purchase agreements. Total""
""customer accounts:  4.7 million Customers:  We Energies Electric: 1,175,000  Natural gas: 1,179,000 Wisconsin Public Service Electric: 470,000  Natural gas: 347,000 Peoples Gas Natural gas: 894,000 North Shore Gas Natural gas: 165,000 Minnesota Energy Resources Natural gas: 254,000 Michigan Gas Utilities  Natural gas: 187,000 Upper Michigan Energy  Resources Electric: 37,000  Natural gas: 5,000 WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers""
""Governance  8 Owned  capacity (megawatts)1 2022 2023 2024 Coal 3,178 3,210 2,698 Natural gas       3,717 4,109 4,192  Renewables — utility2 841 1,018 1268 Renewables — WEC Infrastructure 1,334 1,845 2,404 Total 9,070 10,182 10,562 1   Capacity for our electric generation facilities, other than wind and solar generating facilities , is  based on rated capacity, which is the net power output under average operating conditions with  equipment in an average state of repair as of a given month in a""
""given year. Values are primarily  based on the net dependable expected capacity ratings for the following summer, established  by tests, and may change slightly from year to year . Capacity for our wind and solar generating  facilities is based on nameplate capacity. 2  Includes hydroelectric, biomass, solar and wind generation serving our utility companies. ﻿ Owned and contracted generation ( gigawatt-hours)1   2022 2023 2024 Fossil fuel generation       Coal 13,071 13,100 13,147 Natural gas 2""
""15,009 15,214 15,688 Oil 4 2 1 Zero-carbon generation Nuclear 8,704 8,968 9,003 Renewable Biofuels 449 432 460 Hydro 1,477 1,397 1,242 Solar 3 451 717 887 Wind 3 5,072 5,956 6,466 Total generation 44,237 45,786 46,894 Total fossil fuel generation 28,084 28,316 28,836 Total zero-carbon generation          16,153 17,470 18,058 Total renewable generation 7,449 8,502 9,055 1     Owned and contracted generation varies annually due to regional supply and demand profiles.  2          Includes oil used""
""in  dual fuel gas/oil units.  3      Includes WEC  Infrastructure majority-owned  solar and wind facilities.   * ATC is accounted for using the equity method; this represents WEC Energy Group's  portion of the asset base. 2% LNG generation   and distribution  Assets by jurisdiction MI/MN WEC Infrastructure WI     63% IL    16% 4% 7% ATC*  10% Natural gas   distribution  32% Electric  generation  and  distribution  49% Assets by business type  WEC Infrastructure 7% 10% Electric  transmission*""
""Data as of year-end 2024. Diverse and transforming business portfolio WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  9 Operational performance Our operational strategy is driven by the need to provide affordable, reliable and clean energy  to the millions of customers who depend on us. Robust planning for growth and  sustainability As we anticipate unprecedented electric demand  growth in the years ahead, we continue to invest  in""
""and acquire assets consistent with our strategic  plans. Energy technologies and economics have  allowed us to make cost-effective investments in  wind and solar generation, as well as lower-emission  options for our natural gas distribution business. A  balanced generation mix supports  emissions reduction  while preserving reliability and affordable energy rates. Modernizing our natural gas-fueled generating fleet Modern, efficient natural gas generation will serve as  a critical resource in""
""our energy transformation. To that  end, we plan to add more than 1,900 megawatts (MW)  of new combustion turbines and reciprocating internal  combustion engines (RICE) between 2025 and 2029.  The Public Service Commission of Wisconsin has  approved our proposals for two new sources of  natural gas generation: •   1,100 MW of modern simple-cycle combustion  turbines at our existing Oak Creek Power Plant  site, with an expected investment of $1.2 billion. •        128 MW of state-of-the-art""
""generation using RICE  units near our Paris Generating Station, with an  expected investment of $300 million. To support the Oak Creek project, we also are  proposing to build a 33-mile lateral with an expected  investment of approximately $200 million. This lateral  would provide firm deliverability of natural gas to the  Oak Creek site for those units, as well as our Oak  Creek Power the Future  coal-fueled units, where  we plan to enhance fuel flexibility by co-firing with  natural gas. Zero-""
""carbon energy investments We continue to see a strong pipeline of opportunities  ahead for investment in clean energy across our  business. Between 2025 and 2029, we plan to invest  $9.1 billion to build and own approximately 4,300  MW of additional renewable energy capacity for  our regulated utilities — more than quadrupling our  carbon-free generation.  We have issued green bonds linked to We Energies  and Wisconsin Public Service (WPS) renewable  energy projects: Red Barn Wind Park, Two""
""Creeks  Solar Park, Badger Hollow I and II solar parks,  and Paris Solar-Battery Park. Through 2024, these  offerings have supported  $1.0 billion in construction  costs related to our renewable generation projects. RICE  units WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  10 Supporting reliability and system integrity We are committed to providing reliable electric and  natural gas service while maintaining the safety and""
""integrity of our system. We have made significant  reliability- and resiliency-related investments in  recent years, and plan to continue strengthening our  energy delivery infrastructure. System hardening Reliability is a key area of focus as we deliver  electricity across approximately 72,400 miles of  overhead and underground lines. Between 2025 and  2029, we expect to invest approximately $4.5 billion  in our electric distribution system, helping to address  aging electric infrastructure,""
""bury power lines and  further our system hardening against severe weather. Liquefied natural gas facilities Extreme weather conditions in recent years have  shown Wisconsin needs more natural gas peaking  capacity at the highest-demand times on the  coldest days. Between 2023 and 2024, We Energies  finished building two new liquefied natural gas  (LNG) facilities, Bluff Creek and Ixonia, each of which  provides 1 billion cubic feet of natural gas supply to  meet peak demand. We also have""
""proposed a new storage facility at the  Oak Creek Power Plant site, with a planned  investment of approximately $456 million. This facility  would have the capacity to store 2 billion cubic feet  (Bcf) of LNG to support both our generation and our  gas distribution system. In total, we expect to invest  approximately $1.4 billion for 6 Bcf of LNG storage in  Wisconsin between 2025 and 2029. Transforming business processes and  modernizing technology Our companies are focused on delivering""
""exceptional  customer care while integrating and improving business  processes. Employees work to provide the best value  for customers by embracing change, leveraging  their capabilities and expertise, and using creative  solutions. We expect these efforts to continue to  drive operational efficiency and customer satisfaction. Enhancing reliability and customer experience Through the multiyear Energy Delivery Program, we  are implementing new capabilities and standard  processes for customer""
""service, natural gas and  electric operations, work management, and field  operations. The program already has enhanced  customer experience with improved mobile and  interactive voice response technology. Further  progress in 2024 included the consolidation of  systems for automated crew dispatch across our  companies.  Improvements are underway for our outage  management, geographic information system,  and work and asset management systems, as well  as implementations of new capabilities""
""through  advanced distribution management systems and  GPS as-built drawing tools. Using common systems  and processes reduces costs, provides greater  flexibility and enhances the consistent delivery of  exceptional service to customers. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  11 Financial discipline Across our business, our focus on financial discipline and efficiency benefits our operations, customers and stockholders.  We""
""Environmental Social Customers Governance  12 Issuer credit ratings Entity S&P rating Moody’s rating  WEC Energy Group  A- Baa1 Wisconsin Electric  A- A2 Wisconsin Gas A A3 Wisconsin Public Service  A- A2 Peoples Gas  A- A2 Strong financial condition  supported by  a healthy  balance sheet and stable  operating cash flows $28.0 WEC Infrastructure (WECI) Electric Transmission (ATC)* Gas Distribution** Electric Distribution Wisconsin LNG Capacity Electric Generation $3.2 $4.5 $1.4 $13.2 $5.3 $0.4""
""* ATC is accounted for using the equity method; this represents WEC Energy Group’s  portion of the investment. ** Includes all gas utilities and Bluewater.    ﻿Long history of quality  earnings with a  compound annual   growth rate of ~6.7 %*   (from 2015-2024)    Investment opportunities  support long-term   EPS growth of 6.5%-7%    $29.9 billion  market cap   $47.4 billion  of assets As of Dec. 31, 2024 2025-2029 Capital Plan Investing in renewable and low-carbon energy  to  replace less""
""efficient, fossil-fueled generation. Modernizing our electric and natural gas delivery  infrastructure to enhance reliability and resilience. Expanding our regulated  infrastructure to meet  growing customer demand. ($ in billions) * Based on 2015 and 2024 adjusted earnings per share.   See Appendix A for reconciliation. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  13 Environmental responsibility      14 Climate strategy     27""
""Innovation   36 As  an industry leader in the decarbonization  effort, we are committed to protecting the  environment and reducing greenhouse gas  emissions across our companies. Environmental Northern  lights over our Twin Falls Hydro site WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  14 Environmental responsibility Environmental factors are an integral part of our planning and operating decisions. Our approach to environmental""
""leadership As outlined in our Environmental Policy, we embrace our responsibility  to provide safe, reliable and affordable energy in an environmentally  sustainable manner. We set our strategies and run our operations with  an emphasis on continuous improvement and a vision to deliver a  cleaner energy future. Our governance structure and practices support a strategic focus on  environmental issues. Working with external organizations and our  internal staff, Environmental leadership""
""approach that seeks input from internal resources and  industry experts. •         The company’s vice president — environmental takes the lead on  analyzing climate-related impacts of our business. The Environmental  and WEC Infrastructure and Fuels departments engage with other  functional areas of the company to identify cost-effective options for  reducing emissions. The vice president — environmental provides  regular updates on environmental issues, including regulatory  matters, to the""
""Audit and Oversight Committee of our board of  directors through formal quarterly reports. Risk management •      The Audit and Oversight Committee assists the board of directors  in overseeing our strategy and compliance with legal and regulatory  requirements. The committee’s efforts include reviewing and  providing oversight of environmental compliance matters and risks  to ensure appropriate management attention. Primary oversight of  risks associated with climate change remains the""
""responsibility of  the full board. •  The Climate Risk Committee brings together senior-level officers  responsible for overall climate-related corporate strategy. The  committee meets quarterly to review and discuss climate-related  goals and associated initiatives, risks and opportunities. •        The company’s Audit Services department conducts an annual  audit plan that often includes reviewing environmental processes.  More than compliance checklists, these audits cover the entire  process""
""and identify instances in which risk mitigation can be  improved. All audit observations and recommendations are  communicated to senior management and tracked for completion.  These management action plans are also reported to the Audit and  Oversight Committee. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  15 Environmental management and compliance Throughout our operations, we work to mitigate the impacts of our business on the""
""air,  water and land. Environmental compliance  Our companies are subject to extensive state and  federal environmental regulations affecting our  operations, and we dedicate significant investments  to comply with these requirements, including  implementation of pollution-control equipment,  environmental monitoring, emissions monitoring  and permits at all our regulated facilities. Overall  responsibility for environmental compliance lies  within our operating units with assistance from the""
""Environmental department staff. To support ongoing compliance, the Environmental  department has dedicated subject matter experts  assigned to major facilities to monitor compliance  and routinely evaluate performance, and uses  environmental compliance software tools. Any  potential compliance issues are communicated,  tracked and summarized at least monthly.  We work closely with state and local governments  on projects, including collaborative work with  the Wisconsin Department of Natural""
""Resources  (WDNR), and engage with them on the creation or  updating of regulations. Environmental emergency planning  Our energy companies’ environmental emergency  planning process includes spill prevention, control  and countermeasure plans, as well as contingency  plans, off-site plans and site emergency response  plans. An environmental incident response team  is on call 24/7 to provide regulatory guidance and  access to spill response contractors to assist with  responses to spills and""
""incidents throughout our  service areas.  More information on emergency preparedness and  response can be found in the “Public safety”  section on Page 51. Pulliam pollinator habitat WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  16 Air emissions reduction We have significantly reduced emissions as we  carry out our generation reshaping plan. Our  air quality control systems and other measures  at our facilities have resulted in""
""combined  sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxides (NOx) and  mercury emissions reductions of approximately  97% since 2000. The retirement of less efficient generation and  the use of modern emission control systems  support our continuing progress: •     Since 2018, we have retired nearly 2,500  megawatts (MW) of capacity from less  efficient fossil-fueled generation. We expect  to retire approximately 1,200 MW of additional  coal-fueled generation between 2025 and  2031, while adding natural gas""
""capacity. •      Our existing fossil-fueled generation has  state-of-the-art air quality control systems.  These systems control emissions that include  NOx, SO2, mercury, carbon monoxide, volatile  organic compounds and organic hazardous  air pollutants. Our emissions data from owned electricity  generation are reported on this page.  Air emissions from electricity generation     2022 2023 2024 Sulfur dioxide   (SO2) (kg) 1,271,989 1,091,890 1,306,964 (kg/MWh) 0.04 0.04 0.04 Nitrogen  oxides""
""(NOx) (kg) 5,352,014 5,141,019 5,025,167 (kg/MWh) 0.18 0.17 0.16 Particulate matter  (PM) (kg) 496,179 451,620 452,549 (kg/MWh) 0.017 0.015 0.014 Volatile organic   compounds (VOCs) (kg) 229,395 188,917 205,397 (kg/MWh) 0.008 0.006 0.007 Mercury   (Hg) (kg) 26 27 22 (kg/MWh) 0.000001 0.0000009 0.0000007   Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from owned and contracted   electric generation (1,000 metric tons carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e)) 2022 2023 2024 Owned Coal 12,492 12,432  12,041 Natural gas""
""6,388 6,52 7 6,496 Oil 7 4 3 Net purchased power1 (630) (2,507) (2,759) Total CO2e for utility obligations 18,257 16,455 15, 780 Total CO2e/ total WEC Energy Group  generation 2,3,4,5 (metric tons/MWh) 0.43 0.41 0.406 1      Includes emissions from contracted generating facilities and market purchases. MISO market  purchases were determined for the combined utilities and utilized EIA CO2 rates by fuel type  and MISO fuel data mix. 2   Total CO2e in intensity is generation only and does not""
""include net purchased power. 3         Reported generation includes both regulated and non-regulated assets. 4        The environmental attributes of the WEC Infrastructure renewable facilities are or may be the  property of third parties. As such, these third parties are solely entitled to the reporting rights  and ownership of the environmental attributes, such as renewable energy credits, offsets,  allowances and the avoided emissions of greenhouse gases. 5     Global warming potentials""
""for calculating CO2-equivalents: CO2 = 1 ton; CH4 = 25 tons of  CO2; N2O = 298 tons of CO2. 6        Global warming potentials as updated by the US EPA, effective with Reporting Year 2024 for  calculating CO2-equivalents: CO2 = 1 ton; CH4 = 28 tons of CO2; N2O = 265 tons of CO2 Biogenic emissions are not included in any data. 140% 120% 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% NOx 93%  Mercury 97%  SO2 99%  Declining  air emissions 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014""
""2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Valley Power Plant WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  17 Water resources management Cooling water system operations and capital  investments: Our companies recycle water used in power  generation and use systems that minimize consumptive  water loss.  •  Most of our power plants use open-cycle cooling  systems. These systems withdraw surface water from  natural cold water""
""sources, pump the water through  steam condensers to cool and condense the steam  that drives turbine generators, then return 100% of the  cooling water to the source.  •      For facilities with cooling towers, about 25% of the  water is returned to the source, with the balance of  the water loss going to the air during the evaporative  cooling process. Water (billion cubic meters) 2022 2023 2024 Withdrawn from major sources 3.02 2.87 2.62 Municipal water purchases 0.003 0.003 0.004 Water""
""returned to source 3.00 2.86 2.61 Water consumption 0.01 0.01 0.01 Percent returned to source* 99.5% 99.6% 99.5% Percent consumed 0.5% 0.4% 0.5% * Most of the water is used for once-through cooling. Reducing water use: Total water use in 2024 was lower  than the previous year, marking the continuation of a  downward trend. Between 2018 and 2024, our companies’  water withdrawals from major sources decreased 27%.  This has been primarily due to retirements of coal-fueled  facilities, water""
""quality capital improvement projects, and  the addition of renewable energy and natural gas-fueled  facilities. Fox Energy Center  retention pond Beneficial water reuse Fox Energy Center in Wisconsin beneficially  reuses approximately 2.5 million gallons  per day of treated effluent from the Heart  of the Valley (HOV) Metropolitan Sewerage  District to supply its process water and  cooling water needs.  Use of treated wastewater effluent that  would otherwise be returned to the Fox  River is an""
""environmentally preferable  alternative to the use of surface water or  groundwater resources. Water received at  the facility undergoes additional treatment  for the removal of impurities such as metals,  phosphorus and total suspended solids.  The beneficial use of treated effluent  results in a net reduction in the quantity  of mercury, phosphorus and suspended  solids by 65% to 75% compared to what  would otherwise be discharged by the  HOV facility into the Fox River. WEC ENERGY GROUP |""
""2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  18 Waste minimization commitment Waste minimization and recycling is an integral part of  our corporate environmental responsibility, affecting  all of our facilities.  In 2022, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)  announced a National Recycling Goal of 50% by  2030. WEC Energy Group is committed to internally  exceeding a 50% goal on a consistent annual basis  by the same year.  Our waste""
""minimization program encourages all efforts  to reduce, reuse and recycle. We have implemented a  multitude of strategies to help us consistently meet our  waste recycling goal. Four basic principles are the foundation of our waste  minimization program. 1. Waste management practices •     We have programs in place for waste reduction,  handling and recycling that are managed at a  corporate level by dedicated environmental staff  trained as subject matter experts.  •   Our Supply Chain""
""department has adopted an  environmental management strategy using a  technology-based impact management system along  with a lean manufacturing model, which supports  waste minimization, pollution prevention and  continuous improvement.  2. Source reduction •   We continue to evaluate and change practices and  processes to reduce or eliminate waste generation.  For example, we have an inventory control system  in place to evaluate purchase needs, and take  opportunities to share resources""
""between facilities.  •  To decrease hazardous waste disposal, when  practicable, we investigate nonhazardous alternatives  or conduct elementary neutralization of chemicals. •         Facility systems are upgraded to preemptively remove  emerging contaminants, such as fire-fighting foams  containing per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS). 3. Recycling •         Our recycling commitment and waste management  plans encourage employees to recycle waste streams  on-site. •   We require all""
""universal waste from our operations to  be recycled, which includes fluorescent bulbs,  batteries and mercury devices. All electronic waste  generated is also recycled. •       Metal scrap is collected from remodeling and new  construction job sites. Most construction and  demolition job sites achieve high rates of recycling —  80% to 95%. 4. Reuse •         To minimize the amount of solid waste generated  from our facilities, we find new uses for products.  •         Products are transferred""
""between internal facilities  when possible. •  We sell life-cycled electronic equipment for reuse by  others. In 2024, WEC Energy Group  sent many types of waste  for recycling.  26,165 pounds for energy  recovery and fuel blending.  2,826,902 pounds for other  recovery and reclamation.  621,717 pounds of oils.  194,328 pounds of electronic  waste, such as laptops,  computers, phones and circuit  boards.  1,046,500 pounds of wood  pallets and utility poles.  3,043,500 pounds of electric""
""distribution equipment,  including transformers, wires,  breakers, capacitors and other  materials.  Figures are included in the waste  disposal summary. Operational waste summary (metric tons) 2022 2023 2024 Hazardous waste generated 13 29 29 Hazardous waste recycled 7 12 13 % recycled 53% 40% 44% Nonhazardous waste generated  1 17,885 16,375 18,044 Nonhazardous waste recycled 10,534 9,341 10,101 % recycled 59% 57% 56% Hazardous boiler cleaning waste 222 0 0 Nonhazardous boiler cleaning waste""
""868 130 20 % recycled  2 0% 0% 0% PCB waste generated  3 303 486 349 PCB waste recycled 44 37 43 % recycled 15% 8% 12% Overall % recycled 55% 55% 55%  1       Tonnage noted includes all nonhazardous waste including universal waste, with  the exception of asbestos, soil, concrete and asphalt from construction and  remediation/demolition projects.  2        Currently, we are not aware of an outlet for recycling boiler waste. 3          PCB waste is defined as nonhazardous waste regulated by the""
""Toxic Substances  Control Act, containing 50 parts per million or greater PCBs; quantities are not  included in the nonhazardous totals. Special/one-time project waste summary During 2024, Wisconsin Public Service (WPS) began the  decommissioning and demolition of Weston Power Plant  units 1 and 2. This project generated 29,999 tons of  material and had an overall recycling rate of 93% in 2024. In 2024, We Energies and Wisconsin Public  Service recycled over 1 million pounds of  wood from over""
""2,000 utility poles. This was  due to pole replacements from storm and  vehicle damage, as well as upgrades. Our  recycling program offers our out-of-service  wood poles to be used for applications such  as landscaping and fencing. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  19 Combustion products (metric tons) 0 100,000 200,000 300,000 Fly ash Bottom ash  Gypsum Wood ash 2022 2023 2024 2022 2023 2024 2022 2023 2024 2022 2023""
""2024 Produced  Beneficially used Beneficial use of combustion products Coal combustion residuals (CCR) are managed in  compliance with all federal, state and local regulations.  The majority of our CCR is beneficially used for concrete,  cement, wall board and agricultural projects.  In addition to the successful use of ash and gypsum, 100%  of the sulfuric acid produced at the Weston Power Plant   ReACT® air emission control system was beneficially  used in 2024. The majority of this was sold""
""to local  industrial users. WPS was the first electric company  in the United States to sell sulfuric acid produced from  a coal-fueled electric generating facility’s air emission  control system. Annual combustion product beneficial use rates vary  due to production quantities, cyclical market demands  and material quality. The reduction in combustion  products correlates directly to the retirement of coal- fueled power generation. Facility design with environmental  stewardship in mind We take""
""steps in the design, remodeling, construction  and facility management process to maintain an  increasingly sustainable facility footprint.  New buildings are developed with energy conservation  designed into the project, which often exceeds  Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED)  requirements. Lighting fixtures are LED, known to use  at least 75% less energy and last 25 times longer than  standard incandescent lighting. We also have established  sustainability standards for new""
""furniture and flooring. Information on our landscaping practices, as well as  habitat restoration at former sites, can be found on  Page 23. 2022 2023 2024 Combustion products produced 508,200 492, 800* 476, 000 Combustion products  beneficially used 474,500 488,7 00* 474,800 Percent used 93% 99% 99% WPS Coleman Service Center opened in 2024 * Data corrected  from previous report. Note: Combustion products beneficially used in 2024 exceed that year’s production because they include surplus from""
""prior years. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  20 Stewardship In accordance with our environmental policy,  we are preserving and enhancing sensitive  natural habitats on our companies’  properties. We implement best practices to  manage land for multiple uses — aesthetics,  biodiversity, cultural resources, forestry,  recreation, water quality and wildlife. Our stewardship efforts reach beyond our properties  and""
""across state borders. Our companies  collaborate with local, state and federal agencies  during regulatory review of our projects. We bring  together appropriate stakeholders to achieve  stewardship goals through opportunities typically  identified during project planning and construction.  As a result, we’ve seen beneficial biodiversity and  resource protection outcomes that meet, and often  exceed, state and federal guidelines and regulations. Our staff members lead several comprehensive""
""wildlife restoration and protection efforts with the  coordination and cooperation of various state and  federal agencies and multiple partners. Priority goes  to species and native ecosystems in the greatest  need of protection, recovery and enhancement. Natural Heritage Inventory (NHI) data sets are used  to check for the potential presence of rare species  when planning power generation and distribution  projects, and to evaluate stewardship initiatives our  companies may undertake. Species""
""listed on the  International Union for Conservation of Nature’s  Red List of Threatened Species (IUCN Red List)  are also considered. Nearly 60 IUCN Red List  species are present within our companies’ service  areas. Both the NHI and IUCN data sets provide  valuable mapping tools and other information used  in steering company stewardship and rare species  management decisions. Through robust training programs and internal  outreach, our Environmental department informs  and educates thousands""
""of company employees  and contractors on environmental protection,  stewardship and the preservation of natural  resources during construction projects. Assessing biodiversity on company lands Assessing biodiversity starts with a comprehensive  evaluation of the multitude of unique landscapes  that exist across our companies’ service areas. This  current effort involves an extensive analysis of nearly  900 fee-owned properties, comprising  over 81,000  acres that contain natural wetlands,""
""distribution information and  water resource data sets to examine the extent and  quality of biodiversity occurring on our lands that are  being actively managed or passively conserved. The  GIS model is being used to identify unique landscapes  that warrant protection and enhancement. Diverse plant communities and high-quality water  bodies occur on many of these lands, and provide  habitat for hundreds of wildlife species, including  pollinators and dozens of state and federally listed  rare""
""species. Additionally, we review important international  biodiversity data sources to identify priority locations  in close proximity to our generation and distribution  infrastructure, including Key Biodiversity Areas (KBA)  data, Ramsar Sites Information Service, the IUCN World  Heritage Outlook, and the UNESCO Man and the  Biosphere Reserves. There are a total of 30 KBA and  Ramsar priority locations less than 50 miles from our  infrastructure. Eight of them overlap our distribution  systems""
""for a total of approximately 126 acres. None  of those that overlap our infrastructure have negative  impacts resulting from our distribution operations. In total, we promote biodiversity for multiple  habitats on over 72,000 acres of land,  including nearly 1,200 acres of dedicated  pollinator habitat. Our employees and contractors  carry out activities to preserve  and enhance natural resources,  protect and improve habitat,  and increase biodiversity  across our service areas. Biodiversity""
""land metrics, fee-owned land in acres Pollinator lands Other grasslands Wetlands Forested Required mitigation 156 107 49 11 Voluntary active management 657 585 209 150 Voluntary passive conservation 371 18,500 11,274 49,673 Total 1,184 19,192 11,532 49,834 WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  21 Pollinator species conservation and habitat protection A wide variety of flora and pollinator species, including  numerous rare""
""species, are supported on thousands of acres  of actively managed company lands. Each year, our employees work to avoid or minimize impacts to these  resources during the design and planning phases, and techniques are  used during construction and restoration to protect pollinator habitat. Native prairie and wetland seed mixes are used to restore disturbed  project areas and convert non-native grasslands to native habitat.  Habitat restoration is expressly designed to include wildflowers native""
""to local areas where plantings occur to attract and support bees,  butterflies and other pollinators. Karner blue butterfly — Our companies have worked with the U.S.  Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) and various state agencies to  develop and implement a habitat conservation plan. Efforts under this  plan regularly include pre-construction surveys and best management  practices to enhance habitat during construction and restoration. Bumblebees — The type of habitat required for many bumblebees""
""is  similar to that needed by the monarch butterfly. Since 2023, we have been  partnering with the University of Illinois Chicago,  WDNR, USFWS, and  several energy and transportation industry organizations to develop a  national voluntary conservation benefit agreement (CBA). This agreement  is complementary to the Nationwide CCAA for Monarch Butterfly and  intended to provide habitat for 11 species of at-risk bumblebees, including  the rusty patched bumblebee, American bumblebee and several""
""Chicago. Through that group, we helped to develop  the Monarch CCAA program, which launched in 2022.  The monarch butterfly population has been in decline for decades due to  environmental challenges including habitat loss. In 2024, the USFWS proposed  to list the monarch butterfly as a threatened species under the Endangered  Species Act of 1973. Through the Monarch CCAA, We Energies and WPS initially committed to  conserving and restoring monarch butterfly habitat on nearly 500 acres of""
""company  property. We continued our analysis in 2024 and expanded our commitment to  include lands across all utilities — over 400,000 acres across six states.  Additionally, we are a contributing member in the Electric Power Research  Institute’s (EPRI) Power in Pollinators Initiative, working with the Xerces Society  through EPRI, an active partner to the Wisconsin Monarch Collaborative, and  a supporter of the Monarch Joint Venture. We rely on these organizations’  expertise to maintain a""
""employees, investors  and the public about the importance of, and our contributions to, monarch  butterfly conservation. This dedicated effort to preserve, restore and manage habitats will play a vital  role in the survival of monarch butterflies, improving biodiversity on a landscape  scale and the success of our ecosystem for decades to come. The Rights-of-Way as Habitat Working  Group at the University of Illinois  Chicago acknowledged the company  with several awards in 2023 and 2024  for""
""our efforts to manage high-quality  monarch butterfly habitat. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  22 Raptor protection and support We support numerous efforts at our power  generation facilities and along our electric  distribution facilities to protect and to support  raptors. Peregrine falcons — Our companies have maintained  nesting boxes on power plant chimneys and rooftops  for more than three decades. One-fifth of""
""counties  in Wisconsin and Michigan’s Upper Peninsula, and,  since 1980, field crews have constructed alternative  nest structures for osprey breeding pairs and  assisted landowners in erecting nest structures in  key habitat locations. These efforts support osprey  recovery. More than 550 breeding pairs now live in  Wisconsin. Bald eagles — To avoid interactions at our wind  generation facilities, operations personnel look  for and remove potential food sources that could  attract eagles.""
""Additionally, we help state agencies  protect bald eagle nests by documenting and  maintaining occupied nest data associated with our  30 hydroelectric facilities. In rarer cases when bald  eagles try to nest atop utility poles, we install larger  platforms nearby to provide safer alternatives.  In 2024, we enrolled our wind energy facilities in an  eagle permitting program that the USFWS  anticipates will lead to increased benefits to bald and  golden eagle populations. These efforts, along""
""with  the efforts of many others, are paying off as the bald  eagle population continues to increase within our  service areas. Recently in Wisconsin, nesting bald  eagles were observed in all 72 counties. Supporting healthy fisheries Our hydroelectric flowages provide numerous  opportunities to partner with key stakeholders  to protect and enhance healthy fisheries. In addition, in operating our hydroelectric flowages,  we take actions to avoid and minimize negative  impacts to the fisheries. •""
""We have partnered with the WDNR to protect the  spawning of muskies, white suckers and walleye.  •      We work with the WDNR and the USFWS to  control the sea lamprey population. The lampreys  prey on game fish in Lake Michigan and then  travel upstream to spawn in the Peshtigo and  Menominee rivers. •        At multiple hydroelectric flowages, we conduct  water quality testing at our facilities to ensure  downstream flows are sufficient to support  aquatic life.  •         At our Grand Rapids""
""Dam, we conduct fish  surveys to ensure that downstream flows support  a healthy fishery. When we need to drop surface water elevations  below the approved level for an extended period  of time at our hydroelectric flowages, we protect  aquatic species by conducting surveys for any  potential stranded organisms and relocating them to  safe waters. For over 20 years, we have partnered with  state and federal agencies, nongovernmental  agencies and university researchers on efforts  to restore""
""lake sturgeon to Lake Michigan and  investigate passage of lake sturgeon around  hydroelectric facilities on the Menominee River.  The We Energies Foundation is a longtime  supporter of Riveredge Nature Center’s lake  sturgeon reintroduction project and Sturgeon  Fest, an annual Milwaukee event.  “Warrior” the peregrine falcon at Port Washington Generating Station WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  23 Preservation of""
""natural areas and wetlands We support efforts to preserve, create,  restore and manage native habitats  and other natural features on our  companies’ properties and leased lands.  We also monitor a variety of biodiversity  indicators on our lands and along natural  gas and electric corridors. Sustainable construction practices — Our  companies have ongoing new construction and  maintenance activities on thousands of miles of  electric and natural gas utility distribution corridor  every year.""
""Construction crews work to implement  stringent best practices to manage erosion and  keep disturbed sediments contained within  planned construction areas. Maintenance and  monitoring occur frequently to minimize impacts  to adjacent natural areas and wetlands. We use  key performance indicators (KPIs) as metrics to  rate our contractors’ environmental compliance  performance. Ongoing habitat restoration and   management — Restored prairie and wetland  habitat on the Migratory Bird Stopover at""
""Port  Washington Generating Station continues to  thrive as a resting place for migratory birds, with  more than 120 species recorded since 2011. We  increased the available prairie habitat at the site  by 25% with additional restoration between 2019  and 2023. Stormwater runoff management — Various  methods and techniques are used at facilities  to manage stormwater and improve the water  quality from runoff. Green roof stormwater  collection systems are installed at several facilities,""
""including atop our corporate headquarters. Our  power distribution and company office sites are  using native plants in landscaping to manage  stormwater and provide a pollinator refuge in  urban landscapes. Deep-rooted prairie species  absorb stormwater more effectively than shallow- rooted turf grasses, reducing runoff. Filter strips  and native prairie grass buffers also reduce  sediment loading at some company-owned  properties. Restoring native prairie at former landfill  sites — We have""
""biodiversity objectives at  landfill properties that include the establishment  and management of species-rich, native flora  and fauna communities that provide numerous  ecological benefits. •   Hundreds of native species have been  documented on our properties, including  over a dozen state-designated threatened  and endangered species, and several dozen  other species indicative of high-quality  habitat. •        Restoration at these sites include seeding a  diverse native mix of prairie""
""grasses and  flowering species designed to attract local  pollinators. •    Invasive species management is included in   our long-term land management program to  promote biodiversity. Maintaining large blocks of contiguous high- quality habitat at these sites benefits the entire  food chain, from organisms in the soil to hawks  and owls. Restored prairies significantly reduce  the use of herbicides and fertilizers traditionally  required to maintain landfill covers. Diverse  prairie cover also""
""improves water quality and  reduces stormwater runoff. Controlling invasive species — Our companies  support activities aimed at restoring habitat  through controlling several dozen invasive plant  and animal species such as buckthorn, Eurasian  watermilfoil, garlic mustard, purple loosestrife,  leafy spurge, giant reed grass, Japanese  knotweed, sea lamprey, and zebra and quagga  mussels, among others.  We conduct research and provide ongoing  support for research by others on aquatic  invasive""
""Ecological benefits include reducing stormwater  runoff, substantially increasing biodiversity on the  site, promoting the health of pollinator species  that benefit adjacent crops, controlling invasive  species, and increasing flood storage along  a flood-prone river that bisects the site. Work  continued in 2024, and over 130 native plants  now have been observed throughout the restored  prairies and wetlands. More than 100 of the native  species are flowering plants that provide nectar""
""resources to a variety of pollinating insects  throughout the entire growing season. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  24 Renewable projects and conservation As we continue to invest in renewable  energy, we are working to enhance  biodiversity and support conservation efforts  at our project sites. Solar projects — We develop robust vegetation  management plans for the lands used for our solar  panels and related""
""electric distribution infrastructure.  Native plants and pollinators can provide essential  ecological services, including boosting local  agricultural crop yields, increasing water infiltration  and reducing soil erosion. Our plans are designed to  restore the soil within several decades and reduce  fertilizer use, protecting surface and groundwater. In  addition, we have been sensitive to concerns that,  due to their resemblance to water bodies from above,  solar parks might pose particular""
""risks to migrating  water birds. We conducted avian monitoring studies  at two of our large solar projects in 2022 that showed  no evidence of water bird collisions with solar panels. We currently have over 30 solar generation facilities,  ranging in size from 1 acre to over 2,000 acres. These  facilities collectively comprise over 13,000 acres,  and over 78% of these lands are restored to native  grassland cover. Over 500 acres are dedicated  specifically to pollinator habitat that is managed""
""for  rich floral diversity. Wind facilities — We implement site-specific plans  and adaptive strategies to reduce impacts to bird  and bat populations. We voluntarily use a method  recognized by EPRI, regulatory agencies and wildlife  scientists to help bats avoid the turbines: changing  the blade angle to greatly slow blade movement  when operating below the turbine wind cut-in speed,  without materially impacting energy generation. Protection of cultural resources We have developed robust""
""consultation with tribal leaders or staff. We work closely with cultural resource experts and a  variety of agencies so that our projects avoid  impacts whenever possible. When necessary, site  surveys and construction monitoring are conducted  by archeological professionals to protect the integrity  of known cultural resource sites. Forward Wind Energy Park WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  25 Manufactured gas plant""
""remediation From the early 1800s until the 1960s, gas for  heating and lighting was manufactured at local  plants. Offering an alternative to wood and  coal, these manufactured gas plants (MGPs)  prospered until more affordable and cleaner  natural gas began to arrive via pipelines.  In 2024, we continued to work closely with  federal and state agencies on the remediation of  several former MGP sites throughout our service  areas. These projects not only improved the  environment but also""
""supported redevelopment  of the local communities we serve. Milwaukee Solvay Coke & Gas Site Car Ferry Slip sediments cleanup We Energies completed remediation of sediment within the Milwaukee Solvay  Car Ferry Slip in 2024. The project remediated approximately 1 acre of impacted  sediment on the bank of the Kinnickinnic River, associated with 120-plus years  of industrial operation on the adjacent upland property. Remediation work  included isolating impacted sediment with an engineered cap and""
""installation  of a sheet pile wall to maintain the integrity of the engineered cap. This work was done in a continued partnership with the nonfederal sponsors  (including WDNR, Milwaukee Metropolitan Sewerage District, City of Milwaukee  and Milwaukee County Parks) that signed on to a Great Lakes Legacy Act  project agreement as part of the long-term goal to address the Milwaukee  Estuary Area of Concern. The project  included placement of: •  Approximately 12,300 tons of imported clean sand and""
""armor stone . •    Approximately 260 linear feet of subaqueous sheet pile . Chicago Mutual Fuel Gas Works MGP cleanup The former Mutual Fuel Gas Works MGP facility operated in Chicago from  approximately 1889 to 1910. The plant provided gas for residential, commercial  and industrial applications in the area. In 2024, site remediation was  completed under the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (Illinois EPA)  voluntary Site Remediation Program. The remedial action activities included  soil""
""excavation and off-site disposal, installation of an engineered barrier  and containment wall, and backfill of clean imported gravel and clay. These  efforts resulted in the safe removal and off-site disposal of more than 58,000  tons of impacted material. We  plan to work with the Illinois EPA in 2025 to obtain No Further  Remediation (NFR) letters allowing flexible redevelopment of the site,  including the potential for future residential use.  WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY""
""REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  26 Community support Our companies also seek to work with the general public to  increase awareness of natural resource stewardship. We  support others’ efforts for the betterment of fish and wildlife,  water and air quality, forests, energy efficiency, renewable  energy, and recycling. These include: •    Annual community cleanups of rivers and other sensitive  areas. •       Conservation programs. •        Education programs on""
""sustainable forestry, agriculture and  invasive species. •        Pollinator habitat restoration projects. •      Arbor Day programs. •   Whooping crane and sturgeon programs. •         Raptor education and rescue. •  Nature trail development and restoration. •     Wildlife rehabilitation. •      Youth environmental internship programs. Employee volunteer projects have helped with beach cleanup  and restorations, adopt-a-highway and adopt-a-trail projects,  and community garden cleanups. Line""
""clearance coordinators  also conduct “Plant the Right Tree in the Right Location”  outreach programs with area schools and community gardens. Examples of  environmental organizations supported: •     Chicago Gateway Green •         Chicago Horticultural Society •         Chicago Zoological Society •    Door County Historical  Society •       Field Museum-Keller  Science Action Center •    Friends of the Bay Beach  Wildlife Sanctuary •  Friends of the Chicago River •  Gathering Waters""
""Conservancy •         Green Bay Botanical  Gardens •  Heckrodt Wetland Reserve  Inc. •        Hoo’s Woods Inc. •      John G. Shedd Aquarium •        Lake Forest Open Lands •        Lake Michigan Bird  Observatory •       Landmark Conservancy •  Lincoln Park Zoological  Society •      Maywood - Ellwood H. May  Environmental Park  •         Mequon Nature Preserve •        Natural Resources  Foundation of Wisconsin •    Northeast Wisconsin Land  Trust Inc. •  Northwoods Wildlife  Hospital and""
""Rehabilitation  Center •      Oneida County Land and  Water Conservation •    Openlands •     Oshkosh Zoological Society •    Peggy Notebaert Nature  Museum •        Ragdale Foundation •    River Bend Nature Center •      River Revitalization  Foundation •      Riveredge Nature Center •       Robert W. Monk Gardens •        Root-Pike Watershed  Initiative Network •       Schlitz Audubon Nature  Center •        Seventh Generation Ahead •      Southeastern Wisconsin  Invasive Species Consortium""
""Inc. •     Trees for Tomorrow •    Trout Unlimited •       Urban Ecology Center •  Urban Rivers •  Waukegan Parks Foundation •     Wild Instincts Inc. Wildlife  Rehabilitation •  Wildlife in Need Center •       Winged Freedom Raptor  Hospital •       Winnebago Conservation  Club Inc. •     Wisconsin Wetlands  Association © Friends of the Chicago River  Schlitz Audubon Nature Center For more information on our foundations,   see pages 54-57. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT""
""Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  27 Utility and nonutility energy assets Facilities (as of Dec. 31, 2024) Capacity  (MW)1 Serving 30 hydroelectric plants  96 Utility   customers 1 biomass plant  44 6 wind turbine facilities 580  4 solar facilities  5482  11 renewable generating  facilities  2,4043 Infrastructure  customers Total renewable capacity    3,672 MW 1     This table uses nameplate capacity for our solar and wind facilities, and rated capacity  for other energy""
""sources. 2          Solar capacity includes four utility-scale solar projects, as well as smaller projects  interconnected with the distribution system.  3        Includes total nameplate capacity of jointly owned infrastructure wind projects in service. Climate strategy We are committed to reducing greenhouse  gas (GHG) emissions from our system  while maintaining the safe, affordable and  reliable energy that is a cornerstone of our  business model. Consideration of climate change is""
""integral to our  approach, and we have conducted scenario analyses  to assess the strength of our strategy.  We continue to  reshape our portfolio of electric generation facilities  and modernize our infrastructure to further improve  environmental performance.  We are reconsidering our near-term goals due to a  combination of factors, including tightened energy  supply requirements in the Midwest power market  and the need to serve our customers with safe,  reliable and affordable energy.""
""However, our long- term goal to achieve net carbon neutral electric  generation by 2050 remains intact, aligned with  global emissions pathways aimed at limiting  warming to 1.5°C. We have continued to increase our investments in  cost-effective zero-carbon generation and worked to  reduce the role coal generation plays in our system.  In place of coal, we have built state-of-the-art natural  gas generation. We expect our utilities to spend  $9.1 billion between 2024 and 2029 on renewable""
""generation for our utility customers. In addition,  we continue to conduct leading research, such as  our hydrogen and long-duration energy storage  projects, and  have invested in renewable generation  outside our regulated utility footprint to serve other  companies through long-term offtake agreements.  Bishop Hill III Wind Energy Center  Paris Solar-Battery Park Renewable energy Efficient natural gas generation Research and development Sustainable customer programs Just Transition Key""
""elements  2024 renewable energy portfolio WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  28 Carbon dioxide emissions reduction  As of the end of 2024, we achieved a 56% reduction in carbon dioxide  emissions compared to our 2005 baseline. As strategies to reduce GHG emissions continue to evolve, we are committed to  working with elected officials, regulatory agencies, customers, environmental groups  and other stakeholders. We will""
""continue to replace or refuel fossil-fueled generating facilities with lower- carbon natural gas resources or carbon-free resources, including additional  wind, solar and other renewable energy technologies. The pace of these fossil  plant retirements and new plant construction will be guided by reliability, cost   considerations, energy supply requirements and public policy decisions. Additional  transmission system investments and energy storage projects may also be required  to support these""
""developments. Potential transmission system expansion will be a  key factor in our capital planning. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT -56% Achieved and anticipated CO2 reductions   (net  mass from electric generation)* Greenhouse gas  intensity for our generating fleet**   (metric tons CO2e/MWh) Baseline -20% -40% -60% -80% -100% 2005 2024 2050E 2050 2024  * Includes projection of potential carbon offsets by 2050.   ** Includes owned electric generation, purchased power""
""and WEC Infrastructure (WECI). The environmental attributes of the WECI renewable facilities are or may be the property of third parties. As  such, these third parties are solely entitled to the reporting rights and ownership of the environmental attributes such as renewable energy credits, offsets, allowances and the avoided emissions of  greenhouse gases. 2005 0.78 0* 0.40 Reduction goal: Net carbon   neutral  electric generation   by 2050 Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance""
""29 Electricity supply by fuel type (megawatt-hours delivered to regulated utility customers) 2005  2024 Coal Coal Natural   gas Natural   gas Nuclear Nuclear Renewables Renewables 73% 7% 17% 3% 31% 40% 21% 8% 2050  2032 Net carbon   neutral goal 2030 estimated Coal Natural   gas Nuclear Renewables <2% 43% 21% 34% Planned exit   from coal We are planning for the conversion of the coal-fueled Elm Road units at  our Oak Creek site. We have tested co-firing with natural gas at the site,  and we plan""
""to continue making operating refinements that will allow a  fuel blend of up to 100% natural gas. We expect to transition completely  away from coal by making a modest investment in plant facilities,  including natural gas burners and additional pipeline capacity to the site.  Coal-to-natural gas conversion is also planned for Weston Unit 4.   We already have retired approximately 2,500 megawatts (MW) of  nameplate capacity of fossil-fueled generation since the beginning of  2018. We expect to""
""retire approximately 1,200 MW of additional fossil- fueled generation by the end of 2031. We look forward to working with our stakeholders to develop policies that  will enable us to achieve our goals. Taken as a whole, changes to our generation fleet are expected to reduce  costs to customers, maintain the reliability of our system and preserve  fuel diversity while reducing carbon emissions. By the end of 2030, we expect to use coal only as a  backup fuel, and we plan to eliminate coal as an""
""energy source by the end of 2032.  Oak Creek site WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  30 Our ongoing transition to a clean energy future We are investing in our generation fleet to provide our customers with safe, reliable and affordable energy. Capital plan:   4,300 MW of regulated  renewables  900 MW of coal-fueled  generation  2,000 MW of efficient  natural gas-fueled generation  Coal   Pleasant Prairie  Power""
""Plant  (1,190 MW)  Coal   Edgewater 4  (100 MW)  Coal   Pulliam Power  Plant (200 MW)   Solar Two Creeks  Solar Park  (100 MW)  Solar Badger Hollow I  Solar Park   (100 MW)  Solar  Badger Hollow II   Solar Park (100 MW)  Wind Red Barn Wind Park   (82 MW)  Gas  West Riverside Energy   Center (100 MW) Whitewater combined-cycle  generation (243 MW) Weston RICE generation   (130 MW)  Gas    Weston Plant Unit 2   (74 MW)  Solar  Paris Solar Park   (180 MW)  Gas   West Riverside  Energy""
""Center  (additional 100 MW)  Coal   Oak Creek Power  Plant units 5 and 6  (528 MW)  Gas F. D. Kuester  Generating   Station (130 MW) A. J. Mihm  Generating  Station (55 MW)  Coal   Presque Isle  Power Plant (350  MW)  2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2023 2024    2025-2029 WEC Energy Group  announces    generation  reshaping plan   ADDED   RETIRED  WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  31 Methane emissions reduction We""
""continue to reduce methane emissions  by improving our natural gas distribution  system, and we have achieved a 23%  reduction across our system since 2011.  We plan to achieve further reductions through  an effort that includes both continuous operational  improvements and equipment upgrades, as  well as the use of renewable natural gas (RNG)  throughout our natural gas utility systems. In light of our progress, significant uncertainty  surrounding the market for renewable thermal  credits, and""
""our desire to focus on long-term  GHG emissions reduction across the enterprise,  we are reassessing our previous, standalone  goal related to methane emissions from natural  gas distribution.  Renewable natural gas In 2022, we received approval from the Public  Service Commission of Wisconsin for our RNG  pilots, and in 2023, we began transporting the  output of local dairy farms onto our natural gas  distribution systems in Wisconsin. The RNG  supplied is directly replacing higher-emission""
""methane from natural gas that would have  entered our pipes. We currently have contracts  in place for 2.1 billion cubic feet of RNG.  Pipe Retirement Program  Between January 2024 and February 2025, the  Illinois Commerce Commission conducted a  review of our work to modernize Chicago’s  aging natural gas pipe infrastructure. The  commission ultimately directed us to retire  more than 1,000 miles of cast and ductile iron  mains, with a diameter of less than 36 inches,  remaining in the Peoples""
""Gas delivery system  by Jan. 1, 2035. A comprehensive strategy and plan are being  developed to complete this vital infrastructure  work. Since 2012, we have reduced emissions  by nearly 3,400 metric tons of methane through  voluntary actions in Chicago. The EPA released  new emission factors as part of a regulatory  update effective Jan. 1, 2025. These new factors  will be applied to our reported values next year  and be normalized. 2024 emissions Across our companies, we reported emissions  of""
""approximately 24.6 million metric tons of  CO2e to the EPA related to our natural gas  distribution business in 2024. Approximately  98.4% of this amount was from the use of natural  gas sold by our companies or transported  through our distribution systems to customers  without their own reporting requirements, and  the remainder was from distribution system leaks.          Manlove Field is an underground storage facility that allows us to purchase supplies of natural gas when prices are lower""
""to help minimize the impact of price spikes during the  heating season. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  32 Looking to the future of natural gas  The natural gas distribution system remains essential to serving our customers,  especially during our region’s cold winters. As described in the Innovation section  (Page 36), our ongoing engagement with industry peers and research initiatives  will help us apply new""
""technologies as they become suited to the needs of our  operations and our customers. Arrow-circle-left Natural gas heat pumps: In 2024, Peoples Gas and North Shore Gas supported  residential gas heat pump market readiness by engaging in a pilot demonstration  in coordination with 11 other North American utilities. In November, we hosted a  ribbon-cutting event to celebrate the installation of a residential gas heat pump  at our Peoples Energy Training Center in Chicago, the first of its kind in""
""North  America. This unit serves to raise awareness of the  energy-efficient technology  and  offers training opportunities for our workforce and local HVAC contractors. Blending RNG: As detailed on Page 31, through pilot efforts in Wisconsin, we  are blending RNG from dairy farms and other sources with conventional  natural gas in our distribution system.  Hydrogen: There is potential for hydrogen to be produced with zero-emission  energy resources and blended with conventional natural gas.""
""Researching  hydrogen as a clean generating fuel for our fleet of dispatchable plants and  for blending in our distribution network is an important step on our path to  a sustainable future. Read more about our award-winning hydrogen pilot on  Page 38. Electrification: Electrification has been discussed in our industry as a possible  means of reducing methane emissions from the use of natural gas. At this time,  given the state of the technology and the specific conditions of our service  areas,""
""we see more potential in other options for  reducing methane emissions.  Full-home electrification is significantly more costly than natural gas heating in  our region, and currently appears to demonstrate no net reduction in methane  consumption due to seasonal demands for power generation. Scope 3 emissions inventory The table below presents an inventory of Scope 3 emissions in  the categories most relevant and impactful to our business. The  data was compiled according to the Greenhouse Gas""
""Protocol  Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. Overall, Scope 3  emissions have declined over the last three years. Decarbonization of Scope 3 emissions is complex, and we need  to carefully consider various dynamic and often-competing  factors as we look to the future. We will continue to work closely  with our state regulators and other key stakeholders in support  of transparency and alignment. Scope 3 emissions   (metric tons CO2e)  2022 2023 2024 Category 1: purchased  goods and""
""services 336,000 323,000 316,000 Category 3: fuel- and  energy-related activities 6,125,000 6,096,000 5,549,000 Category 4: upstream  transportation and  distribution 659,000 645,000 545,000 Category 11: use of sold  products  20,790,000  18,245,000 17,431,000 Category 15: investments 438,000 430,000 387,000 Total  28,348,000  25,739,000  24,228,000 Gas heat pump at Peoples Energy Training Center WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers""
""Governance  33 Assessing risks and opportunities Changing climate conditions, potential policy measures and the  technology changes reshaping the U.S. energy sector pose risks  and opportunities for WEC Energy Group that vary significantly by  business segment. Our strategic planning processes enable our companies to  continuously evaluate these uncertainties in the context of maintaining  reliable and affordable energy supplies for our customers that  follow the environmental improvement""
""trajectory we have set. We  also stay informed about market and supply chain challenges by  participating in industry-related organizations such as the Utility Supply  Management Alliance and Midwest Energy Association. Scenario and goal analysis Since 2019, we have provided key updates on our strategy and  progress through our climate reports. The report focuses on the  risks and opportunities associated with transitioning to a low-carbon  economy, based on the modeling of dozens of potential""
""emission  reduction pathways. It builds upon industry-specific research from  EPRI, global emissions scenarios used by the Intergovernmental  Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and the Sustainable Development  Scenarios from the World Energy Outlook 2021. As detailed in our climate report, we engaged with industry experts to  conduct risk assessments that allow us to understand the impact of  variables such as cost, feasibility, policy and technology on potential  decarbonization pathways for our""
""electric and gas utilities.  In 2023, we joined the EPRI SMARTargets™ initiative, which  will develop a GHG target setting methodology for  grounded and actionable climate targets and strategies  aligned with global goals. The SMARTargets methodology is being designed to include  validation of a GHG emission target on an individualized company  basis, and use extensive engagement to solicit stakeholder, public and  scientific community feedback and guidance. This project is expected  to provide""
""a better understanding of multiple global pathways for  our emissions, allow assessment of risks and opportunities, and help  educate stakeholders on our business. We anticipate SMARTargets to  be finalized and released  in 2025. Regulation of GHG emissions from fossil fuel sources Current and potential GHG emissions regulation carries with it a wide  range of possible effects on our energy business. As a result, we  strive for flexibility in reacting to the variety of potential outcomes to""
""maintain a secure, low-cost and reliable supply of fuel for generating  needs. Our electric energy companies build adaptability into fuel  supply and transportation contracts to address environmental  regulation. We are continuing to analyze the GHG emission profile of our electric  generation resources and to work with other stakeholders to  determine the potential impacts to our operations of federal and  state GHG regulations. We are engaged with Wisconsin agencies,  organizations and other""
""stakeholders, and we are monitoring the  recommendations of the Michigan Governor’s Council on Climate  Solutions regarding utilities, energy-intensive industry, building codes  and electric charging infrastructure. In addition, we actively participate  in industry organizations that are involved in the legislative and  regulatory processes focusing on environmental matters, including  Edison Electric Institute (EEI), American Gas Association, Wisconsin  Utilities Association, Illinois""
""Environmental Regulatory Group and  Michigan Manufacturers Association. Learn more about the approach we are taking to reduce GHG  emissions and factors that will help shape our future decision-making. www.wecenergygroup.com/csr WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  34 Just Transition As part of our decision-making as we  transform our generation fleet, we consider  the impact to our stakeholders — including  our employees,""
""customers and communities. We will continue to look to the “Just Transition”  framework, developed by the trade union movement,  to support a holistic and thoughtful approach to  reducing GHG emissions. Recognizing both the social  and economic impacts that plant retirements and  new investments will have on our communities helps  us develop sustainable energy solutions for their  needs. See our position statement on our website. Workforce Our dedicated employees operate our power plants,  and""
""we are committed to keeping them informed  and prepared as we transform our generation fleet.  Our senior vice president — power generation meets  frequently with union leaders and employees to  provide updates on our capital plan and upcoming  facility retirements. Update meetings with employees  and site management are frequently held at the  transitioning plants. As older, less efficient plants are closed, we work  with local union leadership and follow applicable  policies and collective""
""location. In some  cases, we have offered retention incentives to  employees for working until the end of plant service.   For the next planned retirements at Oak Creek, we  are carefully monitoring our employee population  and retirement expectations with the intent of  transitioning employees over time to other positions  in the company.  Energy affordability We recognize our responsibility to keep energy bills  affordable for our customers, and we are working  to develop and advocate for fair""
""and balanced  approaches that reflect that commitment. Over time,  we expect customers to see significant savings from  the retirement of less efficient plants. Renewable  generation resources require no fuel costs and have  substantially lower operations and maintenance costs,  compared to fossil-fueled generation. In the short term, we carefully manage our plants  slated for retirement to minimize the need for capital  investment — avoiding spending on projects without  lasting benefit""
""communities across our service areas,  and through our foundations, we have contributed to  economic development efforts in counties where we  retired plants. Environment As we continue reducing emissions, we also seek to  improve the ecological well-being of our properties  — leaving the land in equivalent or better condition  after our operations are complete. We actively manage hundreds of acres of natural  areas within our companies’ ash landfill sites, largely  originating from coal plants""
""that are now retired.  These efforts are helping to promote biodiversity,  support pollinator populations, maintain large blocks  of intact natural areas, reduce the use of herbicides,  and restore native flora and fauna. More details on  our stewardship and restoration activities can be  found on pages 20-25. Oak Creek site WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  35 Sustainable customer programs For decades, we have offered""
""options to  electric customers who want to help  strengthen the market for renewable energy. We Energies’ Energy for Tomorrow® program was  established in 1996 and WPS’ NatureWise® in 2002.  When our We Energies customers enroll in the Energy  for Tomorrow program at the 25%, 50% or 100%  level, We Energies produces or purchases renewable  energy to match that percentage of their electricity  use. Energy for Tomorrow is Green-e certified and  meets the environmental and consumer protection""
""standards set by the nonprofit Center for Resource  Solutions. The NatureWise program similarly offers  WPS customers the opportunity to purchase specified  amounts of electricity from renewable sources. In addition, WPS has continued to lead SolarWise®  for Schools, an award-winning solar and renewable  energy education program. Current participating local  high schools have received a hands-on renewable  energy curriculum and teacher training, and many of  them have received a 2-kilowatt solar""
""energy system  installed at their schools. Students from participating  high schools also are invited to compete annually in  the WPS-sponsored Solar Olympics. Electric vehicles Increasing customer access to electric vehicle (EV)  charging is a priority for us. To that end, We Energies  and WPS launched EV charging pilot programs in  March 2022, and in 2025 released refined versions  of the pilots based on customer feedback. The  residential pilot makes it less costly for customers  to charge""
""their all-electric battery vehicle at  home by providing the availability of off-peak bill  credits applied to EV owners’ current residential  electric rates. The commercial pilot helps pay for  infrastructure upgrades needed for businesses to  install larger Level 2 and DC fast-charging stations  for public charging and for commercial use. The pilot programs continue to help us better  understand and address the impact EV charging has  on the electric grid, as millions of EVs are expected  to""
""be sold in the United States in the coming years. In October 2021, subject to the receipt of any  necessary regulatory approvals, we pledged to  support the expansion of the EV charging network  within the service areas of our electric utilities. In  doing so, we joined the National Electric Highway  Coalition, a unified effort by electric utilities to  make EV charging convenient and widely available  throughout the United States.  We collaborated with the Wisconsin Department of""
""Transportation (WisDOT) and Michigan Department  of Transportation (MDOT) to support the development  of the states’ plans to distribute National Electric  Vehicle Infrastructure (NEVI) funds. In 2024, WisDOT  selected the first 53 NEVI-sponsored locations to  be built in Wisconsin, the first three of which came  online in December 2024 at  convenience stores in  Ashland, Menomonie and Chippewa Falls. The first  MDOT location also came online in December at a   grocery store in Lansing. We also""
""are working to electrify our own vehicle  fleet. We offer 62 charging stations across our  company locations for both fleet and employee  vehicles. In August 2020, under the auspices of  EEI, we joined our utility peers across the nation  in setting sustainability goals for our vehicle fleet  across WEC Energy Group.  We have set targets to electrify 40% of all storeroom  equipment by  the end of 2025 and 75% by 2030.  In addition, we have goals in place to increase the  EV portion of our""
""vehicle purchases by 2030 — up  to 40% of cars and SUVs and 10% of trucks (with  a maximum weight of 10,001 pounds). These goals  apply to vehicles to be driven within the daily range  capabilities of EVs and parked overnight at our  company sites. Wisconsin Public Service Solar Olympics WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  36 Innovation WEC Energy Group has a long history of exploring  innovation in energy generation and""
""distribution,  environmental stewardship, and sustainability — both  through independent efforts and in collaboration with  industry partners. From long duration energy storage, low carbon technologies and a  collaboration on an award-winning pilot to test hydrogen as a fuel  source for power generation, we have demonstrated our continuous  commitment to advancing our industry and improving our footprint. Industry collaborations As a founding member of the Electric Power Research Institute""
""(EPRI) in 1972, we continue to invest in research and development  programs related to generation system efficiency improvements,  generation operation and maintenance best practices, distribution  automation, smart grids, telecommunications modernization,  cybersecurity, renewable energy and demand-side energy efficiency. With EPRI, the company participates in the Strategic Sustainability  Science program to advance sustainability for the energy industry.  The program’s research pillars include""
""identifying priorities,  determining maturity and goals, measuring and managing  performance, peer benchmarking, and stakeholder engagement.  This program allows us to engage with peers, continue to develop  our sustainability program through industry priorities and inform  strategic disclosure. As detailed on Page 33, we became part of EPRI SMARTargetsTM  in 2023. The project’s aim is to develop a methodology for  scientifically grounded and actionable climate targets aligned  with global""
""goals. In 2022, we also became one of the founding members of EPRI’s  Climate Resilience and Adaptation Initiative (Climate READi).  This program is focused on developing a common platform  for climate data and framework tools to inform the planning,  design and operation of resilient energy systems. Engineers  from both our Power Generation and Customer Service and  Operations business units are engaged in various asset-specific  working groups that meet regularly within the Climate READi""
""consortium. These working groups discuss challenges associated  with maintaining and building reliable and resilient systems that  incorporate changing technologies such as expanded use of heat  pumps, electric vehicles and renewable generation sources.  We are reviewing current practices, planning criteria and  investment prioritization to incorporate best practices, looking  for opportunities to leverage tools delivered by Climate READi as  appropriate, and will continue to do so as the""
""initiative continues.  This three-year initiative wrapped up in spring 2025 with the  official launch of the Climate READi: Power Framework.  Peoples Gas has partnered with GTI Energy, formerly the Gas  Technology Institute, since 1985, and has invested more than $9  million in research, innovation and development of technology  solutions. The research has resulted in technologies used by the  natural gas industry to benefit customers and employees through  improved safety, operational""
""efficiencies, reduced environmental  impacts and increased energy efficiency. In collaboration with GTI Energy, we help support the Utilization  Technology Development (UTD) and the Operations Technology  Development (OTD) research nonprofits. UTD is a nonprofit, member-led organization composed of 20  natural gas distribution companies. Its mission is to identify, select,  fund and oversee research projects to maximize the environmental  performance, affordability, efficiency and safety of""
""equipment and  processes that use natural gas and renewable energy resources.   Peoples Gas and North Shore Gas hosted a natural gas heat pump demonstration in coordination with  11 other North American utilities in 2024. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  37 Our company invests $250,000 annually, a portion  of this through energy efficiency dollars, to support  projects that span all end-use sectors and cover a  variety""
""of topics, including ultra-high-efficiency gas  heating and cooling solutions, efficient and clean fuels  (renewable natural gas, hydrogen, synthetic gas), and  small-scale carbon capture. OTD is a nonprofit corporation composed of 31 natural  gas distribution companies that serve over 70 million  consumers in the United States, Canada and France.  This program allows utilities to combine interests,  expertise and resources into focused research and  development projects to develop solutions to""
""a wide  range of challenges. Peoples Gas invests $400,000  annually in OTD projects aimed at enhancing natural  gas system safety, increasing operating efficiency,  lowering operating costs, reducing methane emissions,  and maintaining system reliability and integrity. In 2020, WEC Energy Group joined EPRI and GTI  Energy’s Low-Carbon Resources Initiative (LCRI),  which is focused on large-scale deployment of  low-carbon technologies. This long-term initiative is  working to: •  Identify and""
""accelerate development of promising  technologies, including hydrogen, bioenergy,  carbon capture and renewable natural gas. •     Demonstrate and assess the performance of key  technologies and processes and identify possible  improvements. •        Inform key stakeholders and the public about  technology options and potential pathways to a  low-carbon future. This research and development effort is expected to  help inform our longer-term strategy to address the  emissions from our electric""
""generating units and  natural gas distribution systems. We also support research on emerging technologies  and opportunities for our customers through  Focus on Energy, Wisconsin utilities’ statewide  energy efficiency and renewable resource program.  These research projects have the goal of reducing  energy waste, costs and environmental impacts. In  2024, the Focus on Energy Environmental and  Economic Research and Development program  launched a residential air-to-water heat pump field  study""
""and continued research into HVAC workforce  development and integrated building controls.  More information about Focus on Energy and our  other energy efficiency programs can be found in the  “Energy affordability” section on pages 66-67. Renewable energy programs for  customers Two innovative renewable energy pilot programs are  providing opportunities for We Energies commercial  and industrial customers to support renewable  energy generation. Participants in the Solar Now program receive""
""monthly payments based on the capacity value  of their hosted solar photovoltaic systems, while  We Energies distributes the energy they produce  throughout the system. The program allows nonprofit  and government entities, as well as commercial and  industrial customers, to site utility-owned solar arrays  on their property. In 2024, Solar Now systems: •     Resulted in 22,581 metric tons of avoided carbon  dioxide equivalents. •        Supported our green pricing programs, with 15%  of Solar""
""Now generation going to Energy for  Tomorrow customers. The Solar Now pilot program is also providing us  with insight on the impact of local generation,  sometimes referred to as distributed generation.  Local generation is smaller-scale power production  or energy storage technology dispersed throughout  the power grid that provides electricity close to the  point of use. While centralized generation at our  facilities helps us achieve economies of scale and  provide reliable service, we have""
""integrated local  generation into our system in places where it has the  potential to provide additional benefits to customers  and contribute to local reliability. Renewable Pathway Pilot is another innovative  effort to  help provide our customers with the  affordable, reliable and clean energy they depend  on. Through the Renewable Pathway program, We  Energies large business customers can subscribe  and purchase electricity from a Wisconsin renewable  energy project. Companies will pay the""
""full share of  their subscription and receive clean energy credits  as they reach their environmental goals. Jones Dairy Solar Now site WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  38 Technology integration In addition to reducing GHG and other air emissions,  research and experimentation with new technology  benefits many areas of our business. For example, our utilities use technology such as light  detection and ranging,""
""continue to expand robotic process automation  (RPA) to deliver a flexible digital workforce that assists  in providing cost-effective, consistent services in areas  including billing, credit and collections, customer care,  field operations, and data center operations. Along  with their efficiency benefits, these systems help  support safety and  the environment. In one use case,  RPA evaluates natural gas usage on inactive meters  and then issues field investigation orders to resolve""
""potential gas leak and theft scenarios. Hydrogen as a fuel source EPRI members recognized WEC Energy Group in  2024 for our contribution to industry knowledge of  reciprocating engine technology. We collaborated  with EPRI, Wärtsilä and Burns & McDonnell on  blending 25% hydrogen by volume with natural gas  in a first-in-the-world pilot of a utility-scale, grid- connected reciprocating internal combustion engine  (RICE). The pilot results show that hydrogen can be  handled safely in a properly""
""designed, monitored and  controlled fuel system.  The expected reduction in carbon dioxide emissions,  consistent engine efficiency and a favorable reduction in  methane emissions were all observed in the test results.  In addition, the existing selective catalytic reduction  system maintained emissions below permit levels  without modification. EPRI has made the pilot results  available to the energy industry to understand how RICE  engines can efficiently generate dispatchable power  today and""
""in the future with growing hydrogen supplies. We hosted another first-of-its-kind test pilot in April  2025 at the Peoples Energy Training Center in Chicago.  EPRI tested equipment from 10 different vendors of  gas analyzers and ambient gas monitoring equipment  for accuracy and response time in a side-by-side  real-world pilot for hydrogen and hydrogen/natural  gas blend applications. These technologies are  expected to be critically valuable to gas transmission,  distribution and end-use""
""companies in a transition to  hydrogen fuel use.  As in all of our test pilots with EPRI,  we anticipate that  the results will be made available across the  industry to advance gas decarbonization efforts  while maintaining safety standards. Preliminary  results indicate gas utilities have access to the tools  necessary to quickly identify and locate a gas leak in  a system with hydrogen blends to 20% in natural gas.  Long-duration energy storage In 2023, we announced another pilot project""
""collaboration with EPRI and CMBlu Energy AG of  Germany. We plan to test CMBlu’s Organic SolidFlow  battery for discharge durations of five to 10 hours.  The test will be conducted at our We Energies  Valley Power Plant in Milwaukee to further industry  knowledge of this battery design that does not rely on  an already stressed supply chain for lithium or rare  metals. The battery technology is expected to offer  longer-duration energy supply compared to standard  lithium ion technology due to""
""its flow battery design. After an initial sample product test at the plant,  preparations continue for a larger scale pilot in 2026  intended to advance industry knowledge, support  renewable technology and help shape the future of  clean energy.  The Hydrogen Analyzer Pilot tested safety equipment with hydrogen and  natural gas blends — an important resource for gas transmission, distribution  and end users. WEC Energy Group  received an EPRI Technology Transfer Award at the EPRI  Generation""
""Advisory and Counsel  Meeting. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  Social 39 Empowered employees       40 Safety and health    46 Community engagement         54 Supply chain integrity       58 We promote the well-being of   our employees and communities   in all we do.  Wisconsin Public Service operations supervisor Cody Rye in disucssion with field crews at the Green Bay Service Center. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE""
""RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  40 Empowered   employees Our employees strive to achieve optimal results  with a customer focus to help us realize our full  potential and business goals. We value their  contributions and help them develop their skills in  support of a strong, engaged workforce. As detailed in this section, we foster inclusion and  opportunity through a number of initiatives. Making sure  our workplace is inclusive and respectful means""
""Engaging different perspectives to achieve  business goals.  Arrow-circle-right Striving for inclusive practices across the  organization.   “Our employees are the bedrock of  the company, so it’s crucial that  everyone feels welcome, respected  and engaged at work. We hold each  other accountable to make that  happen, from talent recruitment, to  professional development through  every stage of an employee’s career.”      Scott Lauber  President and CEO   WEC Energy Group Employee count""
""by company (as of Dec. 31, 2024) Michigan Gas   Utilities 142 Minnesota   Energy Resources 199 North Shore Gas 144 Peoples Gas 1,213 We Energies 2,884 Wisconsin Public Service 1,180 WEC Business Services 1,255 WEC Energy Group   workforce  7,0 17 employees Female 25%  Racial/ethnic minority 26% Represented 59%  WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  41 Building our talent pipeline Strategic talent development is a business""
""Hispanic Alliance for  Career Enhancement, Urban League in Milwaukee and  Chicago, and Women in Trades. In addition, employees are active in community events  that promote careers in energy , including school-based  mentor programs, along with a variety of outreach  efforts and career fairs. Community partnerships We have worked with nonprofits in our industry and  communities to enhance our  talent pipeline. We are  an active member of the Wisconsin Energy Workforce  Consortium (WEWC), a""
""worker  youth apprenticeship receive industry- specific training and gain hands-on  experience working with We Energies  employees in the field. Meanwhile, the  design youth apprenticeship program gives  students a two-year opportunity to learn  about natural gas design and engineering in  an office setting. Over 220 MPS students have worked with our  company through this program. Our goal is to  provide applied learning and an avenue for a  strong career after  graduation. While students  are""
""in the program, they also learn how to  secure their futures with money management  courses, mentoring, and interview and  resume training. In 2024, We Energies and Milwaukee Area  Technical College celebrated the one-year  anniversary of the new campus for the school’s  popular Electrical Power Distribution Line  Mechanic program. Located in the heart of  Milwaukee’s Metcalfe Park neighborhood,  the campus combines land owned by   We Energies and the Redevelopment  Authority of the City of""
""Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  42 How we develop and engage our  employees Our leaders have the responsibility to continually  develop the talent of their organizations through the  broadening and deepening of business, technical  and leadership knowledge. Over the next five years, approximately  34% of  employees at WEC Energy Group companies will be  eligible to retire. In 2024, 3% of the WEC Energy Group  workforce retired, which was consistent with 2023. Succession""
""tuition discounts to employees. The majority of our current senior leaders  were identified and promoted through our  succession planning process. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  43 Leadership development We recognize that leadership development is key  to building and sustaining a strong organization.  Programs are offered corporately and within  individual business units.  The corporate leadership development""
""Union of Operating Engineers (WPS) April 16, 2029 No. 2285, International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers  June 30, 2029 WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  44 Federal and state laws We are subject to federal and state labor laws,   which address: •   Freedom of association and collective   bargaining •    Child labor •   Forced and compulsory labor Company operations do not interfere with employees’  freedom of""
""achievement of corporate  goals while recognizing individual performance.  For  2024, award funding for management employees   was based on achievement of company performance  related to targets for cost control, customer  satisfaction, safety, and supplier and workforce  diversity. Individual awards are based on individual  performance toward objectives. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  45 Business resource groups To""
""In 2024, multiple BRGs collaborated to  support established charitable initiatives  across our companies, including  collection drives for food, supplies  and holiday presents.  The groups also  continued to join the All-BRG Movement  Challenge, with over 300 employees,  leaders and executives participating. Our BRGs are making a difference  across our companies. Further  highlights of their accomplishments  in 2024 included:  For the fifth consecutive  year, WEC Energy Group  was presented with""
""PrideFest in  Milwaukee and representing Peoples Gas at the Human First  Gala for Center on Halsted. Women’s Development Network hosted an executive panel  discussion commemorating International Women’s Day, a  speed mentoring event and informational presentations, and  volunteered with organizations including MacCanon Brown  Homeless Sanctuary and Golden House. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  46 Safety and health""
""we ask  our team members to look out for each other — to  speak up and work together to make the workplace  safer. That culture of caring is at the heart of our  Target Zero commitment.”       Kevin Wood  Director — Safety and Health  WEC Energy Group WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  47 Targeting excellence in safety performance In addition to the established safety structure, a broad-based team  directs efforts to""
""RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  48 Focused on front-line safety Our employees are empowered to make changes in the field and in  our plants. Through our high-risk task reviews, business units assess different  high-risk procedures or work methods, often using cross-functional  teams. The goal is to find opportunities to reduce risk by engaging  front-line workers on how work is performed. In partnership with Local 420 of the International Union of""
""physical and  mental health. In 2023 and 2024, Wisconsin Public Service achieved the lowest  DART incident rate among AGA companies of its size and type.  Michigan Gas Utilities also has been recognized as a category  leader for the lowest DART incident rate among its AGA peers,  and Minnesota Energy Resources has been recognized for five  consecutive years via the Minnesota Governor’s Safety Award. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social""
""analysis of our data. We will  continue to foster a strong reporting and action-oriented culture in the workplace. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  50 Contractor safety expectations WEC Energy Group companies provide contractors  with safety program expectations to reinforce the  importance of performing work safely on company  property and at company facilities, without  unnecessary risks and hazards. Contractors are""
""The wellness programs facilitate health screenings, host health  challenges for individuals and teams, and provide other resources to encourage  employees to prioritize their mental and physical health. North Shore Gas employee does a morning stretch before heading for field work. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  51 Public safety We support public safety throughout our  operations and in our communities. System safety""
""and security  The safety of our employees and the public is  our priority as we build and operate natural  gas and electric distribution lines and facilities. We follow an integrity management program for  natural gas transmission pipelines in accordance  with local, state and federal regulations that includes  annual risk analyses and physical assessments.  Peoples Gas and North Shore Gas are in the process of  enhancing their approach to improving pipeline safety  by implementing the Pipeline""
""Safety Management  System. This system focuses on proactive risk  identification and mitigation that goes beyond existing  regulatory requirements. The various changes driven  by this program continually increase the safety of our  operations and reliability of our system. Similarly, as detailed in the Energy Reliability section  on Page 61, we monitor the integrity of electric  distribution lines. Electric distribution infrastructure  upgrades replace aging equipment according to a  plan that""
""telecommunications systems, loss of natural gas or  electric operations, and damage to facilities. Managing the risk of wildfire and other electric system incidents Although the risk of wildfires in our service area is relatively low, our safety practices help to  protect against impacts from fire or severe weather events. We engage external  meteorological services to provide current and forecast information to us regarding pertinent  weather conditions. This includes daily updates on any""
""heightened fire risks in our service  areas. In the event of an incident, we have the ability to operate main circuits remotely to de- energize and/or isolate impacted areas. In addition to our monitoring and maintenance activities, we proactively support electric  system integrity through significant investments in system hardening and resiliency  initiatives. This includes the conversion of over 2,000 miles of overhead electric systems  to underground during the past 10 years, as well as the""
""hardening of over 6,000 miles of  overhead systems during the same period with stronger wires, poles and associated support  structures. We plan to invest further in overhead-to-underground conversion to continue  improving safety and reliability in higher-risk areas. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  52 Education and outreach Our companies proactively share safety information with  a variety of audiences, including""
""students, teachers,  families, contractors, first responders and customers. Contractors Construction contractors are a key audience. Our companies  reach out annually to provide needed instruction on working  safely around energy facilities. By state law, property owners and contractors must call 811 to have  underground facilities marked before they dig. We communicate  the importance of safe digging through a variety of channels,  including direct mail, social media campaigns, customer""
""Minnesota Energy Resources partners with other  Minnesota pipeline operators to review and train firefighters,  police, emergency medical personnel and contractors on proper  procedures for identifying and working near natural gas lines.  Peoples Gas and North Shore Gas  are members of the Illinois  Pipeline Emergency Responders Initiative, a  partnership between  the Illinois Fire Chief’s Association and natural gas utilities and  pipeline companies in the state to provide free training on how""
""to  respond to gas emergencies. Customers Customers of all our utilities receive energy safety information  through a variety of channels, including our bill inserts, direct  mail, email, company websites, paid advertising and social  media. Annual campaigns address the importance of safe  digging, preparing for the possibility of power outages, and how  to identify and report a natural gas leak, among others. Students All of our utilities provide teachers, students and parents with  access to""
""online resources for energy education through the  e-Smart Kids website. We Energies, WPS, Michigan Gas Utilities  and North Shore Gas offer additional classroom materials, such  as brochures and posters, at no charge to educators upon  request. WPS also collaborates regularly with the Einstein Project  in Green Bay, Wisconsin, to promote electric and natural gas  safety and efficiency. Agriculture services and safety We Energies and WPS have well-established agriculture services  programs.""
""identify  farm wiring deficiencies. We Energies and WPS representatives participate on the Midwest  Rural Energy Council and the University of Wisconsin Stray  Voltage Investigator Training Series. Additionally, representatives  participate on many committees and boards within the  agriculture industry. WPS also hosted its 62nd annual Farm  Show in 2024. The three-day event allows agricultural  businesses and the community to check out the latest in farm  equipment, services and technology.""
""the items purchased with the 2024 grants  included a rescue boat, K-9 training, water and ice rescue suits,  more than 25 gas detectors, and 13 automatic external defibrillators. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  53 Promoting safety in our communities Our companies regularly share the importance of electric and natural gas safety at public events. In August 2024, We Energies employees connected with customers in  the""
""company’s Energy Park exhibit at the Wisconsin State Fair. Energy  Park features energy-related exhibits and demonstrations — including  presentations highlighting important safety information for children  and families. This family tradition remains one of our most significant  customer touchpoints. More than 62,000 fairgoers visited Energy Park  over 11 days.  To promote safe digging We Energies, Wisconsin Public Service (WPS),  Peoples Gas, North Shore Gas, Minnesota Energy Resources and""
""Michigan Gas Utilities unveiled their safe digging “ambassadogs”  at special events throughout their service areas. Customers submit  photos of their digging dogs in annual “Doggone It!” contests run by  our companies. The winning dogs are featured in advertising materials to  help educate the public about the importance of calling 811 before digging. In the spring, We Energies participated in Brewers Weather Day.  Employees from Electric Operations, Natural Gas Operations and  Damage Prevention""
""taught more than 8,000 school-aged children  from Wisconsin and Illinois about energy safety. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  54 Community engagement Arts and   culture  20% Community and  neighborhood  development 29% Education 31% Environment Health   and human   services    16% 5% $19 million in donations from our   charitable giving programs and foundations  $2.5 million in additional donations   to low-income""
""customer programs 2024 giving to nonprofits* Steve Liegl, director — infrastructure and operations at WEC Energy Group,   volunteers with Rebuilding Together of the Greater Green Bay area. Our charitable giving and employee volunteering  help those in need in our communities. We are dedicated to supporting the well-being of our neighbors,  vitality of our region and preservation of the natural world around  us. Our companies make financial contributions to nonprofit,  tax-exempt organizations in""
""our communities. In support of  our priority sustainability issues, our focus areas for giving  are education, community and neighborhood development, arts  and culture, health and human services, and the environment. Funding through foundations, operations Our employees take an active role in their communities, serving on  nonprofit boards and volunteering their time. Our companies and  associated business resource groups promote a range of volunteer  opportunities for employees. Workplace""
""giving campaigns in our  subsidiary companies also support the arts and numerous United Way  organizations in the areas we serve. We Energies and Wisconsin Public Service (WPS) each operate  foundations. The We Energies Foundation supports organizations  within the We Energies and Upper Michigan Energy Resources service  areas. The WPS Foundation operates within the WPS, Minnesota Energy  Resources, Michigan Gas Utilities and Upper Michigan Energy Resources  service areas. Peoples Gas and North""
""consistent approach to funding within the focus  areas, better enabling the organizations to achieve lasting results. •     Foster mutually beneficial relationships between our subsidiaries  and community organizations. *  Percentages add up to 101% due to rounding WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  55 Supporting organizations throughout our communities In 2024, we contributed to organizations addressing critical  needs""
""Chicago public high school teens  opportunities to explore and develop their talents, while  gaining critical skills for work, college and beyond. After  School Matters managed and coordinated all operations,  administration, training and program execution for 2024  Peoples Gas Dig into Energy summer programs. The  programs taught 75 teens about natural gas energy and  careers in the industry. A hands-on curriculum explored  engineering, math and physics concepts through project- based learning,""
""with a focus on natural gas and the  engineering design process.  Helping students succeed in partnership with local colleges,  universities and technical schools In 2024, our companies and foundations continued to offer a variety of scholarships as well as  other support for secondary education programs in our service areas. The We Energies Foundation supported All-In Milwaukee’s college completion program, which  is focused on creating opportunities for students with high financial need and""
""needed in our industry, the WPS Foundation supported  Northcentral Technical College with a grant to purchase a gasless leak trainer for its Gas Utility  Construction and Service program. This tool will help meet the hands-on education/training  requirements for natural gas emergencies and hazardous leak investigations. Students at Northcentral Technical College practice testing for gas leaks.   © Northcentral Technical College WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company""
""Environmental Social Customers Governance  56 Community and neighborhood  development We see the needs of our neighbors and work to  provide essential services and resources. It’s  through these efforts that we help strengthen the  fabric of our communities. American Red Cross — The WPS and We Energies  foundations and Peoples Gas all supported American  Red Cross campaigns to reduce the number of fire  deaths and injuries in the U.S. The campaigns distribute,  install and test smoke alarms in""
""program provides homebuyer and  financial counseling, real estate brokerage and rehab  expertise to families.  Habitat for Humanity — Our companies have a long  history of supporting Habitat for Humanity, addressing  the problem of accessible housing in a concrete way  so families can achieve stability and independence.  In 2024, the We Energies and WPS foundations  continued their annual participation in Women’s Build,  and nearly 40 Peoples Gas employees participated  in Build Day on Chicago’s""
""South Side. The WPS  Foundation also supported the Habitat Homestead  with a grant to develop 14 homes in Green Bay,  which will serve up to 92 people.     Friends of Bay Beach — The WPS Foundation  provided support to help build a new inclusive  playground at Bay Beach Amusement Park, which  has been a major Green Bay attraction for over a  century. The playground offers a variety of equipment  that encourages social and creative play, and can be  used by individuals with different mobility,""
""landscapes of Milwaukee and the  surrounding region. Most of the artwork was created  by local artists or those with ties to the area, and the  collection gives patrons a look into the past and  present of the city.  Lakeville Area Arts Center — Minnesota Energy  Resources, in partnership with the WPS Foundation,  supported Lakeville Area Arts Center with a grant to  purchase a new gas kiln in the pottery studio at the  newly opened Fine Arts Building. Field Museum of Natural History — Peoples""
""Gas  supported the Field Museum of Natural History’s  Keller Science Action Center, which works in  partnership with more than 30 schools and  organizations to implement environmental education  programs and fulfill conservation priorities throughout  the region. The Keller Center provides conservation  programs for young people that connect them  to nature and enhance science learning through  student experiences in nature. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company""
""Environmental Social Customers Governance  57 Health and human services Our culture of caring extends throughout the  areas we serve. As we focus on safety and  health across our operations, our charitable  giving supports the same goals. Kinship Community Food Center — The   We Energies Foundation supported Kinship’s  programming, including addressing food scarcity,  crisis assistance and mentoring, and employment  readiness and training.    Sixteenth Street Community Center — The   We Energies""
""Foundation contributed to the parenting  resource center, which provides parenting classes to  improve infant and child safety, and helps parents  and caregivers develop strong and healthy  relationships with their children.  Share the Warmth of Hillsdale County —   Michigan Gas Utilities, in partnership with the WPS  Foundation, supported the emergency nighttime- only warming center with the purchase of two new  industrial washers and dryers for residents to use at  the shelter.        Girls on""
""members  struggling with poverty or homelessness. Programs  offer low- to high-touch housing support; case  management; food, hygiene and survival supplies;  and social support for unhoused and precariously- housed Chicagoans. Environment Our commitment to environmental responsibility  includes support for organizations making  a difference in our local parks and natural  habitats, and investing in the future through  environmental education.   Bookworm Gardens — The We Energies and  WPS""
""Foundations assisted with a grant to support  the nature-based exploration garden along with the  construction of a classroom yurt. This yurt will allow  youth to explore the natural world and create  memories.  Riveredge Nature Center — The We Energies  Foundation contributed to Riveredge’s education  center, a new facility to welcome, support and  transition learners to a world of discovery and  learning within a natural sanctuary. The center is  a community hub where people can connect with""
""others and access outdoor experiences.    Green Bay Botanical Gardens — The WPS  Foundation supported the building of a new  children’s garden. This garden will provide youth  hands-on learning through play and guided  environmental education programs. Openlands — Peoples Gas supported Openlands in  protecting the natural and open spaces of  northeastern Illinois and the surrounding region. The  Garden and Nature Education program emphasizes  the importance of nature play, as it has positive""
""effects on children and helps them to develop a  lifelong love of conservation values. Over 90 Chicago  Public Schools are part of the Garden and Nature  Education program, which serves approximately  53,000 children in the network. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  58 Supply chain integrity We are committed to maintaining a strong  supply base to meet current and future  business requirements. We forge relationships""
""with high-quality suppliers that deliver value  to our operations and customers. We evaluate suppliers on environmental, safety, legal,  ethical and financial factors. The supplier selection  decision is based upon quality, safety, environmental  compliance, diversity, and ability to deliver on the  work requirement and schedule. The driving factor  on most equipment and material purchases is the  total cost of ownership. We have no formal policy to prefer locally based  suppliers, but""
""traditionally, we realize economic  advantages when procuring goods and services  within the Midwest. Geographic location is a factor  when determining freight charges and logistics. Investment and procurement practices As equal opportunity employers, our companies require  suppliers to comply with all federal, state and local  employment laws, rules and regulations. In addition, our  developer partners for solar energy projects have signed  the Solar Industry Forced Labor Prevention Pledge to""
""Environmental management — Suppliers must  meet specific baseline environmental performance  requirements. Fitness for duty — We require suppliers to adhere to  our fitness-for-duty policies and to participate in a  fitness-for-duty program as applicable. Information security — We secure bid information  and communication with suppliers through internal  policies as well as the configuration of e-sourcing  tools. Access to all sourcing information is limited to  authorized users on a need-to-""
""know basis. Procurement policies — Procurement policies are  designed so that our departments work with our  Supply Chain department to bid work fairly. Supply  Chain verifies that the bid list is fair, inclusive of diverse  suppliers, and consistent with our bid process rules. Supplier risk assessment — Where applicable,  Supply Chain assesses suppliers based on  environmental, safety, financial, ethical and  legal factors before and during their contractual  relationship with us. WEC ENERGY""
""GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  59 Supplier performance expectations Supply Chain uses the contracting process to make  suppliers aware of our performance expectations.  We provide information to the general supply  base through the request for proposal process  and expect our suppliers to emulate our culture of  excellence. Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets out  key responsibilities and requirements. Contracts with suppliers""
""in Kenosha,  Wisconsin WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  60 Our energy companies are committed to  creating an excellent experience for every  customer by offering a range of service  options and truly personal care — every  customer, every transaction, every time. Energy reliability       61 Customer satisfaction        64 Energy affordability         66 Economic development         68 Customers WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024""
""CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  61 Energy reliability Reliable service remains a top priority across our  companies. In 2024, we continued strengthening  and modernizing our generating assets, as well as  our electric and natural gas distribution networks,  to support reliability, safety and customer  satisfaction. Electric reliability We monitor the integrity of electric distribution lines  through routine patrols and comprehensive tree-""
""trimming  plans that maintain adequate clearance around wires and  poles. Specific programs include wood pole inspection,  replacement and treatment; porcelain cutout and arrester  replacement; infrared surveys; line recloser operations  counts; and line voltage regulator inspections. As shown in the table to the right, equipment and  vegetation management are the two largest contributors  to customer interruptions. We are proactively trimming  over 3,000 miles in 2025 at We Energies in the""
""southeast  Wisconsin and Fox Valley areas, and over 2,500 miles at  Wisconsin Public Service. We are also in the process of  planning our line clearance for 2026 through 2030 to trim  all trees in close proximity to our overhead conductors. This  effort will put us on a four-to-six-year cycle at both utilities   and is expected to substantially improve reliability by 2030.  In addition, we are in the process of burying 100 to 200  miles of overhead conductors per year over the next five to  10""
""years as part of our storm hardening program. This effort   is expected to provide improved reliability for both utilities  in areas that have experienced long and repeat outages  caused by equipment, vegetation, wildlife and weather. Power outages At WEC Energy Group ,  our goal is to deliver world-class  reliability to our customers. This includes achieving  annual  targets for outage frequency and restoration times. 2024 power outage statistics* We Energies WPS Frequency SAIFI1 0.83""
""interruptions 0.79 interruptions Average duration SAIDI2 160 minutes 120 minutes CAIDI3 192 minutes 152 minutes Power outages by cause Equipment 34% 20% Vegetation 35% 33% Weather 9% 19% Wildlife 10% 12% Public 6% 6% Other 5% 11% * Values exclude extraordinary storms, transmission-related outages and planned outages. 1    SAIFI: System Average Interruption Frequency Index — A SAIFI of 1.0 means that, on  average, a customer would experience one interruption in a year, while a SAIFI of 0.5""
""would equate to one interruption every two years. 2         SAIDI: System Average Interruption Duration Index — A SAIDI of 50 minutes means  that, on average, a customer would experience 50 minutes of interruption in a year. 3        CAIDI: Customer Average Interruption Duration Index — A CAIDI of 100 minutes means  that if a customer experiences an interruption, the average duration would be 100  minutes. Outage communications Our employees are committed to delivering the energy customers""
""depend on, regardless  of weather conditions. Customer satisfaction remains a top priority, and we work to  provide customers with prompt, helpful information during power outages. That’s why, when bad weather threatens, our electric energy companies mobilize to provide  customers with proactive, accurate and consistent information about the potential impact to  their service. We want customers to know we are monitoring forecasts, assessing employee  and contractor availability, and checking""
""and status of  their outage, and confirm that their service has been restored. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  62 Lending support to those in critical need Our employees work not only to provide reliable service to our  customers, but also to support the reliability of the national  power grid. We are part of our industry’s mutual assistance  network, a voluntary partnership of electric companies across  the U.S. that""
""may be called upon for grid restoration efforts.  When powerful hurricanes hit the Gulf Coast and knocked out  power to millions of people, our employees answered the call to  help.  Electric workers from We Energies and WPS loaded up their  trucks in Wisconsin and traveled to Florida to help restore  power to 2 million customers following Hurricane Milton. The  work setting was unusual for our workers — with snakes, palm  trees and hot October weather — but the focus remained the  same. The""
""crews worked a long, arduous week, spending  16-hour days clearing trees, replacing damaged poles and  restringing power lines. Crews said they heard from many  people  who thanked them for coming to help.  WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  63 Natural gas reliability We deliver reliable natural gas service to residential and business customers through a  network of underground pipes. Our natural gas distribution""
""companies regularly monitor  the integrity of our pipes and follow a plan to upgrade aging equipment. To provide reliable service and improve affordability, our companies buy natural gas when  prices are lower — usually in summer — and place it in storage. The stored natural gas is  then blended with natural gas that is price-locked through contracts and with natural gas  that is purchased on the spot market. This strategy reduces the impact of natural gas price  spikes on our customers. To""
""further support safety and reliability, We Energies completed the construction of two  liquefied natural gas (LNG) facilities in Wisconsin in 2023 and early 2024, and plans are  underway for additional LNG projects. These facilities store additional natural gas in  liquid form, helping to meet customers’ peak demand in the winter. More details on these  projects can be found in the “Operational performance” section of this report (Page 10). Providing reliable service through a diverse energy mix""
""Across the United States, utilities are responding to  energy demand growth driven by data center and  manufacturing developments. Major companies  have been investing in Wisconsin and working with  us to meet their energy needs. Between 2025 and 2029, we anticipate more than  1,800 megawatts (MW) of additional electric demand  — approximately 20% growth over our current  customer needs. Greater capacity, especially on the  electric side, will be required to provide affordable,  reliable and""
""clean energy for our communities. Our  capital plan addresses that demand with a range of  investments in reliable natural gas generation, new  renewables and storage.  Modern, efficient natural gas generation serves as  a critical resource in our energy transformation.  Extreme cold weather is one of the challenges  the Midwest faces as we integrate higher levels of  renewable energy technologies into our electric  system and continue to provide customers with the  natural gas they need to heat""
""their homes. On the  coldest and darkest days, wind and solar may not  be operational.  As part of our capital investment plan, we have   received approvals from the Public Service  Commission of Wisconsin to invest in additional  natural gas generating facilities at the Oak Creek  Power Plant and near our Paris Generating Station  in Kenosha County. These proposed modern,  efficient plants can power up in minutes, ensuring  energy stays flowing when demand spikes or  renewable power is""
""unavailable.  In addition, we plan to continue to invest in  alternative options, including battery storage, while  contributing to research to address the cold weather  challenges of electrifying vehicles and buildings. As  technology evolves, we remain focused on building  and maintaining a system that can meet our region’s  needs safely and reliably.  Bluff Creek LNG project, Walworth County, Wisconsin Oak Creek proposal rendering WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our""
""company Environmental Social Customers Governance  64 Customer satisfaction Our energy companies are committed to creating an  excellent experience for every customer by offering  personalized customer care — every customer, every  transaction, every time. Our companies invest in systems and processes to enhance our  ability to deliver energy to customers safely, cost-effectively and  dependably. This includes  protecting customer information and  providing information customers need to make""
""smart decisions  about their energy use and service options. Listening to our customers Understanding what customers want is a key to success. Our  companies want to know how customers feel about our energy  products, services and resources, and about their interactions  with our employees. We work to provide a positive experience and  make it easy to do business with us. A variety of feedback mechanisms help us get a complete picture  of customers’ experiences with our companies. The feedback""
""satisfaction surveys are used daily at all of our energy  companies to measure performance on key transactions and  gauge overall satisfaction. Approximately 42,000 customers  provided feedback in 2024 about their experiences with the  following transactions: •   Residential and business  customer contacts •   Residential move orders •       Mobile app and online  account transactions •   Billing and payment •   Electric outage management •    Natural gas emergencies •       New service""
""10-point scale. Company Satisfaction with: Utility Transaction Michigan Gas Utilities   90.2%   90.8% Minnesota Energy Resources   89.0%   89.3% North Shore Gas   87.9%   88.9% Peoples Gas   82.2%   84.9% We Energies   82.0%   85.6% Wisconsin Public Service   87.1%   88.8% For the purpose of external and internal customer satisfaction measures, Upper Michigan Energy  Resources customers are associated with their previous service providers, We Energies and WPS. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE""
""RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  65 Digital engagement We use social media to communicate with customers and enhance  their experience. Social media channels are monitored, and customers  receive personal responses to specific questions and concerns. Our  companies continue to expand their social media platforms. During storms and other events, our companies use traditional channels,  online outage maps and social media to warn customers about the""
""dangers associated with downed wires and damaged natural gas mains.  Customized alerts provide some customers with proactive, real-time  communication about electric outages. In 2024, there were over 3,000 residential customers on MyEnergyPanel,  our online feedback group. They share their opinions with us through  monthly surveys and discussions. MyEnergyPanel is dedicated to  improving the overall customer experience, focusing on experiences  with customer service, energy reliability, bill""
""tampering  issues. •  Provide customers with more usage- and demand-based billing and  energy management options, including projected bill alerts. •  Enable faster, more convenient completion of electric meter  connection and reconnection service requests. •    Enable additional system reliability options through distribution  automation. Customer service recognition WEC Energy Group ranked first overall in the 2024   E Source Large Business Customer Satisfaction Study. Wisconsin Public Service""
""was named a ‘Customer  Champion’ and one of the ‘Most Trusted Brands’ in  Escalent’s 2024 Utility Trusted Brand & Customer  Engagement: Residential study.  As of year-end 2024, 98.6% of We Energies electric load  and 100% of WPS electric load were served by smart grid  technology. Smart meters served approximately 71% of  electric and natural gas customers across our companies. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  66""
""Energy affordability Providing affordable and reliable energy is at the forefront of  everything we do. To help customers take an active part in  managing their energy use and expenses, we provide them with  tools and programs to achieve those goals. Offering options Customers have different needs and preferences, so offering choices to  them is important. Billing options, which vary by energy company, include  online billing, seasonal billing, renewable energy pricing, and budget billing  to""
""spread energy charges more evenly over 12 months. Payment arrangements. Difficult circumstances can arise that may prevent  customers from paying their bills in full. We encourage customers having  problems paying their bills to work with our companies to keep their service  connected. We offer flexible payment arrangements based upon each  customer’s individual situation. Flexibility may be reflected in timelines,  required down payment amounts and payment plan time frames. Options for low-""
""income customers. Our companies work collaboratively  with government agencies and community-based organizations throughout  our service areas to address the needs of our low-income customers. We  inform customers about home energy assistance through federal and state  funding. In 2024, the Low Income Discount program was implemented in  Illinois as required by the Illinois Commerce Commission. A monthly charge  to all Illinois customers pays for a percentage of the bills of qualified low-""
""income customers. Through our energy efficiency programs, we offer rebates for affordable  housing projects and dedicated low-income multifamily properties. We also  provide weatherization services for some customers on our low-income  payment plans and partner with state weatherization programs. Our companies make regular contributions to nonprofit organizations to help  provide financial assistance and case management services. Through phone  consultations, our company websites and other""
""communications, we provide  efficiency tips to help our customers save money on their energy bills. Our companies contributed approximately $2.5 million to low-income  customer programs in 2024. Energy management services In Wisconsin, our companies provide some business customers with energy  management services, including site assessments, carbon footprint analyses,  technical monitoring and consultations. Account managers work with our  largest customers to facilitate solutions and, where""
""available, offer incentives  related to energy efficiency, optimization and sustainability. Time-of-use rates Our electric energy companies offer time-of-use options through which  customers can reduce their monthly bills by shifting some of their energy  use to off-peak hours, the times when energy demand and rates are lower.  While these programs benefit residential customers, they also are attractive  to small-business customers who have the flexibility to avoid energy use  during critical""
""peak periods. Focus on Energy is the statewide energy  efficiency and renewable resource  program funded by Wisconsin’s  investor-owned energy utilities and  participating municipal and electric  cooperatives. In 2024, Focus on Energy  offered financial incentives and technical  assistance to help eligible customers  reduce their energy waste. According  to an independent evaluation of 2024  programs, Focus on Energy delivered  $ 4.17 in benefits to Wisconsin  residents and businesses for every""
""$1  spent, resulting in economic benefits,  reduced energy costs and reduced  emissions. Its overall customer satisfaction rating for  2024 was  9.4 on a 10-point scale. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  67 Our programs provide critical support to  customers in need In early 2024, the 4U2 program team received a lead regarding a  customer in Canby, Minnesota, who was facing a heating system  failure and required urgent""
""assistance.  After swiftly replacing the furnace to restore heat, we conducted  an audit and identified key opportunities for insulation and air  sealing upgrades to enhance the home’s efficiency. Through this  process, we transformed an urgent request into a comprehensive  energy-saving project, delivering 61.4 dekatherms (Dth) in  weatherization savings plus an additional 27 Dth from the furnace  upgrade — resulting in total savings of 88.4  Dth annually and an  18% increase in the home’s""
""efficiency.   This initiative improved the home’s energy efficiency and provided  much-needed relief to a customer in a vulnerable situation. The  homeowner was extremely grateful for the support and upgrades,  reaffirming the impact of ensuring accessible energy solutions for  those in need. About the 4U2 program  Due to Minnesota Energy Resources’ broad and non- contiguous service territory, the 100% utility-funded 4U2  program was developed to  provide targeted support for  income-eligible""
""customers who may not easily be served  by the  Low Income Weatherization program due to location  or rurality. The program  delivers weatherization services  to eligible single-family homes, townhomes, and small  multifamily dwellings of up to four units. In 2024, Minnesota  Energy Resources was able to improve 286 households  through the 4U2 program, resulting in over 5,550 Dth in  natural gas savings. Energy efficiency programs Our customers are taking control of their energy use through a""
""variety of  programs. Customers in all of our service areas are eligible to participate  in utility-sponsored energy efficiency incentive programs. Utility energy  efficiency programs in each service area have specific energy savings  goals/targets as approved by regulators, and energy savings achievement  goes through a formal evaluation, measurement and verification process. In Wisconsin and Michigan, the Focus on Energy and Efficiency United  programs, respectively, provide customers with""
""energy-saving rebates  and incentives.  Our Illinois companies, Peoples Gas and North Shore Gas,  offer free energy assessments, free or discounted energy-saving products,  and other incentives to residential and low-income customers. They also  provide high-level engineering studies and incentives to help commercial  and industrial customers optimize their gas systems, along with enhanced  support for public sector customers such as schools and hospitals. In  Minnesota, the Minnesota Energy""
""Resources Conservation Improvement  Program offers commercial, industrial and residential customers services  including energy audits and comprehensive analyses, new construction  design assistance, and energy-saving rebates.  Energy-saving rebates and discounts vary by company and include  rebates for furnaces, boilers, insulation and air sealing, and discounts for  Energy Star-certified appliances, smart thermostats, LED lighting, smart  lighting and custom projects. Residential customers also""
""can participate in virtual energy audits to  determine how they can make their homes more energy-efficient through  low- to no-cost upgrades. Customers who participate in a full-home energy  assessment can see heating and cooling energy-saving opportunities of  20% to more than 50%. Our energy companies communicate energy efficiency options via our  online platforms, newsletters, social media, training events, direct mailers  and bill inserts. Efficiency programs made an impact in our""
""communities in 2024 Aggregate of all WEC Energy Group utilities* Participating customers 265,983 First-year kWh savings** 293,856,237 First-year therm savings** 29,594,215 Conservation spending by our companies $125.7 million Rebates/incentives earned by customers  $55.6 million   * Aggregate gross data from  We Energies, Wisconsin Public Service, Peoples Gas,   North Shore Gas, Minnesota Energy Resources, Michigan Gas Utilities and   Upper Michigan Energy Resources. ** “First-year” refers to""
""the first, full-year savings achieved by the customer.  Note: Not all programs run on the same operating year. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  68 Growing opportunity in our region Economic growth continues to flourish in our service areas, particularly  along the I-94 corridor between Milwaukee and the Illinois state line.  Companies are investing in major projects, including data centers and  modern manufacturing""
""supported by a  companywide team led by account managers who  work proactively to help manage customer energy  needs. Annually, account managers and key  customers develop joint plans outlining energy-  and sustainability-related goals, expectations and  initiatives. In addition, account managers look for  opportunities to introduce emerging technologies  including electric vehicle and renewable energy  rate options, reduce energy waste through energy  efficiency services, assist with business""
""expansions,  and perform other tasks as company liaisons for  our largest customers. Other business customers can access targeted  services and receive recommendations on energy  efficiency measures through our customer care  centers. Online tools make it possible for business  customers to analyze and manage their energy  use. Customers can receive monthly alerts  on energy use changes, identify usage trends  and patterns, forecast forward-looking energy  budgets, and access an online library""
""of energy  efficiency information. Public-private partnerships WEC Energy Group partners with local economic development  organizations to help attract and retain new businesses and  talent. Company leaders, account managers and other company  representatives serve as liaisons with regional, state and local  economic development agencies, providing financial and/or  in-kind support, such as: •     Board and committee involvement •       Site selection support •        Project analysis related to""
""energy infrastructure and rates •   Project oversight and monitoring Dedicated leaders forge relationships with these agencies to  equip existing and prospective customers with the tools they  need to grow sustainably. Market-based rates Qualifying We Energies and Wisconsin Public Service commercial  and industrial electric customers may purchase a portion of their  load at market prices. Customers on these rates can manage their  energy usage in a market environment of risks and rewards. Using""
""company Environmental Social Customers Governance  69 Governance Successful, sustainable business is driven  by effective governance and stakeholder  engagement.  Governance framework         70 Cybersecurity        75 Stakeholder transparency     76 Government relations         78 WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  70 Governance framework  We believe that effective and transparent corporate governance is an essential""
""board  committee charters. The board’s oversight also includes reviewing with  senior management its approach to decision- making, leading to more effective oversight of  the company’s short-, medium- and long-term  strategies and operational objectives. Educational  sessions, presented by internal and external  subject matter experts and advisers, help the  board understand the environment within which  the company operates and the associated risks  and opportunities.  The board regularly""
""Senior leadership/CEO experience •      Strategic planning •    Sustainability matters •        Technology and security •       Utility/energy industry experience Core competencies 46%   diverse 0-4  years   5-9  years   > 10 years   Average   tenure: 7.2 years 3 6 4 More information on our directors and board structure is provided in the governance  section of our company’s website, along with publications devoted to those topics,  including the annual proxy statement.  11   are   independent""
""WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  71 Risk management Our board of directors is responsible for providing  oversight of our major strategic initiatives, which  requires ongoing dialogue with our senior  management about opportunities and risks, and  the processes through which senior management  maintains focus on the organization’s  economic and  business environment and objectives, corporate  policies, and overall""
""financial, environmental and  social performance. Senior management, in turn, is  responsible for effectively planning and executing  daily operations within a strong risk framework. With that in mind, our company has created a  framework from which management is able to  provide meaningful information to the board to aid  in its oversight responsibility, as described below. Internal reviews and audits As a standing corporate practice, each year,  management  systematically evaluates the""
""identified subjects.  Given the significant risks and opportunities  associated with climate change, management has  created the Climate Risk Committee, under the  guidance of the CEO. The Climate Risk Committee  brings together senior-level officers responsible for  overall climate-related corporate strategy and meets  at least quarterly to review and discuss climate-related  goals, risks and opportunities.  As detailed in the “Cybersecurity” section of this  report (Page 75), our cybersecurity""
""2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  72 Board oversight To carry out its oversight function, the board  and its committees meet regularly throughout  the year. Board members receive briefings  prepared by management and outside advisers  on specific areas of current and emerging risks  as captured through the company’s enterprise  risk management framework. The committees  routinely report to the full board. The board believes that its""
""leadership structure,  in combination with the company’s enterprise  risk management framework, effectively  supports its oversight function. Board:  Short- and long-term strategy and strategic  initiatives; risk management processes;  leadership succession planning; Code of  Business Conduct; mergers and acquisitions;  corporate sustainability matters (including  climate and emissions reduction strategies);  and regular reporting from board committees  on specific risk oversight""
""Audit Services department; financial reporting; ethics and compliance program;  and legal and regulatory risk and compliance matters including environmental, data privacy  and security (including cyber, physical and operating technology), government relations  (including political spending and lobbying), litigation, and electric reliability standards. Finance Committee:   Capital allocation; capital structure and financings; employee  retirement and benefit plan assets; and insurance and other""
""financial risk management programs. Examples of risk  monitoring activity that   has been designated  to the full board and its  committees include: WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  73 Ethics and compliance Employees have a responsibility to preserve the  ethical standards of our company as they conduct  business affairs. The purpose of the ethics and  compliance program is to promote an organizational  culture that""
""and contributions, and insider trading). ﻿ WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  74 Communication and training Continual employee development and awareness of  potential ethical dilemmas remain priorities. All new  employees receive Code of Business Conduct and  other core compliance training to be completed  within 30 days of hire. To maintain a high level of  awareness, all employees are required annually to  confirm""
""to participate in a workplace ethics survey gauging  their perceptions of the company’s actions, processes and operating style. The results  provide management with the ability to assess our ethical climate. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  75 Cybersecurity The energy industry requires the use of  sophisticated information technology systems  and network infrastructure, and we understand  the importance of securing""
""of  cybersecurity education. Our cybersecurity awareness program delivers key  and topical cybersecurity messages throughout  the year through posters, bulletins and intranet  announcements. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  76 Stakeholder transparency We seek to build strong, collaborative relationships with our stakeholders, including customers,  communities, investors and employees. Many areas of the company work""
""the size and scope of a  project, we may host informational meetings. Many internal communications are designed to inform and  support our employees as they contribute to sustainability- related projects. Our plans and targets have been  highlighted across subsidiaries through our ‘Top  10+’  goals, regular corporate news on our intranet and leader  communications on our progress. To encourage feedback and ideas for potential  improvements, a number of location- and department- specific channels""
""are open to employees. These include  Q&A opportunities and a companywide near miss and  unsafe condition reporting program. 1 Communication on projects 2 Employee involvement Oak Creek, Wisconsin Our five-year capital plan calls for building modern, efficient natural gas generation  and the infrastructure needed to fuel it. At our Oak Creek site, we are planning to  build new combustion turbines as well as a liquefied natural gas storage facility. In  addition, a new pipeline is planned to""
""extend approximately 30 miles and connect  the generation site to our existing natural gas distribution network. Since announcing our Oak Creek plans in early 2024, we have communicated the  need and scope of the project to employees, municipal and state officials, regulators,  customers, residents, the media, and other interested parties. Our stakeholder  outreach has included one-on-one conversations, informational meetings, a site tour  and media interviews. Our goal is to provide""
""stakeholders with opportunities and  information to understand how we are moving forward in providing the energy our  customers depend on. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  77 Our operations are over 90% regulated, covering diverse service areas  across the Midwest. We work closely with regulators as we put our  corporate strategy into practice — from local project planning to larger- scale investments. Our regulatory""
""and external affairs teams communicate  with state and federal regulators and their respective staffs; state and  local lawmakers; and environmental, community and consumer groups.  Through our communications, we present our plans, demonstrate the need  and customer benefits for investments, present and support proposals for  recovery of those investments, and comply with regulatory requirements. As federal and state regulators review our utility companies’ investments and  rate proposals, our""
""organizations. In those responses,  we disclose information on our operations and the steps we are taking to  continue to provide an affordable, reliable and clean energy supply . Paris, Wisconsin We are committed to providing reliable energy service through a balanced mix of natural gas generation, renewables and storage. Paris, Wisconsin, is a key example  of this diverse energy portfolio. In 2024, we brought online a large-scale renewable energy project there, and we are also planning to""
""build a 128-megawatt  reciprocating internal combustion engine plant in the Town of Paris. We work closely with stakeholders during the planning, regulatory and construction process of our projects. In Paris, we continue to have ongoing conversations  with municipal and state officials, regulators, customers, residents, the media and other interested parties. Our stakeholder outreach starts by having one-on-one  conversations with our neighbors and municipal leaders to discuss the project and""
""priority sustainability issues: •     Corporate strategy •    Climate change and  decarbonization •   Human capital management •      Community support •     Fuel diversity and reliability •        Safety •        Affordability In addition to engaging directly with our stakeholders, we report on  sustainability-related topics in a number of ways. We have published  this annual corporate responsibility report for the past two decades,  and our climate report presents our climate-related""
""governance and  strategy in more detail. We routinely respond to data verification and survey requests from  third-party organizations, and we have disclosed information on  our operations and climate-related risks and opportunities to CDP  (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) for over a decade. We also  are participating in initiatives led by Edison Electric Institute and  American Gas Association to promote consistency and transparency  in sustainability reporting across the energy utility""
""sector. Reports can be found on the Corporate Responsibility page of our  website: www.wecenergygroup.com/csr. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  78 Government relations We advocate on behalf of our customers,  stockholders and employees for affordable,  reliable and clean energy before local,  state and federal elected officials and  government agencies. We maintain governmental and regulatory relations  offices in""
""offices to benefit energy  safety, reliability and affordability, without regard for  executives’ personal political preferences. In Illinois, we are allowed to make corporate  political contributions to candidates for election to  state and local offices, subject to statutory limits. In  Wisconsin, we may make corporate contributions  of up to $12,000 per calendar year to a segregated  fund account of a political party committee or a  legislative campaign committee. All other political""
""$183,000 $184,050 Illinois total $190,280 $183,000 $18 4,050 Total $444,022 $347,635 $406,875 For an up-to-date list of WEC PAC Wisconsin contributions, search for “WEC Energy Group PAC” at: https://cfis.wi.gov/Public/Registration.aspx?page=FiledReports  For an up-to-date list of WEC conduits, search for “WEC Energy Group PCA” at: https://cfis.wi.gov/Public/Registration.aspx?page=ViewConduitContributions For an up-to-date list of WEC PAC federal contributions, search for “WEC Energy Group” at:""
""https://www.fec.gov/data/receipts.  ﻿ WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  79 Organization Membership dues  Jan. 1 through Dec. 31, 2024 Portion of dues used by  organization for political purposes American Gas Association    $1,056,307     $45,421  Association of Edison Illuminating Companies 25,272 — Edison Electric Institute 1,340,656  227,912  Illinois Energy Association 40,000  22,000  Illinois Manufacturers’""
""Association 18,333  2,447 Metropolitan Milwaukee Association of Commerce 204,874  4,097  Michigan Electric and Gas Association 92,595  De minimis  Michigan Manufacturers Association 4,930  1,233  Minnesota Utility Investors 23,000 8,050 National Hydropower Association 28,683 4,303 Utilities Technology Council 25,058 1,253 Wisconsin Manufacturers & Commerce 65,922  7,911  Wisconsin Paper Council 10,308 1,546 Wisconsin Utilities Association 268,647  40,297  Wisconsin Utility Investors 136,700""
""Disclosure Board. Trade organization memberships We belong to a number of state and federal trade and membership  organizations that engage in political activities. Such organizations are  required to report the portion of company dues used for political purposes. Through our trade organization memberships, we collaborate with industry  peers, conduct benchmarking on sustainability-related metrics, provide input  and advocate for our stakeholders. We have worked with these groups to  promote""
""consistent sustainability reporting and goals within our industry. We  believe that lobbying conducted by these organizations generally supports  emissions reduction in our industry, and we further support disclosure from  the organizations on policy positions and lobbying related to climate matters. In cases where the positions supported by our trade organizations differ from  our own, we take a proactive approach in making our case to organization  members and try to dissuade them from the""
""position. If necessary, we may  abstain from the group’s efforts or express our dissent. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  80 Public policy positions  ✔ Support   ✖ Oppose   ♦ Monitor Federal bill reference ✔ Climate / clean energy Multiple bills —  Advance research, development, demonstration  and deployment of carbon-free technologies to  help achieve a net carbon-neutral economy.   ✔ Cybersecurity Multiple bills""
""— Promote  information sharing between government  and industry and advance the development  and training of the cyber workforce for critical  infrastructure sectors.  ✔ Energy assistance Multiple bills — Provide  energy assistance through direct appropriations  (Low Income Home Energy Assistance  Program), indirect funding programs and  supplemental appropriations.  ✔ Energy efficiency Multiple bills — Prohibit  agencies from promulgating rules that could  eliminate products from the market""
""based on  the type of fuel the product uses. ♦ Gas leak detection and repair — Continue to  monitor and support the implementation  of reasonable leak detection and repair  requirements that do not hinder efforts to  continue to pursue comprehensive gas system  modernization. ✔ Infrastructure — Bipartisan law that includes a  wide variety of infrastructure programs  for electric transportation, grid resiliency,  transmission siting, hydrogen research,  cybersecurity and clean energy""
""technologies  to support the research, development,  demonstration and deployment of carbon-free  technologies to help achieve a carbon-free  economy.  ✔ Renewable energy tax incentives — Extend  and expand renewable energy tax incentives. Illinois legislative bills/resolutions ♦ House Bill 4118 — Prevents gas and electric  companies from shutting off a resident’s primary  source of heat or charging late fees for 75 days. ✖ House Bill 4268 — Mandates corporations  report all their emission""
""data to the Illinois  Secretary of State on an annual basis. ♦ House Bill 4374 — Provides that the Illinois  Commerce Commission, in any determination  of rates or charges that differs from any rates  or charges proposed by the utility, shall make  a separate finding of the expected job losses, if  any, that would occur due to the commission’s  finding.  ♦ House Bill 4471 — Removes the Jan. 1, 2025,  repealer date for the State Supplemental Low- Income Energy Assistance Fund. ✖ House Bill""
""5061/Senate Bill 2885 — Prohibits  Illinois utility companies from using ratepayer  money to fund various expenses including  campaign contributions, dues for memberships  in trade associations, and charitable donations.  ✖ House Bill 5063 — Requires gas stoves to bear  a warning message label.  ♦ House Bill 5244 — Requires all buildings to be  designed and constructed to provide natural gas  service and electric power. ♦ House Bill 5546 — Provides that owners or  operators of underground""
""utility facilities are  required to be members of JULIE Positive  Response System. ✖ House Bill 5835/Senate Bill 3935 — Creates  the Clean and Healthy Buildings Act. Requires  gas utilities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions  steadily, reaching zero emissions by 2050 by  setting a Clean Heat Standard for the state.  ♦ Senate Bill 771 — Expands and establishes new  wetland regulations and permitting under the  Illinois Department of Natural Resources.  ♦ Senate Bill 1842 — Makes several""
""changes to  energy assistance programs for low-income  utility customers. ♦ Senate Bill 3968 — Bans carbon storage at the  Mahomet Aquifer. Michigan legislative bills/resolutions ✖ House Bill 4464/4465 — Creates community  solar programs. ✖ House Bill 4832 — Provides the Department of  Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy with the  authority to regulate dams. ♦ House Bill 5216 — Requires the establishment of  performance-based rates and requires the study  of multiyear rate plans. ♦ House""
""Bill 5217 — Establishes low-income,  senior and disability rates. ♦ Senate Bill 353 — Expand definition of low- income customer to 250% of federal poverty  guidelines and expands energy assistance  programs. ♦ Senate Bill 366 — Increases gas safety violation  penalties to federal amounts. ♦ Senate Bill 504 — Prohibits long-term industrial  rates from being subject to securitization  charges. ♦ Senate Bill 571 — Requires prevailing wages on  certain solar and wind projects. ✖ Senate Bills""
""605-611 — Requires environmental  cleanups to residential standards and expands  liability coverage. ✖ Senate Bill 772 — Requires utilities to provide  rebates to customers who install rooftop solar. ✖ Senate Bill 773 — Requires Michigan Public  Service Commission to develop a program to  allow businesses and homeowners to aggregate  solar energy and receive compensation. ♦ Senate Bill 879 — Requires Michigan  Department of Health and Human Services to  report total amount of low-income""
""assistance  collected by each utility and the total amount  distributed to the geographic area of the utility. ♦ Senate Bill 880 — Requires electric utilities to  increase the per-meter charge for Low Income  Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP)  from $1 to $2. Minnesota legislative bills/resolutions ♦ House File 4574 — Modifies energy  conservation programs for natural gas utilities  and increases required energy savings goals. ♦ House File 4688 — Requires Minnesota Public  Utilities""
""Commission to establish a thermal  energy network working group to examine  potential opportunities for natural gas utilities to  deploy thermal energy networks. ✖ Senate File 4202 — Requires adoption of  international energy conservation codes for  building standards, as well as reduction in  annual net energy consumption. ✖ Senate File 4426 — Prohibits utilities from  recovering certain expenses such as advertising,  charitable contributions, memberships, and  certain expenses for executive""
""officers and  board members.  Wisconsin legislative bills/resolutions ✔ Assembly Bill 45/Senate Bill 49 — Restricts  local regulation of utility service based on the  type or source of energy. ♦ Assembly Bill 46/Senate Bill 47 — Requires  notice to political subdivisions and landowners  regarding proposed large solar energy facilities,  and establishes additional requirements for the  decision-making process. ✔ Assembly Bill 73 — Changes the phase-out of  utility aid payments for""
""decommissioned power  plants.  ♦ Assembly Bill 165/Senate Bill 151 — Grants  local governments the ability to impose  additional restrictions on wind energy systems  under certain conditions. ✔ Assembly Bill 245 — Modifies shared revenue  programs, addresses the retirement systems of  the city of Milwaukee and Milwaukee County,  and eliminates the personal property tax. ✖ Assembly Bill 258/Senate Bill 226 —  Authorizes the establishment of community solar  programs and grants rule-making""
""utility  regulation regarding electric vehicle charging  stations, rules for the installation and operation  of electric vehicle charging stations by state  agencies or local governmental units, and an  excise tax on electric vehicle charging. ✔ Assembly Bill 878/Senate Bill 812 — Increases  the maximum penalties for gas pipeline safety  violations. ✔ Senate Bill 531 — Prohibits and establishes a  penalty for caller identification spoofing. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY""
""REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  81 FTSE Russell — WEC Energy Group was again included in the FTSE4Good  Index Series, which is made up of companies that reflect strong  environmental, social and governance risk management practices. This  sustainability tool helps investors create investment funds and benchmark  their  2024 awards and recognition WPS was named the top-performing midsize utility in the  Midwest as part of PA Consulting’s 2024 ReliabilityOne  Awards,""
""reflecting strong electric reliability performance  and dedication to customer service. Accepting the 2024 ReliabilityOne Award are Paul Gogan, Mike Hooper, Dan  Friendshuh and Otto Marquardt Wisconsin Public Service was recognized by the  American Gas Association in 2024 for its  safety record — having the lowest incident rate in the  previous year for days away, restricted or transferred  in its benchmark category. Minnesota Energy Resources received a Silver  Award in the Minnesota Governor’s""
""its-kind pledge to use  unionized labor in the construction of renewable  energy projects. WEC Energy Group  received a Technology  Transfer Award from  EPRI in recognition  of our collaboration on  an innovative hydrogen  blending pilot project  at A.J. Mihm Generating  Station in Michigan. WEC Energy Group was again  included in the FTSE4Good  Index Series, which is  made up of companies that  reflect strong risk management  practices. This sustainability tool  helps investors create""
""investment  funds and benchmark their  performance. WEC Energy Group again received  the Vets Ready Employer  Initiative Award, achieving  Gold Level recognition. This  award honors Wisconsin  employers for demonstrating a  commitment to hiring veterans,  supporting their veteran  workforce and connecting with  the veteran community. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  82 Appendix Reconciliation of Reported EPS (GAAP) to""
""Adjusted EPS (Non-GAAP) 2015 2016 2017 2023 2024 Reported EPS – GAAP basis $2.34 $ 2.96 $ 3.79 $ 4.22 $ 4.83 Acquisition Costs $0.39 $ 0.01 – – – Integrys Earnings $(0.47) – – – – Impact of Additional Shares $0.47 – – – – Tax Benefit Related to Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 – – $ (0.65) – – Illinois Disallowance – – – $ 0.41 – QIP Disallowance – – – – $0.06 Adjusted EPS – Non-GAAP Basis* $2.73 $ 2.97 $ 3.14 $ 4.63 $ 4.88** * WEC Energy Group has provided adjusted earnings per share (non-GAAP""
""earnings per share) as a complement to, and not as an alternative  to, earnings per share presented in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted earnings per share exclude, as applicable, (1) a one-time reduction  in income tax expense related to a revaluation of our deferred taxes as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017; (2) costs related to the  acquisition of Integrys Energy Group; (3) the results of operations of Integrys and its subsidiaries; (4) the additional shares of WEC Energy  Group""
""and useful to investors to understand the company’s  operating performance. Management uses such measures internally to evaluate the company’s performance and manage its operations. ** 2024 adjusted earnings per share does not add due to rounding. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance  83 Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking information In this report, we make statements concerning our expectations,  beliefs,""
""“believes,” “could,” “estimates,” “expects,”  “forecasts,” “goals,” “guidance,” “intends,” “may,” “objectives,” “plans,”  “possible,” “potential,” “projects,” “seeks,” “should,” “targets,” “will,” or  variations of these terms.  Forward-looking statements include, among other things, statements  concerning management’s expectations and projections regarding  social, environmental and climate strategies, policies and goals;  completion of capital projects; sales and customer growth;""
""environmental and other regulations, including associated compliance  costs; legal proceedings; fuel costs; sources of electric energy supply;  coal and natural gas deliveries; remediation costs; climate-related  matters; capital resources; and other matters. Forward-looking  statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could  cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or  implied in the statements. These risks and uncertainties include those""
""described under “Risk Factors” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for  the year ended Dec. 31, 2024, and subsequent quarterly reports on  Form 10-Q and those identified below:  •         Factors affecting utility and non-utility energy infrastructure  operations such as catastrophic weather-related damage,  environmental incidents, unplanned facility outages and  repairs and maintenance, electric grid reliability, and electric  transmission or natural gas pipeline system constraints;  •""
""Factors affecting the demand for electricity and natural gas,  including political or regulatory developments; varying, adverse  or unusually severe weather conditions, including those caused  by climate change; changes in economic conditions, including  continued economic growth, customer growth and declines;  commodity prices; energy conservation efforts; and continued  adoption of distributed generation by customers or co-location  of generation near data centers;  •      The timing,""
""transmission or distribution system operation, the approval  process for new construction, reliability standards, pipeline  integrity and safety standards, allocation of energy assistance,  energy efficiency mandates, electrification initiatives and other  efforts to reduce the use of natural gas, and tax laws, including  those that affect our ability to use production tax credits and  investment tax credits, as well as changes in the interpretation  and/or enforcement of any laws or regulations""
""by regulatory  agencies;  •  Federal, state, and local legislative and regulatory changes  relating to the environment, including climate change and other  environmental regulations impacting generation facilities and  renewable energy standards, the enforcement of these laws  and regulations, changes in and uncertainty regarding the  interpretation of regulations or permit conditions by regulatory  agencies, including as a result of the new presidential  administration, and the recovery of""
""associated remediation and  compliance costs;  •     The ability to obtain and retain customers, including wholesale  customers, due to increased competition in our electric and  natural gas markets from retail choice and alternative electric  suppliers, and continued industry consolidation;  •      The timely completion of capital projects within budgets and  the ability to recover the related costs through rates;  •        The impact of changing expectations and demands of our  customers,""
""regulators, investors and other stakeholders, including  focus on environmental, social and governance concerns;  •  The risk of delays and shortages, and increased costs of  equipment, materials or other resources that are critical to  our business operations and corporate strategy, as a result  of changes to U.S. trade policy (including changes to tariffs  on imports, port fees and other trade policy tools) as well as  changes to foreign governments’ trade policies impacting  U.S. exports,""
""supply chain disruptions (including from rail  congestion), inflation and other factors;  •         The impact of public health crises, including epidemics and  pandemics, on our business functions, financial condition,  liquidity and results of operations;  •        Risks inherent in electric generation and distribution and  natural gas transportation, distribution and storage activities,  including leaks, accidental explosions, mechanical problems,  fires, discharges or releases of toxic or""
""hazardous substances  or gases, and risks related to the ability to obtain adequate  insurance to cover such events; •    Factors affecting the implementation of our carbon dioxide  emission and/or methane emission reduction goals, and  opportunities and actions related to those goals, including  related regulatory decisions; the cost of materials, supplies and  labor; technology advances; significant increases in demand;  the feasibility of competing generation projects; and our ability  to""
""execute our capital plan;  •     The financial and operational feasibility of taking more  aggressive action to further reduce greenhouse gas emissions  in order to limit future global temperature increases;  •       The risks associated with inflation and changing commodity  prices, including natural gas and electricity;  •   The availability and cost of sources of natural gas and other  fossil fuels, purchased power, materials needed to operate  environmental controls at our electric""
""generating facilities, or  water supply due to high demand, shortages, transportation  problems, nonperformance by electric energy or natural gas  suppliers under existing power purchase or natural gas supply  contracts, or other developments;  •        Any impacts on the global economy, including from sanctions,  and impacts on supply chains and fuel prices, generally, from  ongoing, escalating, or expanding regional or international  conflicts, including those involving Ukraine, Israel and""
""whom we have contractual arrangements, including  participants in the energy trading markets and fuel suppliers  and transporters;  •       The financial performance of American Transmission Co. LLC  and its corresponding contribution to our earnings;  •      The investment performance of our employee benefit plan  assets, as well as unanticipated changes in related actuarial  assumptions, which could impact future funding requirements;  •         Factors affecting the employee workforce,""
""or enhanced governmental or regulatory scrutiny  or regulations governing the use of artificial intelligence,  the ability to meet expectations or requirements relating  to adoption or implementation of artificial intelligence  technology, or other complications related to the use of artificial  intelligence; •         Risks related to our non-utility renewable energy facilities,  including unfavorable weather, changes in the financial  performance and/or creditworthiness of counterparties to""
""the offtake agreements, changes in demand based on lower  prices for alternative energy sources, pricing differentials  between the facilities’ point of interconnection and our  required delivery location, the ability to replace expiring  power purchase agreements under acceptable terms, rights  to property on which our projects are located but we do not  own, the availability of reliable interconnection and electricity  grids, the performance and quality of wind turbine and solar  panel""
""Commission or in  other publicly disseminated written documents.  Except as may be required by law, we expressly disclaim any  obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking  statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or  otherwise. WEC ENERGY GROUP | 2024 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our company Environmental Social Customers Governance""
