""2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  2024 Sustainability Report | 2 Table of Contents    Introduction  About Xcel Energy          3 Message from Our CEO          5 Sustainability Strategy       7 Reach Net Zero Responsibly   Clean Energy Vision      10 Carbon-Free Energy   18 Technology and Innovation    21  Environmental Stewardship   24 Value People  Workforce Safety       33  Employee Experience         36 Workforce Planning   40 Culture and Belonging        42   Strengthen Communities   Affordability""
""and Energy Savings          47 Reliability and Resiliency           51 Public Safety and Security   55 Community Impact     57 Operate with Integrity    Sustainability Oversight and Governance    62 Public Policy        66 Supply Chain Partnerships    70 Ethics and Compliance        73 Appendix  About this Report          76 Forward-Looking Statements   77  What You Can Do     78 Glossary     79 Governance   84        Position Statements and Policies      86  Compliance Activity         87 Data""
""Summary         88  2024 Sustainability Report | 3 About Xcel Energy Xcel Energy powers 1,600 communities with  safe, reliable, low-cost energy that’s increasingly  clean. In 2018, we became the first major U.S.  power company with a vision for providing  100% carbon-free electricity. Since then, we’ve  expanded on that commitment to become the  first in our industry with comprehensive goals  to reach net-zero emissions across electricity,  natural gas use in buildings and transportation. Xcel""
""Energy is a major U.S. electricity and natural  gas company based in Minneapolis, Minnesota.  Through four regulated operating companies  across eight Western and Midwestern states, we  offer a comprehensive portfolio of energy-related  products and services to millions of customers. Southwestern Public Service Co. Northern States Power Co.–Minnesota Northern States Power Co.–Wisconsin Public Service Co. of Colorado 3.9M  electric customers         111K  electric transmission lines       221K""
""electric distribution lines               2.2M  natural gas customers 2.1K  natural gas transmission lines 38K  natural gas distribution lines     2024 Sustainability Report | 4 2024 Impact Awards Vision  Mission  Values  Our Priorities 57% carbon emissions reduction (from 2005 levels) 52% carbon-free energy mix $7.6B in system upgrades $5.2B spent with local or small suppliers $5B customer savings from wind energy (since 2017)  $175M energy assistance $4.6M Xcel Energy Foundation grants 20""
""performance  2024 Sustainability Report | 5 Message from Our CEO Turn on any news channel or skim social media, and you’ll see that energy — and its  future — has become a dinner table conversation. But, through all the headlines and  noise, we have not lost sight of our core mission — to make energy work better for our  customers and to serve them with reliable, safe energy at the lowest possible cost. For more than 150 years, Xcel Energy has delivered on that mission for our customers.  And,""
""since we announced our bold, industry-leading vision to deliver 100% carbon- free electricity to customers by 2050, we have led our communities in transitioning   to cleaner energy in ways that will benefit them — and the environment — well into  the future.  Today, as we celebrate the 20-year anniversary of our Sustainability Report, I’d like   to take a moment to reflect on how far we’ve come:  • Twenty years ago, we connected our customers with $20 million in public   energy assistance. In""
""2024, that number reached a staggering $175 million   for 193,000 customers. • In 2005, we had nearly 1,100 megawatts of wind capacity on our system. Today,  our owned wind capacity has quadrupled — with enough to power more than   2.5 million homes — and accounting for one-third of our energy mix. • In 2005, our energy mix was 17% carbon-free — as of 2024, we had more than  doubled the clean energy on our system, adding up to a mix that is 52%   carbon-free.  Today, as our nation calls on the""
""energy industry to build the grid of the future, we are  prepared to meet this challenge while continuing to serve customers and advance the  economic growth and prosperity of the 1,600 cities and counties we serve.  2024 Sustainability Report | 6 In 2024 alone:  • Our employees went above and beyond to truly power our communities:  Combined with company and Xcel Energy Foundation matches, our financial  contributions added up to an impressive $14.5 million. Our team also   volunteered nearly""
""89,000 hours, helping to address the issues that matter   most to our communities. • On active storm days, we restored 92% of customers’ power within 24 hours,  continuing to outperform the industry standard of 80%.  • When back-to-back hurricanes Helene and Milton devastated portions of the  southeastern United States last fall, more than 100 Xcel Energy employees  answered the call for mutual assistance, helping to restore power and bring   hope to impacted communities. • We completed the""
""first phase of our Sherco Solar project in Minnesota. Once the  project is fully online, Sherco Solar’s combined capacity of 710 megawatts will  make it one of the largest solar facilities in the country, providing enough clean  energy to power 150,000 homes across the Upper Midwest. • We converted Harrington Generating Station northeast of Amarillo, Texas, to  natural gas. The conversion of all three Harrington units will be complete in   the summer of 2025.   Delivering these operational""
""results took the investments of time and resources by  our teams, but we never lost sight of ensuring that our customers’ bills remain as  low as possible. Our residential electric bills fall 28% below the national average and  natural gas bills 12% below the national average — among the lowest in the country. The coming years offer a period of unprecedented growth for Xcel Energy, and we  remain steadfast in achieving our vision of being the trusted and preferred provider   of energy — to truly""
""make energy work better for our customers.  Sincerely,   Bob Frenzel Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer  Sustainability Strategy Sustainability Frameworks Our sustainability strategy focuses on four areas where we can make the largest economic,  environmental and social impact while providing reliable, safe, clean energy and keeping  bills as low as possible. Xcel Energy operates transparently and strives for continuous improvement. We use the  following recognized frameworks to""
""report sustainability topics, risks and opportunities to our  stakeholders. Learn more at xcelenergy.com/sustainability and investors.xcelenergy.com. Global Reporting Initiative  Sustainability Accounting  Standards Board Sustainable   Development Goals Safe Reliable Aﬀordable Clean Strengthen Communities Operate  with Integrity Reach Net Zero  Responsibly Value  People Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity""
""|      Appendix  2024 Sustainability Report | 8 Sustainability is core to  Xcel Energy’s business. We must balance  environmental responsibility with economic  prosperity and community vitality. That  means placing our customers at the center  of everything we do as we advance toward a  cleaner, stronger and smarter energy future. Jeff Lyng, vice president, External Affairs and Policy and chief sustainability officer Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen""
""Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix 2050 2030 2035 Net-Zero Energy Provider by 2050 Goals that cover electricity, natural gas service and transportation 80%  lower electric  carbon emissions  1.5M  EVs enabled by  charging infrastructure 20% of fleet converted  to EVs  ZERO-CARBON  electric emissions NET-ZERO  gas service ELECTRIFICATION- FIRST  customer options NET-ZERO  METHANE gas service ZERO-CARBON  fuel within 1 mile GHG CO2  2024 Sustainability Report | 9""
""REACH  NET ZERO  RESPONSIBLY  Clean Energy Vision Carbon-Free Energy  Technology and Innovation Environmental Stewardship Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix  2024 Sustainability Report | 10 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Clean Energy Vision   Xcel Energy is committed to becoming""
""a   net-zero energy provider by 2050 while keeping  service reliable and safe and customer bills as  low as possible. In 2018, we became the first  energy company in the nation to establish  a vision for 100% carbon-free electricity by  2050. We were also the first energy company  to expand our vision to include net-zero  natural gas and carbon-free transportation  commitments — covering three sectors that  represent the most significant ways   our customers use energy and all three  emissions""
""scopes.   2024 Sustainability Report | 11 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix 2050 2030 2035 Net-Zero Energy Provider by 2050 Goals that cover electricity, natural gas service and transportation 80%  lower electric  carbon emissions  1.5M  EVs enabled by  charging infrastructure 20% of fleet converted  to EVs  ZERO-CARBON  electric emissions NET-ZERO  gas service ELECTRIFICATION- FIRST""
""customer options NET-ZERO  METHANE gas service ZERO-CARBON  fuel within 1 mile GHG CO2 Clean Energy Vision  Six years since establishing our industry-leading clean energy vision,  we have made significant progress toward removing carbon emissions  from our electric generation and achieving net-zero natural gas service  and clean transportation.  When our approved plans are fully implemented, we will reduce  carbon emissions 80% by 2030 on the way to delivering 100% carbon- free electricity by""
""2050. Additionally, our goal is to achieve net-zero  methane emissions on our gas distribution system by 2030 while  promoting electrification-first for new customer construction and  investing in our system to allow for greater electric adoption.  By 2035, we aim to enable the charging infrastructure for 1.5 million  electric vehicles (EVs) across the areas we serve and convert 20%  of our combined fleet to fully electric, plug-in hybrid or other zero- emissions alternative vehicles.   What is""
""Electrification-First?  Electrification-first is a new approach to gas system  planning that evaluates natural gas alternatives and  engages customers in evaluating voluntary electric  alternatives early in their planning process. We will  continue to provide reliable, safe and low-cost natural  gas service throughout the transition.   Carbon-Free Electricity  Xcel Energy and our industry are at the forefront of our nation’s clean  energy transition. Not only are we reducing greenhouse gas""
""emissions  from the energy we deliver, but we also offer gas service for customers  who request it. At the same time, we continue to drive emissions  reductions in other sectors of the economy, like transportation.   We’re transitioning to cleaner sources of energy at a pace and scale  designed to manage costs and other potential impacts, making sure  we maintain safety and reliability while keeping customer bills as low  as possible. Our electric vision includes all three scopes of greenhouse""
""gas emissions. Through 2024, we reduced carbon emissions from  electricity by 57% from 2005 levels — a further 3% decrease from 2023  — as we powered our local economies and communities. Our energy  mix is also more than 50% carbon-free.  2024 Energy Mix – Xcel Energy Coal     15% Natural Gas  33% Nuclear    10% Wind    33% Solar    5% Other  Renewable  4% Other     <1% 52%  carbon free 2005 2024 Million Tons Carbon Dioxide Emissions 0 20 40 60 80 100 86.2 37.1 57% REDUCTION 2024 Energy Mix –""
""Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota, Wisconsin, Michigan  Coal     10% Natural Gas  26% Nuclear    23% Wind    29% Solar    4% Other  Renewable  7% Other     1% 64%  carbon free 2005 2024 Million Tons Carbon Dioxide Emissions 0 20 40 60 80 100 28.1 10.9 61% REDUCTION  2024 Sustainability Report | 12 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix  “Other Renewable” includes hydro and biomass.""
""“Other” may include nonrenewable, carbon-free energy, such as nuclear energy from  power purchase agreements (PPAs). Carbon dioxide emissions are from electricity delivered to customers in 2024 and are  considered preliminary until third-party verified in early 2026. Energy mix includes  electricity produced at Xcel Energy plants, purchased from others and supplied to  customers through Xcel Energy renewable energy choice programs. Resource Plans  Our 2030 electricity goal is backed by""
""resource plans approved by our  state regulatory commissions. These plans demonstrate a pathway   to reliably and affordably reduce carbon emissions 80% by 2030   with today’s technologies, including wind and solar power, existing  carbon-free nuclear, natural gas and battery storage. When fully  implemented, our plans would roughly double renewable capacity  across our territories by 2030 while leveraging federal tax credits to  enhance affordability and add new natural gas generation needed""
""for reliability assurance. Our current plans include: Colorado Clean Energy Plan: Phase II (approved in 2024) adds  approximately 1,840 megawatts of wind, 1,720 megawatts of solar,  1,850 megawatts of storage and 670 megawatts of natural gas  generation for reliability, making it the largest clean energy portfolio  in state history, building on Phase I’s 85% carbon reduction and coal  phase-out goals by 2030. As a next step, we filed our Just Transition  Solicitation with the Colorado Public""
""Utilities Commission (PUC).    2024 Energy Mix – Colorado Coal     21% Natural Gas  34% Wind    35% Solar    9% Other  Renewable  1% Other     <1% 45%  carbon free 2005 2024 Million Tons Carbon Dioxide Emissions 0 20 40 60 80 100 33.9 14.5 57% REDUCTION 2024 Energy Mix – Texas, New Mexico Coal     15% Natural Gas  46% Wind    37% Solar    2% Other     <1% 39%  carbon free 2005 2024 Million Tons Carbon Dioxide Emissions 0 20 40 60 80 100 24.2 11.7 52% REDUCTION Towner Wind Project Moving Forward""
""address  potential impacts to cultural resources and SCMNHS’s viewshed from the  proposed Towner Wind Project, a 2021 ERP project, located near SCMNHS. Through collaborative discussions, we and the Northern Cheyenne Tribe  successfully negotiated an agreement that enables the Towner Wind  Project to proceed while incorporating measures to protect the SCMNHS  viewshed and preserve cultural resources with respect to the 2021 ERP  projects. Additionally, it fosters educational and workforce""
""development  opportunities for Tribal members, reinforcing a shared commitment to  responsible development and cultural preservation.    2024 Sustainability Report | 13 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Just Transition Solicitation Our 2024 Just Transition Solicitation kicked off a multiyear, two-phased  process to identify new power generation to replace retiring coal units in  Hayden""
""and Pueblo, Colorado, and meet customers’ forecasted energy  needs while supporting our workforce and communities. “For nearly 60 years, the dedicated employees at Hayden Station and  Comanche Generation Station have provided reliable and safe service  for our Colorado customers and communities. We are committed to  transitioning our employees into new roles as needed, something we’ve  done successfully at other Xcel Energy plants.  — Robert Kenney, president, Xcel Energy – Colorado Southwest""
""Energy Plans: The $770 million investment includes  extending the life of two natural gas-fueled units, building three solar  generating facilities and adding battery storage. At the end of 2024, we  converted the 1,018-megawatt Harrington Generating Station from coal  to natural gas; the conversion will be fully complete in the summer   of 2025.  Upper Midwest Energy Plans: The Minnesota PUC approved major  investments in 3,430 megawatts of wind, 550 megawatts of solar power  and 600 megawatts""
""of battery energy storage by 2030, along with a  natural gas-fired power plant for reliability, and extending the lives of  our two carbon-free nuclear plants through the early 2050s. The plan  prioritizes affordability for customers, with an estimated average   annual increase in electric rates of less than 1%.   Net-Zero Natural Gas  Our vision is to operate the cleanest gas distribution business possible  and deliver net-zero gas service by 2050. We are committed to  continuously operating a""
""gas system that is safe, reliable, affordable   and increasingly clean to benefit our customers.  By 2030, we aim to achieve net-zero methane emissions on our gas  distribution system by following a Find It, Fix It approach and  deploying more Advanced Mobile Leak Detection tools. An additional  component of our 2030 goal is an electrification-first approach to help  reduce emissions for customers using natural gas, with a focus on new  construction. To address customer emissions, we are""
""advancing an  electrification-first approach by 2030 goal, which focuses on providing  customers, developers and builders — particularly for new construction  — with electrification options early. We will strategically optimize system  investments to align with electric adoption.   Heating technology continues to advance, so we continue to pursue a  portfolio of voluntary options to help our customers reduce emissions.    We’ll work with stakeholders on the best ways to deploy our approach""
""while maintaining reliable heating service and controlling customer  costs. For example, we are piloting clean fuels such as renewable   natural gas and hydrogen.   Colorado Clean Heat Plan  Total available funding:   $441M ~725K tons in emission reductions Minnesota NGIA Plan Total available funding:   $55M ~54K tons of emissions avoided   Our Clean Heat Plan, a first-of-its-kind roadmap, was  submitted to the Colorado PUC in August 2023. The PUC- approved plan includes $441 million toward""
""emissions  reduction efforts with a focus on beneficial electrification  efforts. We will balance achieving emissions reductions  in the natural gas system with customer choice and costs  throughout implementation.  The Minnesota PUC approved our $55 million, five-year  Natural Gas Innovation Act (NGIA) Plan in February 2025,  allowing us to continue leading the clean energy transition  with a portfolio of solutions for reducing emissions from  the natural gas system, with the potential to scale""
""up as  technologies mature.    Natural gas is a key   part of our energy mix  as we drive toward our  net-zero vision. *Emissions reductions are based on approved funding and are dependent on   customer adoption and project implementation. Clean Heat Plan reductions  are projected through 2030; NGIA's are projected through 2029.  2024 Sustainability Report | 14 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |""
""Appendix Fully Electric Mini-Excavator Pilot  In 2024, Xcel Energy was one of the first utilities to launch an electric construction equipment pilot across four distribution  and gas operations crews in Colorado and Minnesota. The goal is to broaden workforce exposure to electrified variations of  the equipment we use, provide guidance to equipment manufacturers on product improvement and inspire confidence and  readiness across teams as we seek to reduce the carbon footprint of our construction""
""activities.   2024 Sustainability Report | 15 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Electrification and natural gas work together and are  both important to meeting our customers’ needs. In  January 2025, we launched new energy efficiency,  beneficial electrification and clean heat customer  programs in Colorado, which will electrify new homes  through market transformation and home""
""efficiency  offerings.    Electrification   Electrification is an important piece of our clean energy strategy, and  we are carefully implementing it to facilitate and encourage voluntary  customer adoption of electric technologies. As we build the energy  system of the future, we’re prioritizing electric solutions for new  energy needs, offering advanced planning help and aligning our gas  investments with electric adoption. We’re also analyzing non-pipeline  alternatives (NPA) investments or""
""activities that defer, reduce or  eliminate the need to construct or upgrade components of a natural  gas system. In 2024, we filed one of the largest NPA proposals in the  country with our Mountain Energy Project, a hybrid solution to serve  customers in the Colorado mountains.   Electrification and natural gas work together and are both important  to meeting our customers’ needs. In January 2025, we launched new  energy efficiency, beneficial electrification and clean heat customer  programs""
""in Colorado, which will electrify new homes through market  transformation and home efficiency offerings. The programs, which  are designed to meet shifting customer preferences and have seen  strong demand, will advance adoption of these technologies during  the early stages of market transformation and promote their use   in homes.  We partnered with Lennar Homes and Dandelion Energy to bring  geothermal heat pumps to more than 1,500 new Colorado homes  — the most significant residential""
""deployment in U.S. history. Over  the next two years, Lennar will integrate Dandelion's geothermal  heat pump systems, and with the help of our rebates, many of the  new homes will be priced no higher than they would have been with  conventional gas furnaces and air conditioners. This project is an  example of how our Clean Heat Plan and electrification strategy are  boosting local economies, advancing our clean energy goals and  keeping customer bills low.  Climate Science  Our goals are""
""grounded in climate science. An Intergovernmental  Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) lead author and climate modeling  team assessed how both our carbon-free electric and net-zero natural  gas goals align with global temperature targets. Using the latest IPCC  emission scenarios, they analyzed scenarios that are likely to achieve  the current goal of the Paris Agreement to limit global temperature  increases to well below 2°C and the aspiration of 1.5°C.   Xcel Energy’s carbon emissions trajectory""
""for the electricity  provided to customers aligns with science-based scenarios likely  to limit global warming to 1.5° C.    Xcel Energy’s net-zero vision for natural gas aligns with scenarios  likely to limit global warming to 1.5°C.    Based on this analysis, our reduction targets are consistent with —  even on the low end of — the electric sector reductions and natural gas  use in buildings in scenarios that achieve the international 1.5°C goal.  This study demonstrates that natural gas usage""
""in buildings continues,  even in scenarios that achieve the global temperature requirements of  the Paris Agreement. Learn more in this report.    Clean Transportation   By enabling a zero-carbon transportation future, Xcel Energy’s  clean energy can also help customers save billions of dollars in fuel  costs and deliver cleaner air for everyone. Our goal is to enable the  charging infrastructure for 1.5 million EVs by 2035 and provide zero- carbon energy for vehicles by 2050 in the states we""
""serve. Under our  clean energy plans, an EV powered with Xcel Energy electricity has  approximately 67.5% lower carbon emissions than a conventional  gasoline-powered vehicle. We are also working to convert 20% of our combined vehicle fleet to  electric, plug-in hybrid or other zero-emissions alternatives where these  technologies match our operational needs by 2035 and operate a zero- carbon fleet by 2050. We have already made incredible progress, having  electrified nearly 100% of sedans and""
""13% of our overall light-duty fleet.   In scenarios that limit warming to 1.5°C,  greenhouse gas emissions from natural  gas use in buildings are reduced 0% to  30% by 2030 and 55% to 85% in 2050. Percent Carbon Emissions Reduction from Buildings 0% 20% -20% -40% -60% -80% -100% 2035 2040 2045 2050 2020 2025 2030 Xcel Energy Projected Emissions Trajectory (Includes Supply, Delivery and Customers) U.S. Forecasts Net-Zero  Emissions Net-Zero  Methane 2020 2024   57%  Reduction 2030   80%  Goal""
""2050   100% Carbon-free  -20% 0% -40% -60% -80% -100% Baseline Year 2005 2030 2040 2050 2024 2010 Xcel Energy Carbon Trajectory Range of Scenarios       2024 Sustainability Report | 16 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Kwik Trip and Xcel Energy   Partner on EV Chargers In late 2024, Kwik Trip, one of the country's leading convenience stores,  partnered with Xcel Energy to install 16""
""direct current fast chargers   at four of its stores in northwestern Wisconsin. These chargers provide  at least 150 kilowatts of power per dispenser when four vehicles are  plugged in, or up to 400 kilowatts of power for a single vehicle.  “We were thrilled to work with Xcel Energy on this innovative  partnership,” said Adam Schwartz, Kwik Trip’s EV program manager. “At  Kwik Trip, we developed our Kwik Charge™ program to provide a reliable,  guest-focused experience that our customers have""
""come to expect.  By working closely with Xcel Energy, we were able to efficiently bring  this program to northwestern Wisconsin and continue to offer all the  wonderful amenities that drivers want.”  This partnership allows drivers of almost any EV to charge at a safe, clean  and staffed location 24/7.  We have clean transportation programs for customers in four states  (Colorado, Minnesota, New Mexico and Wisconsin). Since 2015, we  have been providing EV solutions, continually enhancing our""
""offerings  each year while addressing common adoption barriers through  education, rebates and incentives.   We want everyone in the communities we serve to enjoy the benefits  of clean transportation, whether they own an EV, use public transit  or benefit from improved air quality. For example, to support new  electric school buses in the Mondovi School District in Wisconsin,  Xcel Energy secured additional credits and rebates for charging  infrastructure and reduced the schools’ investment to""
""just   $13,000, a critical savings for rural school districts.  Greenhouse Gas Measurement,   Tracking and Reporting  We publicly report greenhouse gas emissions to track progress  toward our goals for electricity and natural gas and annually verify  and publicly disclose greenhouse gas emissions through The  Climate Registry (TCR) for our electric and owned natural gas system  emissions. Our reporting is based on TCR's General Reporting Protocol  and Electric Power Sector Protocol, which aligns""
""with World Resources  Institute and ISO 14000 series standards. In 2007, we joined TCR  as a founding member to help establish a consistent standard for  calculation, third-party verification and reporting, and have since  verified our reporting following TCR's standards back to 2005. We are  the only energy provider with consecutively verified data back to 2005,  a baseline commonly used by standards bodies.  We report progress toward our carbon reduction goals based on  carbon dioxide""
""emissions associated with the electricity we deliver  to customers. When we have more electricity than we need, we sell  into wholesale markets. Because the energy from those sales does  not serve our customers, we exclude those carbon emissions from our  reporting. If the purchasers of that energy follow accepted protocols,  they will include those emissions in their reporting. We are working  to expand our greenhouse gas reporting to accurately track progress  in meeting our net-zero vision""
""for the natural gas business, which  includes methane from the delivery of natural gas and carbon   dioxide from customer use.   2024 Sustainability Report | 17 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix To convert metric tons to short tons, multiply by 1.1023.    *Our vision to become a net-zero energy provider includes the  energy consumed in our owned and operated buildings.   **Line losses""
""associated with purchased power are  approximated in scope 2 per TCR guidance but also inherently  included in scope 3 purchase power emissions. We purchase  additional power to cover losses.  2024 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reporting  Scope 1, 2 and 3 Emissions (CO2e) Source of Emissions  Million Metric Tons  Emissions Included in Our Goals  Scope 1  Xcel Energy owned electric generation serving customers  28.16  28.16  Xcel Energy owned market electricity sales not serving customers  3.92 ­——""
""Natural gas system operations  0.38  0.38  Fleet vehicles  0.11  0.11  Sulfur hexafluoride from electric equipment  0.08  ­—— Other (includes building natural gas use)*  <0.01  ­—— Total Scope 1  32.66 28.65  Scope 2 Million Metric Tons  Included in Our Goals Building electricity use*  < 0.02 < 0.02  Line loss from purchased electricity**  0.75  0.75  Total Scope 2  0.76 0.76 Scope 3 Million Metric Tons  Included in Our Goals Purchased electricity serving customers  4.93 4.93 Purchased""
""electricity not serving customers  0.73  —— Transportation of fuel for producing electricity  0.15  —— Customer emissions from natural gas use (estimated)  14.08 15.34  Supplier emissions from natural gas supply for electric generation and distribution (estimated)  2.19  —— Business travel  <0.01  —— Employee commuting  <0.01  —— Total Scope 3  22.10 19.01  2024 Sustainability Report | 18 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate""
""with Integrity      |      Appendix Carbon-Free Energy  Our operating footprint is strategically located in regions with strong wind and sunshine, which helps  us generate more renewable energy from our wind and solar farms and provide lower electricity costs  to our customers. In addition to wind and solar, our carbon-free energy portfolio includes nuclear,  hydroelectric and storage. As we continue to invest in our own infrastructure, we are exploring new  technologies that advance the clean""
""energy transition and boost local economies.   Carbon-free resources produced  52% of our customers' energy   in 2024.  2024 Sustainability Report | 19 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Wind  As a national leader in wind power since 2005, wind plays a vital role  on our path to reduce carbon emissions. Since we announced the  nation’s largest multistate wind investment in 2017, our Steel""
""for Fuel  strategy, we’ve added a significant amount of wind energy to our  system, becoming one of the nation's first energy providers to reach  10,000 megawatts of wind power on our system in early 2021. Our  wind capacity now exceeds 11,000 megawatts, including nearly 4,500  megawatts of owned wind from 21 wind farms. In 2024, wind accounted  for one-third of our energy mix.  Building on this momentum, we have a robust pipeline of wind projects,  including 350 megawatts in the Upper Midwest""
""by 2025, approximately  1,550 megawatts of new owned wind capacity in Colorado and 300  megawatts of PPAs between 2026 and 2028. PUCs play a crucial role  in determining wind ownership levels and overseeing wind energy  projects. For example, the Minnesota PUC oversees permits for wind  energy projects that are 5 megawatts or larger.  Solar  Solar energy is a key component of our diversified portfolio. We're expanding  our solar footprint, with significant investments aimed at delivering safe,""
""reliable, low-cost and increasingly clean power to our customers.  In 2024, we completed Phase 1 of our first owned solar farm — Sherco  Solar in Minnesota. Once Phases 2 and 3 are completed in 2025 and  2026, Sherco Solar’s combined capacity of 710 megawatts will be   one of the largest solar facilities in the country and will provide   enough clean energy to power 150,000 homes.    Sherco Solar   710 megawatts of capacity $1.1B clean energy infrastructure investments $480M in federal tax""
""credits $350M in local economic benefits 400 construction jobs  Adding to our current solar capacity, our solar PPAs (including  distributed generation and utility scale resources) already contribute  nearly 4,600 megawatts of combined capacity. We have approximately  2,700 megawatts of owned and PPA solar under development.  In our Upper Midwest system, we are adding approximately 500  megawatts of solar at the Sherco site in 2025 and 2026, alongside   105 megawatts of PPAs throughout 2025.  In""
""Colorado, we anticipate adding approximately 1,700 megawatts of  combined owned and PPA solar between 2025 and 2028 and in our  Southwest region, approximately 450 megawatts of solar and storage  between 2026 and 2027.   Colorado’s Power Pathway In July 2024, Xcel Energy broke ground on Segment 1 of the Colorado’s  Power Pathway project. This phase of construction follows the launch  of Segments 2 and 3 in 2023 and will provide high voltage “backbone”  transmission to connect more than 5,000""
""megawatts of new renewable  energy produced in eastern Colorado. Approved by the Colorado PUC  in June 2022, this $1.7 billion investment will create jobs, provide  lease payments to landowners and benefit local communities through  property taxes associated with new energy infrastructure. Construction  on Segments 2 and 3 will be complete in 2025 with Segments 1 and 4  concluding in 2026 and Segment 5 in 2027. See how we are  harnessing the power  of the sun.  2024 Sustainability Report | 20""
""Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Hydroelectric  Hydroelectric power has been a stable and reliable component of our  energy portfolio, providing a consistent source of renewable energy for  decades. We operate 26 hydroelectric plants — six in Colorado, one in  Minnesota and 19 in Wisconsin. These plants, which operate   on waterways including the Mississippi River, powered more than""
""322,200 homes in 2024. While our wind and solar investments are rapidly expanding,  hydroelectric power continues to contribute to our diversified   energy mix, providing essential baseload power and grid stability.  Nuclear  As the largest 24/7 carbon-free energy source we have online today,  nuclear is an integral part of our energy mix as we advance toward a  reliable and cost-effective clean energy transition. When the wind isn’t  blowing and the sun isn’t shining, nuclear energy provides""
""around-the- clock power, bringing immense value to our customers. It accounts for  10% of our energy mix companywide and 23% in our Upper Midwest  service area.   Our two nuclear power plants, Monticello and Prairie Island, have  been delivering reliable energy since the 1970s, generating nearly  a quarter of the electricity used by customers across our five-state  Upper Midwest system without producing any carbon emissions and  helping us avoid millions of tons of greenhouse gas emissions. In""
""2024,  these plants provided approximately 1,700 megawatts of net summer  dependable capacity that safely, reliably and affordably generated  carbon-free electricity. Monticello License Extended On Dec. 30, 2024, we received federal approval from the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to extend operations of our Monticello plant an  additional 20 years, through 2050, provided the plant’s extended operation is also approved by state regulators. We have already received approval  from the""
""Minnesota PUC to extend operations through 2040 and will return to the PUC to seek approval for the additional 10 years. In addition to  generating electricity for half a million homes, the plant is Monticello’s largest employer and local taxpayer.  We are seeking approval from the Minnesota PUC to extend the operating life of our other nuclear plant, Prairie Island. We have received stakeholder  support and plan to file a subsequent license renewal application with the NRC in late 2026.  2024""
""Sustainability Report | 21 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Technology and Innovation  To achieve a carbon-free energy future, we must identify and implement new technologies capable of  delivering 24/7 carbon-free dispatchable generation. Technologies such as advanced nuclear, long duration  energy storage, advanced heat pumps, hydrogen and geothermal are crucial to this effort. We are""
""leveraging  partnerships, sharing resources and collaborating with stakeholders to advance these innovative solutions  while prioritizing costs. By integrating cutting-edge solutions with existing technologies, we are strategically  evolving our energy systems. This approach benefits our communities and customers, and ensures we  continue to deliver safe, reliable, low-cost and increasingly clean energy solutions today   and into the future.   2024 Sustainability Report | 22 Reach Net Zero""
""Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Partnerships and Projects  It takes the right resources to make innovation possible, especially  since, as a regulated energy provider, our ability to invest in research,  development and emerging technology deployment can be limited. We  are proactively seeking out the right private, federal and state partners  along with innovative public policies to help us derisk""
""new technologies.  As of early February 2025, we have received Department of Energy (DOE)  award notices (subject to ongoing negotiations) and state funding of up  to $464.6 million allocated across Xcel Energy’s service territories. Key Partners   Our partnerships in venture capital such as Energy Impact Partners  (EIP), the Electric Power Research Institute's Incubatenergy Labs and  other programs give us the visibility and opportunity to demonstrate  leading-edge technology and concepts that""
""support our strategic  priorities. We also seek these funds for the benefit of our customers.  EIP invests in innovative start-ups and early-stage companies that drive  change and accelerate the carbon-free energy transition. EIP created  two targeted funds, Elevate Future and Frontier Deep Carbonization.  Elevate Future mirrors our commitment to empower traditionally  underrepresented individuals and broaden clean energy enterprises.  The Frontier Deep Decarbonization fund aims to invest in""
""companies  at the forefront of deep decarbonization innovation through energy  production and emissions reduction. We also have investments in  Energize Capital and Buoyant Ventures. Advanced Nuclear  In 2024, we made progress on advancing nuclear innovation and  supportive public policy. We formed an internal working group  evaluating the current status of new advanced nuclear technology,  its role in our system and pathways to accelerate deployment safely.  We leveraged EIP's support and""
""insights on technology readiness and  support needed, and we engaged in a feasibility study in North Dakota.  See the Public Policy section to learn more.  Long Duration Energy Storage  In 2024, we committed to a partnership with Rondo Energy, a thermal  energy storage system that helps decarbonize industrial heat processes.  Xcel Energy and Rondo are developing a thermal heat battery pilot  and will bring a proposal to the Minnesota PUC. We also continue  work on the Multiday Iron Air Long""
""Duration Energy Storage project  with Form Energy, deploying two 10-megawatt, 100-hour batteries  at retiring coal plants in Becker, Minnesota, and Pueblo, Colorado.  The Form Energy battery project will maintain reliable generation,  demonstrate safe, multiday (100-hour) long duration energy storage and  accelerate national deployment through partnerships, technology and  scale. In addition, we have received a grant award commitment from  Breakthrough Energy Catalyst of $20 million to support""
""these   Form Energy projects. Hydrogen  As part of our NGIA Plan in Minnesota, we are moving forward with a  feasibility analysis as the first step of our approved clean hydrogen  project with a 5-megawatt electrolyzer that would use renewable energy  from solar or wind facilities to produce clean hydrogen. In addition,  our Clean Hydrogen Production pilot will show how hydrogen can  be produced using carbon-free energy at the Prairie Island Nuclear  Plant. The DOE awarded us and our partners,""
""Bloom Energy and Idaho  National Laboratory, approximately $11 million for the $13.8 million  project, which will use the plant’s electricity and steam to produce  hydrogen from water. Xcel Energy is a key team member in the DOE- awarded Heartland Hydrogen Hub.  Heating Innovation  Xcel Energy operates in heating and cooling climates, and this diversity  provides ideal conditions to demonstrate how heat pump technology  performs in extreme conditions in our customers’ homes.  In 2024, we""
""completed a siting study for potential community ground source projects and considered 29 project areas in Colorado so  they could be ranked against one another. The results of that analysis  resulted in a short list of five projects we filed with the Colorado PUC.  Following the commission’s approval, we are moving forward with two  projects for detailed design and customer engagement. A Hybrid Approach to   Natural Gas System Planning ​ Our Mountain Energy Project in Colorado, the longest gas""
""system in  the nation, identifies solutions for safe, clean, reliable and low-cost  energy service for customers and other utilities served by our Eastern  Mountain Gas System. It will help meet the state's clean energy goals  and supports our vision to deliver net-zero natural gas service by 2050.  As our largest NPA portfolio to date, the project will provide valuable  insight into reducing natural gas use and emissions while ensuring  reliability, safety and comfort for customers. By pairing""
""NPAs with new  modular liquid natural gas and compressed natural gas equipment,  the Mountain Energy Project will be able to provide backup energy  service during times of increased demand.  “Xcel Energy's Mountain Energy Project shows the promise of  deploying non-pipeline alternatives at scale, which will help customers  reduce gas demand, save on bills and cut emissions.  — Mike Henchen, principal at RMI  2024 Sustainability Report | 23 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People""
""|      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Virtual Power Plants In 2024, the DOE’s Office of Clean Energy Demonstrations selected Xcel Energy to  receive up to $12.7 million in grant funding to support the development of a virtual  power plant (VPP) demonstration project in Boulder, Colorado. VPPs are systems of  diverse distributed energy resources, like solar panels, batteries and EVs. Through  this collaboration with the City of Boulder, the""
""University of Colorado Boulder  and National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), we hope to create a scalable  solution, providing operational flexibility to enable the power system to respond  efficiently to changes in supply and demand that could be replicated across   Xcel Energy territories and the U.S. The project could also help Boulder reach   its 100% renewable electricity goals by 2030.   “Community members and businesses in Boulder have long been committed to  showcasing the benefits""
""of distributed solar and batteries as well as electric vehicle  charging, programmable thermostats and cogeneration, said the City of Boulder.  [The virtual power plant project] is an opportunity to take the next step in capturing  additional benefits from our community’s investments in these resources.” Largest* Xcel Energy Department of Energy Awards   Award Title   Awarded  Funding   Heartland Hydrogen Hub   $150M  Joint Targeted Interconnection Queue   $114M   Wildfire and Extreme Weather""
""Mitigation   $100M   Form Energy 100-hour Battery   $70M   Boulder Virtual Power Plant   $12.7M   Nuclear Hydrogen Pilot Award   $10.6M   Cabin Creek Hydroelectric Efficiency Upgrades   $5M   *Additional five <$1 million awards received, representing $2.2 million in additional grant funds    2024 Sustainability Report | 24 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Environmental  Stewardship""
""Environmental stewardship is core to our work  and values. While delivering reliable, low-cost  electricity and natural gas, we strive to preserve the  environment and protect the health and safety of  our customers. Throughout our operations, we are  focused on managing and minimizing environmental  impacts, ensuring compliance with regulations and  standards, and preserving natural resources. We  are committed to transparency and accountability,  building trust and collaborating with""
""communities   to achieve our environmental goals.  2024 Sustainability Report | 25 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Environmental Reductions (2005-2024)  57%  Carbon Dioxide 67%  Coal Ash 89%  Lead 88%  Sulfur Dioxide  34%  Water* 84%  Particulate Matter 86%  Nitrogen Oxides 94%  Mercury  *Reductions in water consumption are from owned and purchased electricity that serves  our""
""customers. All other reductions are from owned generating plants.  Environmental Management System Our environmental management system (EMS) promotes  excellence, continuous improvement and compliance with  applicable requirements. We've designed our EMS to align  with ISO 14001's nine elements: policies, responsibilities,  environmental interaction, impacts, compliance, objectives  and targets, monitoring and measurement, performance  review and continuous improvement. Our system applies  to""
""all business operations that have environmental  considerations and provides oversight, risk analysis,  policies and procedures, monitoring, follow-up for  compliance gaps, and training and communication.   Biodiversity and Conservation    We partner with local, state and federal agencies and advisory groups  to support conservation efforts, preserve habitats and minimize  risks and impacts to wildlife. From restoring lands and developing  pollinator habitats to retrofitting equipment to protect""
""avian species,  we are committed to protecting biodiversity and natural resources  throughout our service footprint. Further proof of our commitment   is that biodiversity and land use was a key topic in our 2022   materiality assessment.   Minimizing Impacts  Potential impacts vary depending on the facility type and project  phases. Fossil fuel-fired generating facilities can have air emissions,  water quality and waste-related impacts while a renewable energy  facility like a wind farm""
""generally has minimal climate and other  environmental impacts but can disrupt wildlife habitats.  We manage siting, construction and operations to limit their impact  on habitats and wildlife. When removing the hydroelectric dam at  Fooses Reservoir on the South Arkansas River in 2024, for example,  we coordinated with Colorado Parks and Wildlife to ensure fish  were handled responsibly during the water removal process. When  necessary, we mitigate through acquiring take permits or enrolling in""
""Candidate Conservation Agreements.   To assess our operations' impact on land, habitats and species, we  use geographic information system (GIS) software. We create buffers  surrounding each of our electric generation, transmission, distribution  and service centers facility sites within a 0.5- or 1-mile range as  applicable given the facility type and cross-referenced this data with  the United States Geological Survey Protected Areas Database of the  United States dataset and each state’s""
""Natural Heritage Information  System (NHIS) protected species.  Our Data Summary shows operational sites adjacent to lands  protected or managed by conservation agencies assumed to be of  biodiversity value and species identified using NHIS data with habitats  near our facilities that are on the International Union for Conservation  of Nature Red List. We’ve identified 25 potential endangered species  and nearly 300 of interest in proximity to our facilities.   Wildlife Protection  For wind""
""projects, we develop tailored bird and bat conservation  strategies for all company-owned facilities, use the U.S. Fish and  Wildlife Service (FWS) Land-Based Wind Energy Guidelines and work  with project developers as well as state and federal agencies.  During the construction and repowering, we provide construction  contractors with site-specific environmental training to identify  and report wildlife issues. For example, we incorporate Minnesota  Department of Natural Resources""
""recommendations, such as species- specific contractor training and wildlife-friendly erosion and sediment  control, to avoid impacts to the threatened Blanding’s turtle.    2024 Sustainability Report | 26 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Our Avian Protection Plans, developed with the FWS, help protect birds  and comply with federal wildlife standards. We’ve identified high-risk  Xcel""
""Energy facilities and retrofitted them with roosting deterrents, flight  diverters that make lines more visible and other protective equipment.  Our facilities are designed to meet industry standards and prevent or  reduce the likelihood of avian incidents. Each wind farm has a site- specific Bird and Bat Conservation Strategy (BBCS), developed in  accordance with the FWS’s Land-Based Wind Energy Guidelines.   Staff receive annual training on implementing BBCS and reporting  wildlife incidents.""
""We report avian and bat loss at our facilities under the terms of our  federal and state permits and require employees to report injured birds  or fatalities. We’ve also developed site-specific eagle conservation  plans with the FWS for incidental take permits. Before construction, we  conduct surveys to understand eagle behavior at potential wind farm  sites. We use the results to adjust turbine locations and decide   on additional risk minimization for a facility's BBCS.  We partner with more""
""than a dozen communities and federal and state  wildlife agencies, conservation organizations and private landowners  to restore lands. For example, we're establishing native and pollinator- friendly vegetation across solar sites to qualify for the Minnesota Habitat  Friendly Solar Program.  Since 2014, we have invested over $16 million to reduce impacts and  enhance habitat for the lesser prairie chicken in Colorado, New Mexico  and Texas, including at our Sagamore Wind Farm and Colorado's""
""Power  Pathway project. And as one of over 40 partners of the Renewable  Energy Wildlife Institute, we support their research on minimizing  environmental impacts at wind and solar projects and endorse their  technology and studies to improve monitoring and reduce effects on  birds, bats and other wildlife.  Protecting Pollinators Our 60-plus active pollinator sites cover over 2,300 acres of habitat  at Colorado, Minnesota, North Dakota and Wisconsin company  properties. In 2018, we joined""
""Chippewa Valley Technical College in  Wisconsin to transform underutilized land beneath our transmission  lines into a sanctuary for essential pollinators. The habitat is now in full  bloom, supporting local biodiversity and brightening the community.  The Xcel Energy Foundation is committed to protecting  and preserving our natural resources. In 2024, through  our Environmental Sustainability focus area, we awarded  $848,000 to 69 nonprofit organizations. In addition to  directly supporting the""
""mission of these organizations,  the investments will result in the planting of 21,000  trees, offsetting 15,000 tons of carbon emissions. Bird Cams and Nesting Boxes​ With the 1989 installation of a peregrine falcon nest box at the Allen S.  King Station near Bayport, Minnesota, we were the first power company in  the world to host birds of prey. With Raptor Resource Project (RRP), we've  installed webcams at plants that have broadcast live nests since 1997. In 2024: • RRP banded 13 falcons at""
""five Xcel Energy sites. A total of 473 peregrines  have been born at Xcel Energy facilities since our nesting program began. • Two bald eaglets, our 49th and 50th born at the Fort St. Vrain nest, fledged  successfully. We’ve had bald eagle cameras at this plant since 2003,   and a total of 50 eaglets have fledged at this location.  2024 Sustainability Report | 27 Coal Retirement and Redevelopment   We plan to retire or convert our 12 remaining coal units to natural gas  by the end of 2030. We""
""have already successfully closed or converted  26 coal units since 2007 without worker layoffs as part of our Just  Transition. We are focused on retaining talent, developing new high- quality job opportunities and avoiding workforce reductions as we  advance toward a clean energy future.  • In 2024, we converted Harrington Generating Station northeast of  Amarillo, Texas, to natural gas. The conversion of all three units  will be complete in the summer of 2025.     • In 2025, we plan to shut""
""down Unit 2 at Comanche Station in Pueblo,  Colorado, and Unit 1 at Craig Station in Moffat County, Colorado. • In 2025, we anticipate the onset of the conversion of Pawnee Coal  Plant in Brush, Colorado, to natural gas, expected to be in service  by early 2026. Coal made up 15% of our energy mix in 2024, down from 19% in 2023.  As we transition away from coal, we are lowering or eliminating air  emissions, reducing carbon dioxide emissions, cutting waste and  reducing water consumption.""
""Water Management and Conservation   By 2030, our goal is to cut water use tied to electricity generation 70%  from 2005 levels. Since 2005, we have reduced water consumption by  34%. We're planning to retire Tolk Generating Station in Texas, which  uses groundwater from the Ogallala Aquifer, by 2028.  Responsible Water Use  Effective water management plays a vital role in the sustainable  production of energy, particularly for processes like cooling and  hydropower generation. We are a leader in""
""ensuring both reliable  electric generation and responsible stewardship of water resources  in the various climates and hydrologic areas where we operate. We  employ a variety of water management practices across our thermal  and nuclear operations. These practices are designed to minimize  environmental impact and comply with regulatory standards.  • Zero-discharge: Instead of discharging water, these cooling  systems treat and recycle virtually all the wastewater produced.  • Closed-loop:""
""Water is recirculated repeatedly, up to 25 times,  circulating between the power plant's heat source and a   cooling device.  • Open-loop: Water is drawn from a body of water, like a river or  lake, circulated through the condensers to absorb heat, and then  discharged back into the same water body.  While our closed-loop cooling plants significantly minimize water  withdrawal, our other facilities return approximately 99% of the  water they withdraw. Water is treated, monitored and analyzed to""
""ensure compliance with discharge requirements, and monitoring  data is reported monthly to state agencies. All plants strive to adhere  to state water appropriation regulations and federal Clean Water  Act wastewater discharge permits, aligning with federal goals for  maintaining swimmable and fishable water bodies.  We annually update water resource plans for Colorado, New Mexico  and Texas to reflect local climate and hydrologic conditions,  forecasted demand for electricity and water, and""
""available supplies.  We collaborate with municipalities and farmers on interruptible  water supply agreements to manage disruptions like droughts or  fires, helping maintain reliable generation by augmenting our water  supplies. We have plants in Colorado and Texas that use treated  municipal effluent for cooling, preserving billions of gallons of  freshwater and reducing competition among plants for resources. Hydroelectric Operations Responsible hydroelectric operations balance the generation""
""of clean  energy with the health of the surrounding environment. While the  only water loss from hydro plants occurs through natural evaporation,  careful management extends far beyond this. We operate 26  hydroelectric plants — six in Colorado, one in Minnesota and   19 in Wisconsin. These plants, which operate on waterways   including the Mississippi River, have the capacity to power   322,200 homes.   Our commitment to responsible operation includes proactive  collaboration with environmental""
""and wildlife agencies. This  partnership is crucial for effectively monitoring and protecting   aquatic life within these waterways. Together, we implement  measures to preserve habitat and ecological balance through  monitoring water quality, protecting aquatic life, ensuring   minimum stream flow, preventing erosion and controlling   invasive plants at all our hydroelectric sites.   Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with""
""Integrity      |      Appendix  2024 Sustainability Report | 28 2006 ~8,200  MW ~3,900 MW ~3,600  MW Out of Coal Coal Remaining 2024 2025  EOY 2030 Year Units Capacity 2006 Minnesota  Valley 3 47 MW 2007 High Bridge 3-6 353 MW 2010 Riverside 6-8 371 MW 2011 Cherokee 1 107 MW 2012 Cherokee 2 106 MW 2013 Arapahoe 3-4 144 MW 2013 Cameo 1-2 73 MW 2014 Bay Front 5*  20 MW 2015 Black Dog 3-4 282 MW 2015 Cherokee 3  152 MW 2017 Cherokee 4* 352 MW 2018 Valmont 5 184 MW 2020 Bay Front 1-2 47 MW 2022""
""Comanche 1 325 MW 2023 Sherco 2 682 MW 2024 Harrington* 1,018 MW Year Units Capacity 2026 Sherco 1 680 MW 2026 Pawnee* 505 MW 2027 Hayden 2 135 MW** 2028 Hayden 1 98 MW** 2028 Craig 2 40 MW** 2028 King 511 MW 2028 Tolk 1-2 1,067 MW 2030 Sherco 3 517 MW** 2030 Comanche 3*** 500 MW** Year Units Capacity 2025 Comanche 2 335 MW 2025 Craig 1 42 MW**     *Converted to natural gas.   **Based on Xcel Energy's ownership interest. ***Comanche 3 was added to the system in 2010 and is not reflected in 2006""
""coal remaining.  Coal Capacity — Xcel Energy System   Transitioning out of coal by 2030 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix  2024 Sustainability Report | 29 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Recycling, Reuse and Waste Management  Our waste management program focuses on avoiding waste""
""generation, reducing consumption, beneficial reuse, recycling and  responsible disposal. Our primary sources include coal ash,   materials and equipment discarded from construction, and  infrastructure maintenance or repair. We focus on efficient material  use, product alternatives and maximizing recycling, reuse or sale   of old assets. When disposal is necessary, we work to follow  environmental standards.  Investment Recovery and Recycling  In 2024, we recycled more than 36,000 tons of waste""
""and recovered  nearly $17 million through sales of surplus or retired equipment  and recyclable materials, such as fleet vehicles, transformers, plant  equipment, scrap metal or computers. These sales help to offset  operating costs and benefit customers and the environment. For  example, through our smart meter upgrade project, we have properly  disposed of hazardous components from more than three million  meters and have recycled 4,520 tons of material. We also select  recycling vendors""
""through a competitive bid process that   confirms each vendor handles materials properly and follows  environmental regulations.  Coal Ash  Coal ash produced at our generating plants is beneficially reused,  stored or disposed of at permitted third-party landfills or at company- operated coal ash facilities. We endeavor to follow the Environmental  Protection Agency’s (EPA) Coal Combustion Residuals (CCR) Rule and  meet state requirements for construction standards and operational  requirements""
""for storage and disposal. Our CCR landfills and  impoundments are subject to design and operational requirements  specified in state regulations.  Coal ash sales must comply with the EPA’s beneficial use standard. Our  contracts allow only encapsulated beneficial use or unencapsulated  beneficial use in quantities less than 12,400 tons for nonroadway  applications. We continue to make progress toward closing landfills  and impoundments at our plant sites and removing coal ash from our""
""facilities. Under the CCR program for groundwater monitoring, we are  taking corrective action at some of our plants while working with the  EPA, including implementation of a cooperative consent agreement  that was reached with the EPA for Cherokee in 2024. We are continuing  efforts to identify and implement corrective measures at the Colorado- based Cherokee, Comanche, Pawnee and Valmont plants.   Waste-to-Energy Plants  We operate three waste-to-energy plants and one biomass plant in the""
""Upper Midwest. The waste-to-energy plants, part of a public-private  partnership, increase recycling, reduce landfill waste and provide  reliable renewable energy. The waste-to-energy process provides  an approximately 80% reduction in the volume of material being  landfilled and improves metal recovery for recycling, supporting  a circular economy. It can reduce greenhouse emissions through  combusting waste, creating carbon dioxide, a less potent greenhouse  gas, instead of methane. We are""
""working on further reducing emissions  during the waste combustion process.  We also operate the Bay Front Generating Station in Ashland,  Wisconsin, which primarily uses biomass fuel such as waste wood to  generate electricity. This facility utilizes natural gas as backup fuel.   What is Coal Ash?  Coal-fueled power plants produce coal combustion residuals or  byproducts known as coal ash. Our production of coal ash will decrease  as we plan to retire remaining coal operations by the end of""
""2030. Since  2005, we have reduced coal ash production 67%. In 2024, 22% of our  coal ash was sold to companies that utilize these products as either  an additive to cement or concrete, engineered fill material, roofing  shingles, a synthetic aggregate replacement and other uses. We recycle  close to 100% of our coal ash at our Texas and New Mexico facilities.  2024 Sustainability Report | 30 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |""
""Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Biomass Facility   Celebrates Anniversary  Xcel Energy’s biomass facility in Red Wing, Minnesota,  celebrated its 75th anniversary in 2024 and nearly 40 years  of burning refuse-derived fuel (RDF). In 2013, Red Wing  began its solid waste partnership with Xcel Energy by signing  a multiyear agreement to deliver RDF to our local steam  plant. The facility produces 123,000 megawatt-hours of  electricity annually, enough energy to power the equivalent  of""
""about 11,000 homes. All Xcel Energy employees share responsibility  for managing our waste streams, and  the Environmental Services department  is responsible for the company’s waste  management program. We keep track of and report on the disposal of our regular hazardous  or controlled waste. Our program requires this waste is only sent to  disposal sites that are legally permitted to handle it, and these sites  must have insurance, be financially sound and have a good track  record of""
""following environmental rules.  The amount of waste we produced in 2024 was a normal amount for  how we usually operate, and it was in line with the environmental  laws and regulations we strive to follow. Excluding ash residuals  from our waste-to-energy facilities, coal-fired plants and biomass- fired plants, we generated more than 23,000 tons of nonhazardous  specially regulated wastes (industrial and commercial waste streams  that cannot be combined with mixed municipal waste). In 2024, we""
""diverted 39% of this waste from disposal.  We make dedicated efforts to remove known polychlorinated  biphenyls (PCB) equipment from our system and have retrofitted  large substation equipment to reduce PCBs to nonregulated levels.  We also remove equipment identified as containing regulated levels  of PCBs and replace it with non-PCB equipment unless design or  procurement constraints exist.  For managing hazardous or special wastes, we prefer disposal  methods like incineration or""
""detoxification, which eliminate the PCBs  from the waste stream. In 2024, we decontaminated or detoxified,  then recycled, 31% of the PCB-related waste we generated.   Other Operational Waste  We follow best practices to manage waste at all our facilities by:  • Implementing compliance programs to ensure employees   are properly trained. • Using vetted and certified disposal partners and striving to follow  regulatory guidelines. • Maintaining a list of targeted ingredients of highly""
""regulated  substances and emerging contaminants of concern to help limit or  restrict the use of these ingredients in our operations and through  our supply contracts. • Forming an approved vendor stakeholder group to assess   vendors and promote positive disposal practices. In 2024, 33% of the hazardous waste we generated was diverted  from disposal. Of that total, only 29% was treated and disposed of  in a landfill, with less than 1% untreated. We eliminated hazardous  characteristics in the""
""remaining waste by treatment, incineration  or consumption for energy production at permitted facilities. We  have only one location — a groundwater treatment system that  serves the Ashland Superfund site in Wisconsin — that produces  enough hazardous waste to classify as a Large Quantity Generator.  Approximately 94% of our facilities, including power plants and  service centers, are classified as Very Small Quantity Generators.   2024 Sustainability Report | 31 Reach Net Zero Responsibly""
""received five compliance orders, advisories or  NOVs involving activities at our facilities in 2024. Every year, as part of  our internal and ongoing efforts to self-identify and self-correct any  potential noncompliance issues, we conduct our own facility audits.   Since 1999, through the Toxics Release Inventory (TRI) program, we  have annually reported releases of certain substances to air, land and  water under the EPA’s Emergency Planning and Community-Right-to- Know Act. Our releases""
""result from using coal, oil and RDF to produce  electricity from nine generating plants, and combustion of these fuels  releases trace amounts of TRI-reportable substances. From 2005 to  2023, we reduced releases by more than 55% due to the decreased  use of coal. Most of our TRI-reportable substances are contained in  coal ash at our plants, preventing them from entering the air. We  capture about 95% of these constituents and safely dispose of them in  managed landfills.  Each state where we""
""operate has specific spill response and reporting  requirements, including promptly cleaning up unplanned release of a  petroleum or chemical substance. In 2024, we recorded 521 spills, with  125 reported to state or federal regulatory agencies and one reported  to the National Response Center.  See the Appendix for a list of compliance orders, advisories   and NOVs.  2024 Sustainability Report | 32 VALUE  PEOPLE Workforce Safety Employee Experience Workforce Planning Culture and Belonging""
""Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix  2024 Sustainability Report | 33 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Workforce Safety  As one of our four corporate values, safety  is integral to our business operations and  workforce. With nearly 11,400 employees  and more than 740 active""
""contractor  partners across eight states, our goal is to  maintain a safety culture that promotes  learning, improving and using critical  controls that save lives. Ultimately, we want  our colleagues and contractor partners to  feel comfortable reporting injuries, allowing  them to receive prompt and proper care.   2024 Sustainability Report | 34 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Safety""
""contractors completed 87 event learnings, leading to 46 new  safety controls designed to prevent serious events. We selected  these learnings from 554 near-miss submissions.   • Critical Risk Management (CRM): CRM ensures crews identify,  analyze, control and monitor risks that could impact the electric  power sector during the course of work. We expanded training,  monitoring and evaluation to include employees and contractors  and prequalify contract firms based on 14 critical risk areas. •""
""Enhanced Energy Wheel: This tool visually represents potential  energy sources on a job site that might not be immediately  apparent and encourages considering critical controls for  mitigating or eliminating risk. Safety starts at the top, and our chief operations officer (COO), along  with our frontline employees, work hard to prevent all incidents from  occurring. In 2024, we continued to identify critical controls due to  changing processes, tools and equipment. A team of Operations and""
""provide resources and  updates on natural gas, contacting 811 before digging and more to   our customers.   2024 Safety Achievements  32%  reduction in serious injuries  20%   reduction in severity of   near-miss reports  15,361  safety crew observations  Our goal is to achieve the highest standards  of safety by eliminating serious injuries and  fatalities (SIF) by 2030. To reach this goal, we  will continue to enhance our safety culture  and processes, ensuring we maintain a 100%  capacity to""
""fail safely.  At Xcel Energy, safety is a core value. We strive to ensure  all employees and contractors return home safely by  understanding workplace hazards and implementing  controls to minimize harm, even if incidents occur. I'm  proud of our progress in enhancing safety across all   Xcel Energy assets to reduce serious injuries.  — Mark Prewitt, area vice president, Safety  2024 Sustainability Report | 35 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen""
""Energy is committed  to ensuring the safety and  well-being of our community  through a comprehensive  public safety awareness  campaign. Learn more in the  Public Safety and Security  section.  2024 Sustainability Report | 36 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Employee Experience  People are at the center of everything we do. And that’s not just our customers — it's our colleagues  too.""
""Every one of our employees contributes to the success of Xcel Energy and adds value to the  communities we serve. Creating a work environment where they feel respected, motivated and engaged  is a priority. As our workforce and the way people do their jobs continue to evolve, we must also adapt.  From enhancing our facilities to embracing flexible work schedules, we are committed to empowering  our coworkers to live their lives to the fullest.    2024 Sustainability Report | 37 Reach Net Zero""
""have built a best-in-class workforce of nearly 11,400 people, with 45% covered by a  collective bargaining agreement. And it's these people who are responsible for delivering the safe, clean, reliable and low-cost energy our   customers and communities expect.  NORTH DAKOTA NEW MEXICO TEXAS MINNESOTA SOUTH DAKOTA WISCONSIN MICHIGAN Employees by State   3,812 4,661 108 1,586 25 234 99 860 OTHER: 8 TOTAL : 11,393 PowerUp Program Leading the clean energy transition requires a skilled, innovative""
""workforce to build new generation and transmission infrastructure. That is the goal of our PowerUp program.  Last year, 61 graduates completed the 12-week program in partnership  with Minnesota’s Department of Employment and Economic  Development. We've invested $4 million to train 150 participants   for energy jobs, construction trades or union apprenticeships by   June 30, 2025. “I finally have a way to take care of my family, said Wayne Blanks,  PowerUp program graduate and future journeyman.""
""I’ve got  insurance for my family. It’s empowerment.”   2024 Sustainability Report | 38 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Xcel Energy strives to be an employer of choice, and we partner with  educational and community organizations to recruit employees who  reflect the communities we serve and live our values.  In 2024, we participated in 91 in-person career fairs and outreach  events and""
""leadership at the University of  Denver. This education has enabled me to become a more effective HR  professional, capable of leading enterprise-scale technology, benefits and  compliance projects that improve the employee experience and support  the business. Benefits like this truly highlight how Xcel Energy invests in  the development and growth of its talent.”  — Svetlana Mikhaylova, principal HR project analyst   2024 Sustainability Report | 39 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value""
""renewable, recyclable and  nontoxic and achieves top certifications like LEED and ENERGY STAR.  Our new service center in St. Paul, Minnesota, used energy-efficient  construction and will offer charging stations for electric and hybrid  fleet vehicles. In 2024, we broke ground on a new service center in  Grand Forks, North Dakota — expected to be complete in the fall of  2025 — and have started the second phase of our Sioux Falls, South  Dakota, service center expansion. • Well-being: We""
""provide resources for physical, emotional and  financial health through digital and in-person channels, including a  high-deductible health care plan, pet insurance, dental and vision  plans, fitness reimbursements, digital physical therapy, an employee  assistance program and more.     These benefits demonstrate our commitment to cultivating a team of  innovative employees who live our values and help us achieve our vision  of becoming a net-zero energy provider by 2050. See all our benefits on""
""our careers website.    2024 Sustainability Report | 40 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Workforce Planning Our mission is to make energy work better for our customers — and achieving  that mission requires a steady stream of adept professionals. Our data-driven  workforce planning strategy ensures we maintain the right workforce size  and skills to effectively serve our customers,""
""engage with stakeholders, meet  business objectives and manage potential risks.   2024 Sustainability Report | 41 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Strategic Planning   We use data to inform our one-to-five-year workforce plans. In 2024,  employee turnover was 9.2%, with 12.2% due to retirements, 67.8%  from resignations and 20% for other reasons. We expect 19% of our  workforce to be""
""we plan to retire coal  operations by 2030. Xcel Energy is committed to retaining talent and  providing support to help employees prepare for other roles at our  company. Our approach includes:  • Advanced notice. • Regular communication with employees. • Career planning and opportunities. • Managing transitions. Each transition is unique and requires careful attention. In addition  to giving employees time to explore new roles and locations, we  provide career path opportunities, analyze skills""
""and offer resources  like on-the-job training, upskilling, reskilling opportunities and tuition  reimbursement.  We also work with bargaining unit management to mitigate impacts  on pay or seniority during transitions, especially when changing union  locations or job classifications.    Since 2007, we've closed or   converted 26 coal units without   forced workforce reductions.     Retirement  Retirees are also important members of the Xcel Energy network.  In addition to helping employees""
""prepare for a financially secure  retirement, we and the Xcel Energy Foundation offer a variety of ways  for our alumni to stay engaged, such as volunteer projects, networking  events and newsletters.                             Putting People First As we plan to retire or repower coal units at our generating plants,  we're committed to providing new opportunities for our employees. “A passion of mine is people, and I have a unique viewpoint of   how I can help the team transition from coal to""
""community.”  — Frank Clements, Xcel Energy retiree  2024 Sustainability Report | 42 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Culture and Belonging  Xcel Energy values the experiences, backgrounds and perspectives of all individuals. We aim to  build a culture that fosters belonging and enables high-performing teams while delivering lasting  impact for our employees, customers and communities. We""
""also have a longstanding commitment  to creating a workplace based on our core values, and we believe our approach, which is embedded  in our Code of Conduct, has been instrumental to our business success. Our commitment to these  principles has demonstrated we are able to amplify and capitalize on everyone’s unique talents,  voices and ideas to drive positive outcomes within our company and our communities.   2024 Sustainability Report | 43 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People""
""Energy employees. Whether they  choose to pursue long-term careers with us or strike out to find their  own futures, we value our interns and recognize their hard work,  dedication and the role they play in our success.  2024 Sustainability Report | 44 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix In 2024, our 13 BRGs sponsored 187 events and activities at worksites across the eight states we serve.""
""also made up 5% of our new hires.  We’ve received accolades from Military Times and VIQTORY as a  Best for Vets and Military Friendly employer. Other ways we support  veterans include:  • Department of Defense SkillBridge program. • Hiring our Heroes Corporate Fellowship program. • Veteran job fairs. • VETS BRG.  2024 Sustainability Report | 45 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Xcel""
""Energy Foundation  More than 44% of 2024 grant funding from the Xcel Energy   Foundation supported nonprofit organizations with a mission  dedicated to promoting and advancing traditionally underrepresented  groups as part of our Energizing the Future grants. This included more  than 173 organizations and approximately $2 million.  For example, as part of our ongoing efforts to invest in community  vitality, we awarded a $30,000 strategic philanthropy grant to three  Boys and Girls Clubs on""
""believe all youth should have the opportunity to grow and thrive, creating a positive impact on the future of their communities.”  — Jennifer Prochnow, Social Investments representative  2024 Sustainability Report | 46 STRENGTHEN  COMMUNITIES  Affordability and Energy Savings Reliability and Resiliency  Public Safety and Security Community Impact Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix  2024""
""Sustainability Report | 47 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Affordability and Energy Savings  Xcel Energy has a long history of providing safe, reliable, low-cost power —  and affordability is a key guardrail on our path to sustainability. As we face  unprecedented demand for energy, we will continue to provide solutions that  help our customers take control of their energy use while""
""keeping costs as low  as possible. From adding more renewable energy to our system and securing  competitively priced fuel contracts to installing smart meters and developing  new energy efficiency programs, we’re committed to making energy work   better for our customers.  Xcel Energy residential electric  bills are 28% below the national  average and natural gas bills   are 12% below the national  average — some of the lowest   in the country.  2024 Sustainability Report | 48 Reach Net Zero""
""Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Energy Assistance In 2024, we connected 193,000 customers with $175 million of energy  assistance and completed 168 outreach campaigns and 1.3 million  touchpoints. On top of our programs for customers with medical needs,  seniors or those experiencing payment difficulties, we partner with  state agencies and nonprofits by promoting Low-Income Home Energy  Assistance,""
""energy assistance agencies and weatherization programs.  In Colorado, Minnesota and Michigan, we assist eligible customers by  setting their bills at affordable levels based on their income and energy  usage. Depending on the program, we match the remaining portion of  their bills or apply a monthly bill credit. We also encourage customers   to donate to help others with their energy bills.    Automatic Bill Credit Pilot  In 2024, Xcel Energy proposed an Automatic Bill Credit pilot developed  in""
""collaboration with our Equity Stakeholder Advisory Group (ESAG).  The first-of-its-kind pilot aims to provide automatic bill assistance  to customers with an electric energy burden higher than 4% of their  yearly income.  By using geographic data on energy burden, it will automatically  provide energy assistance to households without requiring them to go  through a challenging, time-consuming enrollment process. “As someone who has helped oversee the programs requiring an  application process, I""
""know how impactful that support can be  for families,” said Sandra Pyles, director of energy assistance for  Community Action Partnership of Ramsey and Washington Counties.  “Xcel Energy’s Automatic Bill Credit is special because it adds an  extra layer of support without requiring any additional steps from  households. It’s automatic, meaningful and complements the existing  resources in a way that lightens the load just a bit more. I applaud  Xcel Energy for implementing this innovative""
""approach of assisting  households automatically using geographic energy burden data. It  shows they deeply care about these households and are continuously  looking for ways to meet households where they are.” Bill credits will begin appearing on eligible customers’ bills in the  second quarter of 2025; we have proposed to deliver these credits  for the duration of the two-year pilot. As approved by the Minnesota  PUC, the pilot will deliver bill credits to about 17,000 premises in 63  census""
""areas, with an average bill credit of $240 a year. Cost to other  customers is less than $1.50 a year. A monitoring and evaluation plan,  implemented by a third-party evaluator, will assess the pilot's success  to determine whether it should be made permanent. Our Responsibility to Customers ​ We operate under regulated conditions set by state commissions, which  approve our rates, services and plans. In exchange for the exclusive right  to provide electricity and natural gas service, we adhere""
""to the following  regulatory requirements:   Duty to serve: We cannot pick and choose our customers, nor can we deny  service. We will provide service to any residence or business within our  service area that requests it under reasonable terms and conditions. This  includes the availability and extension of natural gas service as long as  there is customer demand.     Pricing: We cannot arbitrarily raise prices to levels beyond our costs.  Pricing for our services is regulated by the costs we""
""recover our costs and have the opportunity to  earn a reasonable rate of return. This profit component is not guaranteed;   it is subject to regulatory approval.   2024 Sustainability Report | 49 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix 492K   payment plans for   residential customers  $175M    in energy and affordability   assistance  193K  customers benefited $907  average benefit per""
""customer We only disconnect service as a last resort, after many weeks  of working with customers to agree on a payment arrangement  that works for them and, if needed, connecting them with energy  assistance. In 2024, we disconnected less than 142,000 residential  customers, with 87% reconnected within 30 days. Most were  reconnected within 72 hours after arranging payment plans or paying  in full. Heat-affected disconnections are paused during the heating  season in our five Upper Midwest""
""states.    Energy Efficiency and Demand Side Management   We offer hundreds of ways for businesses, families and individuals  to conserve electricity and natural gas, lower their bills and reduce  their carbon footprints. Our electric and natural gas Demand Side  Management (DSM) programs offer monetary incentives and support  to help customers buy energy-efficient equipment or lower bills if they  reduce energy usage during peak demand times.   Just as customers want more control over their""
""energy use, they also  want more choice in how it’s produced. We offer innovative solutions,  such as Renewable*Connect Flex®, Solar*Rewards and net metering,  that give customers the opportunity to diversify their energy mix  and save money. In 2024, 23,000 on-site solar systems were installed  through our Solar*Rewards program, adding 131 megawatts of  distributed solar capacity. See all the ways we help customers save   on xcelenergy.com. Nonprofit Energy Savings  Xcel Energy worked with The""
""Good Acre, Minnesota's largest  nonprofit food hub, to discover energy efficiency opportunities  through our Nonprofit Energy Savings program, which offers free  services, consulting and rebates. Adapting our building and operations is not just a question of  financial efficiency, said Theresa McCormick, executive director of  The Good Acre. This is really about what's a food system that works  for our whole community today and tomorrow. Sustainability Meets Affordability Through a pilot""
""partnership between Xcel Energy, the Denver Housing  Authority, Energy Outreach Colorado and others, residents of Denver’s  Dispersed West Public Housing can enjoy more sustainable, affordable  housing. The $661,000 project included adding central air conditioning,  replacing window units and fans for cooling, replacing natural gas   furnaces and water heaters with energy efficient, all-electric heating   and water heaters powered by heat pump technologies.   2024 Sustainability Report | 50""
""Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix $190M   paid in customer rebates and   other incentives   $320M   total invested in DSM programs  8M   energy-savings participants   (electric + natural gas) 1.1K   gigawatt hours of electricity saved —  enough to power 141K homes  2.3M   dekatherms of natural gas saved —  enough to fuel 31K homes for a year 550K  tons carbon emissions avoided —""
""equivalent to planting 8.3M trees Smart Meters  Smart electric meters are an integral component of our Advanced Grid  initiative, designed to deliver reliable, low-cost and secure electric  service. They provide customers with access to real-time data to better  control their electricity efficiency. Since 2021, we have installed nearly  3.2 million smart meters across our states, reaching 80% of our goal  to install 3.9 million meters by 2026. The two-way communication  network allows smart""
""meters and devices to send secure information  to Xcel Energy, helping customers manage usage and enabling quicker  responses to power outages. With their new meters, customers can  access online tools, tips and energy use data in 15-minute intervals.      Saving Our Slopes  Since the summer of 2024, Eldora Mountain Resort has been  powered entirely by 100% renewable electricity. A key contributor  to this was its participation in our Renewable*Connect®,  Renewable*Connect Flex® and Energy""
""Efficient Building programs.   “Our three main environmental goals are to procure 100%  renewable energy, to migrate to electric and to increase our building  efficiency, said Hunter Wright, director of sustainability and project  development, Eldora Mountain Resort. In every single one of those  initiatives, Xcel Energy is a great partner for us. Eldora has taken other steps to reduce its environmental footprint,  including installing 52.65 kilowatts and 7.7 kilowatts solar arrays  on two of""
""its buildings, offering EV charging stations and operating  hybrid and electric fleet vehicles. Since 1992, when we began consistently tracking DSM program   results, our customers have saved enough energy to avoid building   30 average-size power plants.  2024 Sustainability Report | 51 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Reliability and Resiliency   Reliability is foundational to our""
""clean energy future, and it’s our job to deliver it safely, 24 hours a day,  365 days a year. We’re committed to modernizing and hardening our energy grid while ensuring safe  operations and affordability. It's our responsibility to advance sustainability without compromising  the dependable service our customers count on. Through strategic investments, we are confident we  can deliver a better energy system, one that is weather-resilient, responsive and ready to serve our  customers for decades""
""to come.  Xcel Energy is one of the most  reliable energy companies in  the industry, delivering electric  service at 99.98% reliability.   2024 Sustainability Report | 52 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Capital Investment Plan  Economic growth and community vitality depend on our ability to  deliver energy to our customers when and where they need it while  keeping their bills as low""
""as possible. Our new capital investment  plan demonstrates how we are proactively planning and preparing for  long-term energy needs by focusing on four core areas: clean energy,  customer support, increasing capacity, and safety and reliability. Over  the next five years, we will invest $45 billion in generation, distribution,  transmission and other projects across our eight-state service footprint  to meet unprecedented increases in demand and protect against  increasingly frequent and""
""extreme weather. Learn more. We have a proven track record of keeping costs low for customers,  with some of the lowest average electric and natural gas bills in the  nation. This plan deepens our commitment to serve and support our  customers’ needs efficiently and through a best-in-class customer  experience while keeping bills as low as possible.    Reliable, Resilient Energy   We continue to make significant investments to enhance grid resiliency  and improve reliability to tackle current""
""challenges and ensure a more  sustainable, cost-effective energy future for our communities.  Our System Resiliency Plan aims to strengthen our ability to respond  to extreme weather, wildfires and other physical threats and will  deliver benefits across the Texas Panhandle and South Plains. If  approved by the PUC of Texas, Xcel Energy will invest approximately  $490 million over three years. The plan supports:  • Reduced, shorter outages. • Bill savings from decreased recovery costs and""
""states we serve. Proposed distribution capacity additions include:  • 100+ new or upgraded substation transformer banks. • 35 new substations. • 300+ new feeders.  • 150+ capacity projects.  • 3.1 gigawatts of new capacity. A strong transmission system ensures continued reliable and  affordable service, the ability to meet state and regional energy   policy goals and support for a diverse generation mix, including  renewable energy. We own approximately 111,000 conductor   miles of transmission""
""lines across our service territory.    For natural gas, we're investing more than $3.4 billion in projects  that tighten and improve our system between 2025 and 2029. We've  replaced all cast-iron pipes, all our transmission pipes are protected  steel and nearly all our distribution pipes are plastic or protected steel.  One of the most critical components of emergency response is a  stable, secure power supply. That’s why we’re investing in microgrid  projects. Our Community Resiliency""
""Initiative in Colorado supports  critical infrastructure during a disaster by using energy storage systems  to deliver backup power. We’re partnering with several communities  and sites on battery-based microgrids to supply power during wide- scale electrical outages. Projects have been completed at the Alamosa  Recreation Center, the Arvada Center and Nederland Community  Center with another planned at the Denver Rescue Mission.   2024 Sustainability Report | 53 Reach Net Zero Responsibly""
""|      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Wildfire Prevention  Xcel Energy is committed to making strategic investments and  improvements to support our power grid, heighten public safety,   build grid resilience and increase situational awareness to  mitigate wildfire risk. We’ve onboarded a team of analysts, wildfire  meteorologists, data scientists, regulatory specialists, community  outreach coordinators, planners and""
""operations managers dedicated  to supporting prevention programs. By harnessing our expertise, state- of-the-art fire science software, wildfire risk models, data science and a  seven-day-a-week forecasting system, we are taking significant actions  to prevent wildfires and protect our customers and communities.  In February 2024, Xcel Energy assets were involved in the Smokehouse  Creek Fire in West Texas. Our response was prompt and transparent  as we repaired damaged infrastructure, fulfilled""
""claims from those  impacted and supported the local community’s needs. Xcel Energy  crews worked through hazardous conditions to restore service and  provide essential relief. Our response also included:  • Donating $1 million from the Xcel Energy Foundation to the  Amarillo Area Foundation. • Volunteering and engaging with local and state partners, like  offices of emergency management and fire departments. • Committing to actively addressing wildfire impacts and the legal  and financial""
""challenges resulting from the fire. • Promptly and proactively establishing dedicated support to   assist impacted customers, including a process for collecting   and processing claims on an expedited basis. We are addressing the threat of wildfire head-on across the states we  serve, having invested millions of dollars in upgrading our system and  evolving our operations over the past several years.  Our wildfire mitigation strategy leverages advanced technologies like  weather stations and""
""artificial intelligence (AI)-enabled, 360-degree,  ultrahigh-definition cameras. Our current weather station network  includes 25 proprietary stations that cover more than 1.5 million acres  in Colorado. In 2025, we plan to install an additional 102 stations in  Colorado and 25 in Texas. We have also deployed 42 wildfire   detection cameras in Colorado and three in Texas through 2024,   and we plan to expand the system to include 135 in Colorado and   57 in Texas in 2025.  During periods of""
""elevated wildfire risk or when operating near  active wildfires, we may temporarily disconnect service along  power lines through a Public Safety Power Shutoff (PSPS).  The primary objective of PSPS is to enhance public safety and  prevent wildfires during dangerous weather conditions.  2024 Sustainability Report | 54 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix In Colorado, we filed our 2025-2027""
""Wildfire Mitigation Plan in the  summer of 2024, detailing our multiyear proposal to build upon and  improve existing efforts to reduce wildfire risk, integrate industry  experience, incorporate evolving risk assessment methodologies and  add new technologies. In Texas, our System Resiliency Plan includes  enhanced inspections, vegetation clearing, replacing structures,  installing weather stations, using AI for predictive modeling, placing  panoramic cameras for early wildfire detection,""
""upgrading fire- resistant equipment and improving emergency response plans. We are  also working alongside EEI, our peer utilities and others to pursue a  federal legislative framework on wildfire.    Public safety is at the forefront of these investments, and we will  continue to evolve these efforts as we evaluate new technologies,  complete more inspections and studies, and expand collaboration  with peer utilities and industry partners.   Vegetation Management  In addition to helping us""
""provide safe, reliable service, our vegetation  management practices support biodiversity and protect critical  habitats. Trees and vegetation are vital to carbon capture, habitat  conservation and local ecosystems. That’s why we take a thoughtful,  science-based approach to vegetation management — balancing  safety with environmental responsibility. We use industry best  practices to manage millions of trees across nearly 50,000 miles of  distribution pathways and more than 20,000 miles of""
""transmission  corridors. Elements of our Integrated Vegetation Management   strategy include:  • Following pruning standards based on the American National  Standards Institute and International Society of Arboriculture. • Using herbicides registered with the EPA and professionally  applied in accordance with state licensing requirements. • Addressing risk of trees falling into power lines due to tree  mortality and other hazardous conditions through various   patrol and monitoring programs.""
""• Promoting the removal of incompatible vegetation and   supporting establishment of pollinator-friendly plants through   our transmission line maintenance activities. • Working with landowners along our power line corridors to decide  if trees and other vegetation can be made compatible with safety  around our electric lines. • Sharing information on sustainable landscaping and responsible  tree planting. Storm and Emergency Response  From keeping the lights on to heating homes, it’s our job""
""to keep the  electricity and natural gas flowing — and strong storm and emergency  response is imperative to reliability and resiliency. As climate change  drives more frequent and severe weather events, our ability to  respond quickly and safely has never been more critical.  We worked nearly 227,000 storm hours in 2024, a 10% increase over  2023. On active storm days in 2024, we restored 92% of customers’   power within 24 hours, continuing to outperform the industry  standard of 80%.      For""
""our efforts to restore service following a powerful Colorado spring  storm in 2024, we won an EEI Emergency Recovery Award. Despite  harsh weather conditions, our field crews restored power to more than  150,000 customers in Denver and the surrounding area within   72 hours. EEI also recognized our mutual aid response with an  Emergency Response Award following hurricanes Helene and Milton.  More than 100 Xcel Energy employees, from line workers and fleet  mechanics to safety consultants and""
""operations leaders, answered   the call for mutual assistance.   These coordinated efforts are a critical part of building a more   climate-resilient, adaptive and sustainable energy system for the  communities we serve.   Vegetation management  is one of our most  critical wildfire  mitigation tools. After the Rapidan Dam flooding, which   swept a power substation downriver,   Xcel Energy crews worked through  challenging conditions and collaborated   with emergency management and local""
""officials to get 600 customers’ power back on. In August 2024, our crews restored power to  more than 250,000 customers after severe  thunderstorms, hail and winds of 60+ mph hit  Minneapolis and St. Paul, Minnesota.   2024 Sustainability Report | 55 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Public Safety and Security  Xcel Energy champions safety as a core value and a cornerstone of our""
""sustainability commitment.  All employees are expected to keep each other, our customers and the public safe — because a  reliable, resilient and sustainable energy system depends on a strong safety culture. Every year, we  distribute thousands of safety materials through multiple channels, sharing messages that help  prevent accidents, protect natural resources and strengthen long-term community well-being.   2024 Sustainability Report | 56 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People""
""from overhead power lines and at least 30 feet  away from downed power lines. • Gas leak response and prevention: We promptly address  potential or active gas leak notifications and remind the public   to keep natural gas meters clear of snow and ice or other debris. • Pipeline emergency response: As an active sponsor of the  Pipeline Emergency Response Division, we distribute safety  materials to excavators and participate in initiatives to enhance  pipeline safety awareness. We also""
""prioritize natural gas safety. Damage to underground natural  gas facilities from third-party excavation is the biggest risk to our  distribution system and public safety. We are members of the Common  Ground Alliance, one-call (811) centers in our service states and the  Damage Prevention Institute. We use the American Gas Association’s  (AGA) damage prevention performance metrics and have achieved  top-quartile performance. We measure the occurrence of leaks on  our system through annual""
""sustainable energy future.    • We proactively engage with partners to prevent, protect, defend  and recover from potential cyberattacks and engage with industry  peers and government partners to improve security awareness and  develop solutions.  • We regularly conduct simulated phishing tests to mimic   real attacks, measure resilience and reinforce the habit   of reporting threats.  • To address increasing physical attacks on substations, we continue  to enhance current physical security""
""protections and develop  future hardening efforts. • A cross-functional team is hardening our natural gas system  against potential security threats. • Our first-in-the-industry Enterprise Corrective Action program  enables us to identify and remediate issues across the company. • Our programs help employees understand current threats,   identify attempts to attack our systems and contribute to   our risk mitigation efforts. • Our president, chairman and CEO is a member of the Electric""
""Sector Coordinating Council, the principal liaison between the  federal government and the electric power sector on critical  infrastructure protection. Through the annual national grid  exercise, the council focuses on ways to improve the resilience  of our bulk power system, addresses supply chain shortages and  examines critical infrastructure interdependencies to reduce risk  and improve reliability. To date, no cybersecurity incident or attack affecting us or our vendors  has had a material""
""impact on our business or results of operations.     2024 Sustainability Report | 57 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Community Impact    At Xcel Energy, sustainability is also about supporting people and communities — helping them achieve  energy goals, expand economic development opportunities and move toward a clean energy future  together. Through workforce development, local""
""investments, strategic giving and engagement, we are  building long-term resilience and delivering meaningful benefits to the communities we serve so they  continue to grow and thrive.   2024 Sustainability Report | 58 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Economic Development   In 2024, our Corporate Economic Development team initiated   24 projects, equaling $5.1 billion in capital""
""investment and nearly   3,200 jobs.     Just Transition   Consistent with our state approved plans and Just Transition  position statement, we are committed to doing the right thing for our  employees and communities. Achieving 100% carbon-free electricity  by 2050 requires the transition of our coal generation fleet to cleaner  energy sources. Plant closures may impact our employees and local  economies in terms of jobs and tax base, and as every community is  unique, each transition requires""
""employees explore, prepare  for and assume new roles or to learn the new assets or equipment  within their existing role.   • Build on our long-standing stakeholder relationships with  community leaders, state and local government officials, economic  development groups and local businesses to help maintain a  healthy tax base and foster continued economic growth in each  host community.    We have closed or transitioned 26 coal units, most recently converting  the three units at Harrington""
""Station in Amarillo, Texas, from coal to  locally produced natural gas at the end of 2024. We recently submitted  a request to the Colorado PUC to approve our Just Transition  Solicitation for locating future new power generation in Hayden and  Pueblo. In Becker, Minnesota, we’re transitioning our Sherco power  plant from coal to clean energy sources, primarily through solar and  battery storage projects.  We’re working to mitigate economic impact, maintain a healthy tax  base and foster""
""continued economic growth in these communities   with no forced layoffs.  Community Engagement   We recognize strong community relationships are fundamental to our  sustainability efforts. We actively cultivate community partnerships  to address local needs and advance shared goals, collaborating with  organizations on initiatives ranging from energy efficiency programs   to community resiliency projects.  Ensuring meaningful stakeholder engagement in our projects is a  priority, and we""
""proactively seek input from landowners, residents   and local authorities during the planning and development of our  energy infrastructure.   We are committed to economic development within the communities  we serve, offering energy solutions, incentives and expertise to  attract businesses, support job creation and contribute to the  overall prosperity of our service areas. For example, under the  authority created by a Minnesota PUC order, we have convened  an Environmental Justice""
""Accountability Board (EJAB). EJAB is a  15-member advisory body, including representatives from labor,  environmental organizations, distributed energy and energy efficiency  providers, low-income advocates, housing, philanthropy and Tribal  communities. This board is helping shape the design and delivery of  our services to better reflect community needs.    Economic Value Distributed for 2024 (in millions) Supply chain spending with small or local businesses $4,800 Capital investments $5,100""
""Electric fuel and purchased power costs $3,788 Interest charges and financing costs $1,182 Dividends paid $1,175 Cost of natural gas sold and transported $951 Property tax payments $525 Franchise fees $261 Community giving $14 Energy and bill payment assistance $175 Powering the Digital Economy To meet the growing demand of the digital economy, Xcel Energy is taking  steps to partner with communities and technology companies to power data  centers across our service footprint. Data centers boast""
""several economic  benefits and align with our five-year capital plan that will expand, strengthen  and modernize our system.   “Data centers run 24/7, all year long, and powering them with carbon-free  energy makes a big impact. We are excited to provide the energy for data  centers, said Ryan Long, president, Xcel Energy – Minnesota, North Dakota  and South Dakota.  By 2029, we expect to capture about 25% of the nearly 9,000 megawatts of  data center opportunity pipeline currently available""
""industrial customers.   2024 Sustainability Report | 59 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix   Giving and Volunteering  Our communities are the heart of our company, and our employees  are deeply rooted in the places they live and work. From annual  philanthropic initiatives like our Day of Service and Power Your  Purpose Giving Campaign to our focus area grants and employee giving""
""community volunteers 1.2K nonprofits served through volunteering 484 community boards *Based on Independent Sector’s 2024 Value of Volunteer Time Providing Critical Services   through Microgrids   Xcel Energy is a part of the Resilient Minneapolis Project (RMP), which  will install solar/battery microgrids at three community centers.  These centers will serve as resilience hubs and provide critical  services to those most impacted during an electric system outage.  We are partnering with the""
""City of Minneapolis to build microgrids at  Sabathani Community Center and the Minneapolis American Indian  Center, and providing support to Renewable Energy Partners to build  a third microgrid on Minneapolis Public Schools buildings in North  Minneapolis. The project is also focused on incorporating a workforce  training and career pathways program for installation, operation and  maintenance of the distributed energy technologies included in the  microgrids under a training and technical""
""assistance agreement with  the University of Saint Thomas’ Center for Microgrid Research. RMP is  funded by Xcel Energy customers and the DOE's Grid Resilience and  Innovation Partnerships program.  “Our mission has always been rooted in empowering and uplifting  the communities we serve,” said Scott Redd, CEO and president of  Sabathani. “The partnership with Xcel Energy, the City of Minneapolis  and Sabathani is a powerful step toward building a stronger  Minneapolis that's built for climate""
""resilience through clean energy.  Together, we're not only advancing sustainable solutions — we're  building a stronger, more secure future for our neighbors.   Xcel Energy and our foundation engage, empower and uplift the  communities we serve by providing fulfilling programs and services  that let our employees give back to their communities and causes  important to them. The Xcel Energy Foundation's grant framework, Energizing the Future,  strategically targets three impact areas: STEM Career""
""Pathways,  Environmental Stewardship and Community Vitality.  The Xcel Energy Foundation Board oversees charitable giving and   volunteer programs. It is comprised of eight members and three  officers. The board meets quarterly to review financial statements,   set program policies and approve the annual budget. “[Xcel Energy's] programs such as the Giving Campaign, Day of Service,  volunteer paid time off, Dollars for Doing and matching gifts make it  easy to give back. I feel fortunate to work""
""for a company that values and  supports community involvement.”  — Michael Gabriel, senior IT solution analyst  2024 Sustainability Report | 60 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix • Focus area grants: Our Energizing the Future grant framework  targets three impact areas: STEM Career Pathways, Community  Vitality and Environmental Stewardship.  • Giving programs: Our four giving programs""
""priorities.      2,300 volunteers came  together for our annual  Day of Service. Watch  them put good energy  into action! Xcel Energy is partnering with the Science Museum of Minnesota on a new energy exhibit, opening in June 2025. We made a   $500,000 commitment to fund the exhibit, which will offer one-of-a-kind, full-body, interactive experiences on energy, energy   storage and distribution. The museum also runs on 100% carbon-free energy and participates in our renewable choice programs.""
""“We are thankful for Xcel Energy’s partnership on this project, said Alison Rempel Brown, president and CEO of the Science Museum  of Minnesota. Opening our visitors up to discover the possibilities for wind and solar power in this fun and interactive way will help  contribute to a sustainable future for all.  2024 Sustainability Report | 61 OPERATE  WITH  INTEGRITY  Sustainability Oversight and Governance Public Policy  Supply Chain Partnerships Ethics and Compliance Reach Net Zero Responsibly""
""|      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix  2024 Sustainability Report | 62 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Sustainability Oversight and Governance Our commitment to sustainability is deeply embedded within our organizational structure and  governance framework, fostering a culture where environmental responsibility is""
""paramount across all  levels of the company. This dedication is reinforced by our long-standing commitment to sustainability  oversight, beginning in 2000 with the institution of environmental performance oversight by our board  of directors. Recognizing that sustainability is a shared responsibility, we have integrated it into the  core operations of every business area, ensuring these principles are woven into the fabric of our daily  activities and guide our collective efforts. Sustainability""
""is integrated into  our governance processes and  initiatives. Learn more in the  Governance section of   the Appendix.  2024 Sustainability Report | 63 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Governance We identified three priorities crucial to our vision of being the trusted  and preferred provider of the energy our customers need: 31%      female board 92%    independent board 30%    of""
""long-term incentive executive  compensation awards based on  carbon emissions reduction Board composition will change following the 2025 Annual Meeting of   Shareholders  on May 21, 2025.  In 2000, we instituted oversight of environmental  performance by our board of directors. Since 2005,  environmental reductions and projects have been   tied to long-term incentives, and we were among   the first U.S. energy providers to tie carbon reduction   to executive compensation. Sustainability""
""Governance Structure  Our commitment to sustainability begins at the top. Our chairman,  president and CEO champions our sustainability efforts, ensuring  alignment with our overall corporate strategy. Our chief sustainability  officer oversees sustainability policies, including climate-related risk  management, and regularly briefs relevant board members.  By integrating sustainability across our organization, we are creating a  safe, reliable, cost-effective and increasingly clean energy""
""future. Materiality Assessment  Our top priority is continuing to lead our communities in transitioning  to cleaner energy in ways that will benefit our customers and the  environment for years to come. Xcel Energy conducts a comprehensive  materiality assessment every three years to identify and prioritize the  sustainability issues most relevant to our business and stakeholders.   The 2022 assessment, completed in accordance with the Global  Reporting Initiative Standards, engaged key""
""stakeholders — including  investors, leaders and policymakers — to ensure alignment with  evolving expectations and industry best practices. This assessment  informed our sustainability strategy and reporting, identifying 20 key  topics with the greatest impact to our operations and communities.  The next materiality assessment is underway, and work will continue  into 2026.  Our customers Our people Our performance Enhance their  experience with   Xcel Energy and keep  their bills as low as""
""possible. Provide a rewarding  employee experience  with development,  engagement and  growth. Deliver excellent  operational, financial  and clean energy  performance.  2024 Sustainability Report | 64 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Department/Committee Role in Sustainability Governance Executive Leadership  Strategy execution including sustainability initiatives. Oversight of all""
""departments and implementation. Balance reliability, resiliency,  affordability and environmental impact. Determine corporate scorecard that includes sustainability metrics.   Audit Committee*  Oversight of corporate compliance related to ethics and business conduct.  Finance Committee*   Oversight of clean energy investments, investor relations, affordability and financial health.  Governance, Compensation and  Nominating (GCN) Committee*   Primary oversight of sustainability issues and risks.""
""Policy development, adherence and disclosure regarding sustainability matters. Oversight  of executive compensation, Code of Conduct and political contributions. Annual sustainability briefing and workforce strategy review,  including workplace culture initiatives.  Operations, Nuclear, Environmental  and Safety (ONES) Committee*   Oversight of environmental strategy and performance. Employee and contractor safety. Customer service and operational performance. Risk  management related to climate""
""change, physical security, cybersecurity and public safety.  Customer Solutions and Care  Energy efficiency, electrification, customer programs, satisfaction and economic development.  External Affairs and Policy  Sustainability strategy, governance, reporting, environmental strategy, energy and public policy, and political contribution disclosures.  Financial Operations  Capital project governance, compliance, budget and cost management, affordability, investor relations and disclosure, and""
""Planning  Long-term, coordinated planning for natural gas, electric generation, transmission and distribution systems.  Operating Companies  Sustainability strategy implementation at the local level. Understanding of local perspectives and priorities. Shaping of regulatory  frameworks for cleaner energy. Delivery of community giving and volunteer programs.  Operations  Power production, environmental performance, regulatory efforts for clean energy transition, customer service, safety,""
""affordability, reliability  and resilience.  Risk and Audit  Risk management and corporate auditing.   Supply Chain  Sustainable procurement practices, vendor sustainability assessments and integrating environmental and social considerations into the  supply chain.  *Board committee See 2025 Proxy Statement for board skills.  2024 Sustainability Report | 65 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |""
""Appendix Reach Net Zero Responsibly  • Low-carbon transition and technology • Air quality • Water management • Waste management and circular economy • Biodiversity and land use       Value People • Health, safety and wellness • Culture and belonging • Talent attraction, development and retention • Workforce engagement and management   Strengthen Communities • Energy affordability • Reliability and resiliency • Product and service innovation • Cyber and physical security • Community vitality •""
""Environmental justice* Operate with Integrity  • Ethics and compliance • Sustainability governance and risk management* • Public policy and advocacy • Supply chain • Financial health*   Sustainable Development Goals Alignment We align our 20 focus areas with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), supported within each of  the four pillars of our sustainability strategy. We also regularly review targets and indicators for each SDG to ensure they  match our material topics. We""
""identified these key topics through our materiality assessment. *New topics added through 2022 materiality assessment.  2024 Sustainability Report | 66 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Public Policy  Our commitment to a large-scale clean energy future is underpinned  by strategic and collaborative partnerships with local, state and federal  entities, where policy leadership is a""
""foundational imperative. It is our  fundamental duty to advocate for the interests of our customers and  communities, ensuring a clean energy future that works for everyone we  serve. Our dedicated professionals actively engage in critical discussions  on state and federal policies to inform decisions that may impact our  business and, most importantly, our customers.   2024 Sustainability Report | 67 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |""
""Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Policy Engagement  Public policy leadership is not simply a component of our strategy; it  is fundamental to ensuring the alignment of our mutual objectives.  Proactive, cooperative engagement with policymakers and elected  officials is essential to achieving meaningful progress. It allows us  to champion regulations and policies that advance our clean energy  vision while safeguarding the delivery of safe, reliable and affordable  service for our""
""customers.   Legislative Highlights  Federal: We actively engage in federal conversations and policies  directly and through partnerships with industry trade groups. We  share our expertise with policymakers and elected officials to better  inform the decisions around utility regulation, building costs, energy  assistance and more.  In 2025, key priority areas for the company include support for the  continued implementation of the IRA, wildfire mitigation policy and  permitting reform. These""
""collaborations are crucial for advocating for  federal regulatory and policy outcomes that advance clean energy  while ensuring reliable, low-cost service.   State: The states we serve are important partners in our clean energy  journey. In 2025, we monitored and engaged on a variety of bills that  could impact reliability and affordability for our customers and the  clean energy transition. A few areas of engagement include wildfire  prevention and relief, pathways for new 24/7 carbon-free""
""technology,  grid resiliency and emerging issues like managing large load growth.  North Dakota passed legislation on wildfire prevention plans and  liability standards as well as a study on the impact of large energy  consumers on the electrical grid. In Colorado, nuclear power is now  classified as a clean energy resource, meaning it can contribute to  the state's efforts to achieve its greenhouse gas reduction goals.   Xcel Energy partners closely with state legislators to create and  support""
""policy initiatives that further innovation in clean, firm 24/7  technologies that will be needed in decades to come. For example,  the next generation of nuclear power could be integral to achieving  our 2050 aspiration as we work to deliver reliable, carbon-free energy  to our customers. As of April 2025, nearly every state where we have  operations introduced policies to support advanced nuclear, ranging  from siting studies to funding to new state authorities.   Trade Associations    Our""
""Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA) of 2021, which created  historic federal investments in clean energy and climate initiatives.  To date, we have received $465 million in DOE grant funding (subject  to ongoing negotiations) for our states and customers and remain  committed to supporting these vital programs. North Dakota has taken a significant leadership position in wildfire  prevention and nuclear energy policy, both of which align with   Xcel Energy’s commitments to keeping our customers safe""
""and the   lights on. It’s exciting to see North Dakota gain national attention in   this space and speaks to the dynamic work happening in the state.  — Tony Grindberg, director,  North Dakota State Affairs and Business Relations  2024 Sustainability Report | 68 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Trade Association Position on Climate Change How We Engage Edison Electric Institute  (EEI)""
""EEI’s member companies are leading a clean energy transformation and are committed to getting the  energy they provide as clean and fast as they can without compromising customer affordability and  reliability. EEI’s member companies continue to work to reduce carbon emissions in our sector and are  committed to helping other sectors — particularly transportation and industrial — transition to clean,  efficient electric energy. This is just the start. With investments in new technologies and the""
""right policies,  we can do even more to build a cleaner, stronger economy together.  Multiple subject matter experts, including Xcel Energy’s chairman, president  and CEO, participate in EEI committees, including CEO task forces on wildfire,  sustainability, climate and clean air.  American Gas  Association (AGA) The AGA is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions through smart innovation, new and  modernized infrastructure, and advanced technologies that maintain reliable, resilient and""
""affordable  energy service choices for consumers. America’s natural gas industry is essential to achieving a net-zero  emissions future. Climate change is a defining challenge across the globe, and natural gas, natural gas  utilities and the delivery infrastructure are critical to meeting our nation’s greenhouse gas emissions  reduction goals. By including natural gas, advanced fuels and our world-class infrastructure, AGA can  expand its opportunities to slash emissions, unleash greater""
""innovation and enhance energy reliability.  Xcel Energy’s executive vice president, Customer Delivery, is on the AGA Board  of Directors. Multiple subject matter experts participate in more than 40 AGA  committees, including climate and sustainability, physical and cybersecurity,  operations safety regulation and distribution integrity management/transmission  integrity management. Nuclear Energy Institute  (NEI) We need deep decarbonization to hit climate goals. Nuclear energy can help get us""
""there. As our largest  source of clean energy, nuclear is critical to reducing emissions. Studies have shown an affordable,  reliable clean energy future includes a significant share of nuclear energy. Because nuclear energy can  generate carbon-free electricity 24/7/365, unlike any other form of energy, it is essential to creating our  clean energy future. Xcel Energy’s chairman, president and CEO is on the NEI Board of Directors and is  an executive committee member for NEI. Our COO is on the""
""coalition of the Nuclear  Strategic Industry Advisory Committee.  American Clean Power  Association (ACP)  ACP is the leading voice of today’s multi-tech clean energy industry, representing energy storage, wind,  utility-scale solar, clean hydrogen and transmission companies. It is committed to meeting America’s  energy and national security goals and building our economy with fast-growing, low-cost and reliable  domestic power. Xcel Energy’s chief financial officer (CFO) is on the ACP Board of""
""Directors. Multiple  subject matter experts participate in ACP committees.  Alliance for  Transportation  Electrification (ATE) The Alliance for Transportation Electrification is a broad and diverse coalition of organizations  that advocate before state and provincial decision-makers for an acceleration of transportation  electrification. ATE believes a multi-stakeholder coalition educating customers about the many benefits  of transportation electrification is vital for success. EV programs""
""should be designed in a way to advance a  reliable, equitable and satisfying charging experience for residential EV owners and business and   fleet customers. Xcel Energy’s vice president, Customer Energy & Transportation Solutions, is on the  ATE Board of Directors. Subject matter experts participate in the ATE’s committees  and taskforces, including co-chair of the rate design task force.  2024 Sustainability Report | 69 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |""
""Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Our engagement provides opportunities for constructive dialogue and  the sharing of our perspective. For example:   • In 2018, we became the first investor-owned utility in the U.S. to set  a carbon-free goal, which inspired more than 40 utilities to follow  in our footsteps and set their own clean energy goals.  • We continue to be instrumental in shaping and maintaining  the AGA and EEI Sustainability Reporting""
""Template, a voluntary  reporting framework that standardizes environmental data  disclosure for U.S. electric and natural gas utilities.  • In 2021, we joined EEI and other national organizations in  launching the Carbon-Free Technology Initiative, a coalition  advocating for federal support in development, demonstration   and deployment of technologies.  Political Contributions and Lobbying Xcel Energy is committed to responsible political engagement that  aligns with our values and supports""
""our clean energy transition. Our  political contributions are governed by a comprehensive policy that is  reviewed and approved by our GCN Committee. This policy outlines  strict guidelines for contributions at the federal, state and local  levels. Xcel Energy's board of directors, leadership and employees  must comply with all federal laws that restrict the use of corporate  funds for political contributions related to federal elections. When  discussing company matters, they are responsible""
""deepened my understanding of the political process and provided opportunities for me to talk with   my state representatives about issues important to Xcel Energy and to me.”  — Liz Wolf Green, senior communications consultant    2024 Sustainability Report | 70 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Supply Chain Partnerships  With our service footprint spanning eight states, Xcel Energy is""
""committed to supporting economic growth and development  that strengthens our communities, placing a high priority  on purchasing goods and services where we operate. Our  relationships with suppliers are strategic and based on high  standards of business conduct, collaboration, transparency and  shared values, like sustainability. From global enterprises to small,  locally owned businesses, we work with thousands of suppliers  that help deliver safe, clean, reliable and low-cost energy to  our""
""customers.    Supply Chain   Economic Impact    $8.2B total spend $4.4B spent with local businesses $827M spent with small businesses  2024 Sustainability Report | 71 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Responsible Sourcing  Our robust supply chain fosters opportunities for a wide range of  businesses. By partnering with accountable, sustainable suppliers, we  can contribute to the success""
""of local economies, support risk-aware  supply chain practices and uphold the values core to our business.  Our program helps us secure products essential to our clean energy  vision while inviting unique perspectives and experiences of skilled  professionals that strengthen our operations. This commitment  goes beyond traditional considerations and actively seeks to engage  businesses that bring distinct value to our business. Building  relationships with a broad spectrum of businesses allows""
""$28.7M North Dakota:    $574.3M South Dakota:   $8.6M Texas:            $1.5B Wisconsin:        $505.6M Total:          $4.8B  2024 Sustainability Report | 72 Sustainable Supply Chain Program   Our suppliers are trusted partners who play a crucial role in   Xcel Energy’s operations and our path to a carbon-free future. By  providing resources, training and tools, we aim to create a more  sustainable and responsible supply chain that enhances reliability,  reduces costs and supports long-term""
""success.  In 2024, we launched our Sustainable Supply Chain program —  overseen by the vice president of Supply Chain — focused on supplier  collaboration. We engaged 119 suppliers representing more than 75%  of our annual spend, conducting sustainability assessments, providing  benchmarking data and holding supplier training events. We also:    • Partnered with peers: In 2024, we joined the Sustainable Supply  Chain Alliance to collaborate with electric utilities and suppliers to  share best""
""practices and advance sustainability in the industry. • Created an online resource hub: We launched a new supplier  webpage to offer sustainability tips, labor best practices and  business conduct resources. • Managed supply chain risks: We identified solar and battery  supply chains as higher risk areas for labor practices and  strengthened contract requirements to align with international  labor standards and expectations.  • Built internal capacity: We held sustainability training events""
""to  build expertise across our entire supply chain team.  In 2025, we will integrate sustainability into our request for proposal  evaluation criteria, ensuring both small and large businesses can meet  these standards, and continue our supplier training series with events  focused on implementation of specific ethical and sustainable policies  and practices.  Safe, Strategic and Resilient Management   Our Supply Chain organization oversees sourcing, procurement,  materials management and fleet""
""organization. By strategically categorizing our spending into  35 categories and more than 800 subcategories, we enhance our  negotiation leverage and improve operational stability and efficiency.  Our supply chain governance, including our Supplier Code of   Conduct, helps ensure our partners operate safely and comply   with all regulations, laws and internal standards.             Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with""
""Integrity      |      Appendix Our Sustainable Supply Chain program's goal is to support suppliers  in pursuing sustainable and responsible business practices — like  Itron, our primary supplier of electric and gas meters. At Itron, we are committed to creating a more resourceful world   and are proud to collaborate with like-minded organizations such  as Xcel Energy, said Marina Donovan, vice president of Global  Marketing, ESG and Public Affairs. Together, we share a vision of  leveraging""
""innovation to drive sustainability and make a lasting,  positive impact in the communities we serve. As part of Itron’s  sustainability efforts, we’re focused on streamlining our supplier  ecosystem and regionalizing suppliers. We’ve reduced the number   of material suppliers to under 500, down from 1,500 two years   prior, and continue to reduce our direct supplier base. As a result,  we’re seeing improved operational performance along with   reduced carbon emissions, fossil fuel consumption""
""and other  environmental costs.   Our Supplier Code of Conduct is incorporated into our  standard contract language and addresses expectations  regarding the environment, ethics and corruption,  human rights, ethical mineral sourcing, responsible  sourcing and safety.  2024 Sustainability Report | 73 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Ethics and Compliance   Acting with integrity drives""
""our culture of compliance and  promotes ethical business conduct. We are committed to  conducting business in accordance with applicable laws,  regulations, company policies and our shared values.   Named one of the World’s   Most Ethical Companies®   by Ethisphere since 2020.  2024 Sustainability Report | 74 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Code of Conduct  Our Compliance program""
""Xcel Energy's Compliance Hotline is available 24 hours a day. Employees  can contact the hotline by phone or web and remain anonymous.  2024 Sustainability Report | 75 APPENDIX About this Report Forward-Looking Statements What You Can Do Glossary Governance       Position Statements and Policies  Compliance Activity Data Summary Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix  2024 Sustainability""
""Report | 76 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix About this Report Our sustainability reporting follows well-established standards.  This report primarily represents data through year-end 2024.  Information is current as of June 3, 2025. Publication Date: June 2025 Reporting Period: Jan. 1 to Dec. 31, 2024 Date of Previous Report: June 2024 (for 2023) Reporting Cycle: Annual Report Boundary:""
""Xcel Energy and its four regulated operating  companies Contact Point: sustainability@xcelenergy.com Xcel Energy is committed to sustainability reporting and  transparency. We have published an annual report on our  economic, environmental and social contributions since 2005.  Our 2024 Sustainability Report is based on 20 topics we identified  as important to stakeholders and our company. In this report,  these priorities are organized by the four pillars that make up our  sustainability""
""strategy: Reach Net Zero Responsibly, Value People,  Strengthen Communities and Operate with Integrity. Xcel Energy aligns its sustainability reporting with several  established frameworks to ensure transparency, consistency and  relevance for our stakeholders, including investors, customers  and policymakers. These frameworks provide structured, credible  approaches to disclosing sustainability performance.  • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): The most widely used  sustainability reporting""
""standard, GRI helps us communicate  our economic, environmental and social impacts in a way that is  accessible to a broad range of stakeholders. Please see our GRI index.  • Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB): SASB’s  industry-specific standards allow us to report material  sustainability factors that are most relevant to financial  performance and decision-making for investors in the electric and  natural gas utility sectors. Please see our SASB index.   • Task Force on""
""Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD):   Given the increasing importance of climate-related financial risks  and opportunities, we publish a dedicated report that aligns  with TCFD recommendations, helping stakeholders understand  how we manage climate-related risks in the transition to a  net-zero future. Please see our TCFD report, Managing Risks  Opportunities in the Net-Zero Future. • United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): We  map our sustainability initiatives to the""
""SDGs to demonstrate how  our efforts contribute to global challenges such as clean energy,  climate action and responsible resource management.  • Edison Electric Institute (EEI) and American Gas Association  (AGA) Reporting Template: This industry-specific template  enables us to provide consistent and comparable sustainability  data for investors and other stakeholders focused on the energy  sector. Please see our EEI and AGA Template.    Xcel Energy’s sustainability reporting includes""
""policies, position  statements and other company reports as well as our past  Corporate Responsibility and Triple Bottom Line reports going back  to 2005. All these materials are available in our Reporting Library. For questions about this report, please email   sustainability@xcelenergy.com.  2024 Sustainability Report | 77 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Forward-Looking Statements""
""including our nuclear generation facilities and other  utility operations; successful long-term operational  planning; commodity risks associated with energy  markets and production; rising energy prices and fuel  costs; qualified employee workforce and third-party  contractor factors; violations of our Codes of Conduct;  our ability to recover costs and our subsidiaries’  ability to recover costs from customers; changes in  regulation; reductions in our credit ratings and the cost  of""
""geopolitical events, including war and acts of terrorism;  cybersecurity threats and data security breaches;  seasonal weather patterns; changes in environmental  laws and regulations; climate change and other weather  events; natural disaster and resource depletion,  including compliance with any accompanying legislative  and regulatory changes; costs of potential regulatory  penalties; regulatory changes and/or limitations related  to the use of natural gas as an energy source; challenging""
""labor market conditions and our ability to attract and  retain a qualified workforce; and our ability to execute  on our strategies or achieve expectations related to  sustainability matters including as a result of evolving  legal, regulatory and other standards, processes and  assumptions, the pace of scientific and technological  developments, increased costs, the availability of  requisite financing and changes in carbon markets.  2024 Sustainability Report | 78 Reach Net Zero Responsibly""
""|      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix What You Can Do Residential  Install a smart thermostat and set it to automatically adjust your  temperature.  During summer months, set your thermostat to 78°F while home. During winter months, set your thermostat to between   65°F and 70°F while home.   Switch to LEDs, especially ENERGY STAR®-qualified products. Turn off lights when you leave a room. Rinse dishes and wash clothes in""
""cool water. Clean your dryer’s exhaust vent and lint trap. Fix leaky faucets. Replace dirty air filters.  Draw shades or blinds to keep rooms cooler in the summer and  warmer in the winter. Run ceiling fans counterclockwise in the summer to circulate   cooler, conditioned air. In the winter, run fans clockwise to push   warm air down. Commercial, Industrial and Small Business  Upgrade to energy-efficient lighting and integrate occupancy   sensors and timers. Utilize smart controls for lighting,""
""heating and cooling systems. Enable power-saving modes on all office equipment and unplug  equipment or use smart power strips to eliminate phantom   energy use.  Set water heaters to 120°F.  Regularly clean and maintain machinery, compressors and appliances. Seal doors, windows and ductwork and insulate walls, ceilings   and floors. Invest in ENERGY STAR® or high-efficiency rated equipment. Consider variable speed drives for motors and pumps to adjust   power based on demand. Shift energy-""
""intensive operations to off-peak hours. Analyze energy data to identify trends and optimize usage. Regularly assess energy usage to identify inefficiencies. More Resources Energy savings tips Residential savings Business savings Bill and energy assistance Empower Suite We need our customers and communities to help us achieve our clean energy goals and build a more sustainable  future for all. Here are some simple tips to reduce your carbon footprint.  2024 Sustainability Report | 79 Reach Net""
""Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Glossary A Advanced Grid: An integrated system that includes new tools and  technology to give customers more control over their energy use,  creating a better experience with improved reliability and faster  outage restoration while delivering cleaner energy and helping keep  bills low. A key part of our advanced grid is the smart electric meter. Advanced Mobile""
""Leak Detection (AMLD): The use of advanced  technologies and methods to detect methane leaks quickly and  accurately, enhancing the ability to prevent and mitigate emissions.  AMLD more accurately quantifies emissions released to the  atmosphere. Advanced Nuclear Reactors (ANR): A new generation of nuclear  reactors designed to improve safety, efficiency and sustainability  while supporting clean energy goals. Includes small module reactors,  high-temperature gas-cooled reactors, sodium-cooled""
""fast reactors  and molten salt reactors.  American Clean Power (ACP): An organization that advocates for  clean energy policies and promotes the growth of renewable energy  in the U.S. American Gas Association (AGA): A trade organization representing  natural gas utilities and advocating for the safe, efficient and  environmentally responsible delivery of natural gas. B Beneficial Electrification: The process of replacing direct fossil   fuel use with electricity in a way that reduces overall""
""emissions   and energy costs. Biomass: Organic material that comes from plants and animals and is  a renewable source of energy when used to produce heat, electricity  or fuel. It includes wood, agricultural residues and other biological  substances that can be burned or converted into biofuels. Business Resource Group (BRG): Employee-led groups within   an organization that support professional development and   cultural awareness. C Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS): A technology aimed at""
""capturing  carbon dioxide emissions produced from the use of fossil fuels in  electricity generation and storing it underground to prevent it from  entering the atmosphere. Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO₂e): A standard unit for measuring  carbon footprints. It expresses the impact of different greenhouse  gases in terms of the amount of CO₂ that would create the same  amount of warming. This allows for the comparison of the  contributions of various gases, such as methane and nitrous oxide, to""
""global warming. Carbon Emissions Intensity: A measure of the amount of carbon  dioxide emissions produced per unit of output or activity. This can be  applied to different scales, such as the emissions per kilowatt-hour of  electricity generated, per unit of GDP or per mile traveled by a vehicle.  Lowering carbon emissions intensity is a key goal in efforts to reduce  overall greenhouse gas emissions. Carbon-Free Electricity: Energy sources that produce no carbon  emissions, such as wind, solar,""
""hydro and nuclear power.  Carbon Offsets: Following high-quality standards, credits purchased  to compensate for emissions produced elsewhere, typically  through projects that reduce or sequester an equivalent amount of  greenhouse gases. Certified Renewable Percentage: The proportion of energy supplied  by renewable sources that is certified by an independent authority. Circularity: An economic system aimed at eliminating waste and the  continual use of resources by creating a closed-loop""
""system where  products, materials and resources are reused, repaired, refurbished  and recycled for as long as possible, thus extending their lifecycle and  minimizing environmental impact. Clean Fuels: Fuels that produce fewer pollutants and greenhouse  gases compared to conventional fuels. Coal Ash: A byproduct of burning coal for electricity, which contains  hazardous substances and requires careful management to prevent  environmental contamination. Coal Combustion Residuals (CCR) Rule: A""
""regulation governing the  disposal of coal combustion residuals (coal ash) to protect public  health and the environment from the risks associated with improper  management. Common Ground Alliance (CGA): A nonprofit organization dedicated  to preventing damage to underground infrastructure by promoting  effective damage prevention practices. Community Solar Garden: A shared solar energy program that  allows residents, businesses, nonprofits and municipalities to  subscribe to a centrally located""
""solar array without needing to install  solar panels on their own property. Subscribers receive bill credits for  the electricity generated by their share of the solar garden, reducing  their energy costs while supporting the transition to cleaner energy.  2024 Sustainability Report | 80 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Conservation Improvement Program (CIP): A program designed to""
""promote energy efficiency and conservation.   Critical Risk Management (CRM): A systematic approach to  identifying, assessing, and mitigating critical risks to prevent  significant injuries and fatalities (SIF) within an organization. D Decarbonization: The process of reducing carbon dioxide emissions  resulting from human activity, with the aim of minimizing the impact  on climate change. Demand Side Management (DSM): Programs and strategies aimed at  controlling and reducing energy""
""consumption by end-users through  incentives, education and technology improvements. Department of Energy (DOE): The U.S. government department  responsible for policies regarding energy and the handling of nuclear  material. It is also involved in scientific research in the field. Dispatchable Resources: Energy generation resources that can be  turned on, off or adjusted in response to real-time electricity demand.  These resources include fossil fuel power plants, peaking plants  (which""
""operate during periods of high demand), hydropower with  reservoir storage, emerging technologies like advanced nuclear and  battery energy storage systems (BESS). Distributed Energy Resources (DERs): Small-scale units of local  generation connected to the grid at distribution level, including  rooftop solar with behind-the-meter batteries, electric vehicles and  chargers, electric water heaters, smart buildings and their controls,  and flexible commercial and industrial loads. E Edison Electric""
""Institute (EEI): An association that represents all U.S.  investor-owned electric companies and advocates for policies that  will help secure a reliable and sustainable energy future. Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI): An independent, nonprofit  organization that conducts research and development related to the  generation, delivery and use of electricity for the benefit of the public. Electric Sector Coordinating Council (ESCC): A collaborative effort  between the electric power industry""
""and government to enhance the  security and resilience of the electric grid. Electric Vehicle (EV): A vehicle that is powered entirely or partially by  electricity, typically using energy stored in rechargeable batteries. Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA):  A federal law designed to help local communities protect public  health, safety and the environment from chemical hazards. Energy Efficiency: Using less energy to perform the same task  or produce the same result,""
""thereby reducing energy waste and  increasing cost savings. Enhanced Powerline Safety Settings (EPSS): Xcel Energy applies  EPSS to certain power lines to allow us to enhance public safety  during periods of high fire risk. When EPSS is activated, power lines  are more sensitive and can instantly stop the flow of energy if an  object touches the line.    Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA): A process used to  evaluate the environmental consequences of proposed actions before  decisions are""
""made, ensuring potential impacts are understood and  mitigated accordingly. Environmental Justice: The fair treatment and meaningful  involvement of all people regardless of race, color, national origin  or income with respect to the development, implementation and  enforcement of environmental laws, regulations and policies. Environmental Management System (EMS): A framework that helps  an organization achieve its environmental goals through consistent  control of its operations, which can also""
""improve its environmental  performance. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA): An independent executive  agency of the U.S. federal government tasked with environmental  protection matters. Equal Opportunity Employer (EEO): A company that hires  employees without discrimination based on race, gender, age,  religion or other protected characteristics.  Equity Stakeholder Advisory Group (ESAG): A group of  representatives from various stakeholder communities that   provides guidance and input on""
""equity-related issues to ensure   a fair decision-making process. F Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC): An independent  agency that regulates the interstate transmission of natural gas, oil  and electricity as well as natural gas and hydropower projects. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA): A U.S. law that prohibits  companies and their employees from bribing foreign government  officials to obtain or retain business. Fuel Switching: Replacing high-emission energy sources, such with""
""cleaner alternatives, such as hydrogen for coal and heat pumps for  gas furnaces, to reduce emissions.  G Geographic Information System (GIS): A system designed to  capture, store, manipulate, analyze, manage and present spatial  or geographic data often used in environmental and resource  management. Gigawatt (GW): A unit of power equal to one billion watts commonly  used to measure the output of large power plants or the consumption  of large cities. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): An""
""international independent  organization that helps businesses, governments and other  organizations understand and communicate their impacts on issues  such as climate change, human rights and corruption.  2024 Sustainability Report | 81 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Green Hydrogen: Hydrogen produced using renewable energy  sources through electrolysis with no carbon emissions.""
""Hydrogen  can be used in fuel cells or blended with natural gas in existing power  plants to provide dispatchable, carbon-free electricity.  Greenhouse Gases (GHGs): Gases that trap heat in the atmosphere,  contributing to the greenhouse effect and climate change. Common  GHGs include carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide  (N2O). I Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC): The United  Nations body for assessing the science related to climate change,  providing""
""policymakers with regular assessments on the state of  knowledge on climate change. International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS): A set of  accounting standards developed by the International Accounting  Standards Board (IASB) that aim to bring transparency, accountability  and efficiency to financial markets around the world by providing a  common language for business affairs. J Just Transition: A framework developed by the labor movement to  encompass a range of social interventions""
""needed to secure workers'  rights and livelihoods when economies are shifting to sustainable  production. K Kilowatt (kW): A unit of power equal to one thousand watts often  used to measure the electricity consumption of individual appliances  or homes. L Legacy Manufactured Natural Gas Plant: An older facility that  produced natural gas from coal, oil or other feedstocks through a  chemical process, often leaving behind environmental contamination. Letter of Non-Compliance (LON): A formal""
""notification issued  to a facility or entity indicating it has not complied with specific  environmental regulations or permit conditions. Local Distribution Company (LDC): A company that owns and  operates the local network for delivering natural gas to consumers  within a specific geographic area. Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Programs (LIHEAPs):  Federal programs that assist low-income households with their home  energy needs, including bill payment assistance and energy crisis""
""intervention. M Materiality Assessment: A process used by organizations to identify  and prioritize sustainability issues most significant to their business  and stakeholders. Megawatt (MW): A unit of power equal to one million watts  commonly used to measure the output of power plants or the  consumption of large facilities. Microgrid: A localized group of electricity sources and loads that  can operate independently from the traditional, centralized grid.  Microgrids enhance energy reliability""
""and resilience. Midcontinent Independent System Operator (MISO): A regional  transmission organization that ensures reliable operation of the  electric grid, facilitates electricity market transactions and conducts  transmission planning across several states in the central U.S. and  parts of Canada. Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA): A state agency  responsible for monitoring environmental quality, offering technical  and financial assistance, and enforcing environmental regulations in""
""Minnesota. N National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL): A national  laboratory of the U.S. Department of Energy that focuses on research  and development in renewable energy and energy efficiency  technologies. Natural Gas Innovation Act (NGIA): Legislation aimed at promoting  innovation and investment in natural gas technologies to enhance  sustainability and reduce emissions in Minnesota.  Natural Gas Sustainability Initiative (NGSI): An initiative that  promotes sustainable practices and""
""performance standards for the  natural gas industry, aiming to reduce environmental impacts and  enhance transparency. Natural Heritage Information System (NHIS): A system that  manages data on rare species and natural communities, helping to  guide conservation efforts and land-use planning. Net Zero: A process of balancing the amount of greenhouse gas  emissions reductions where possible and offsetting the remaining  emissions by removing an equivalent amount from the atmosphere.  Nuclear""
""Energy Institute (NEI): The policy organization of the  nuclear technologies industry, promoting the beneficial uses of  nuclear energy and advocating for policies that support its growth  and safety. P Paris Climate Agreement: An international treaty adopted in 2015  that aims to limit global warming to well below 2°C, with efforts to  keep it below 1.5°C, by reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Per- and Polyfluoroalkyl Substances (PFAS): A group of man-made  chemicals, also called “forever""
""chemicals,” that are persistent in the  environment and human body.  2024 Sustainability Report | 82 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Political Action Committee (PAC): A group that allows organizations  to engage in the democratic process in a structured, transparent  manner by supporting candidates and policies that align with their  industry’s priorities and values.  Polychlorinated""
""Biphenyls (PCBs): A group of man-made organic  chemicals used in industrial and commercial applications, now  banned due to their environmental persistence and potential   health risks. Power Purchase Agreement (PPA): A long-term contract between an  energy producer and buyer for the purchase of electricity, often from  renewable energy sources.  Protected Areas Database of the United States (PAD-US): A  comprehensive database of protected lands in the U.S., managed by  the U.S. Geological""
""Survey (USGS) to support conservation planning  and research. Public Safety Power Shutoff (PSPS): An event when Xcel Energy  turns off power in certain areas to prevent wildfires during especially  dangerous weather conditions.  Public Utilities Commission (PUC): A regulatory agency that  oversees the provision of utility services such as electricity, gas and  water, ensuring consumers receive safe, reliable and reasonably  priced services. R Refuse-Derived Fuel (RDF): Fuel produced from various""
""types of  waste, excluding hazardous materials, which can be used for energy  recovery through combustion. Renewable Energy: Energy derived from natural sources that are  replenished at a faster rate than consumed, such as solar, wind,  geothermal and hydroelectric power. Renewable Energy Credit (REC): A market-based instrument that  represents the property rights to the environmental, social and other  non-power attributes of renewable electricity generation. Renewable Energy Standard (RES): A""
""policy that requires a certain  percentage of electricity sold by utilities to come from renewable  energy sources.  Renewable Natural Gas (RNG): Biogas that has been upgraded to a  quality similar to fossil natural gas and can be used interchangeably  with it, often derived from organic waste sources such as landfills and  livestock operations. Resource Plans: Strategic plans developed by utility companies to  forecast future energy demand and identify the resources needed  to meet that demand""
""sustainably, often including renewable energy  sources and efficiency measures. S Scope 1, 2 and 3 Emissions: Categories used to define and measure  a company's direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions. Scope  1 includes direct emissions from owned sources; scope 2 covers  indirect emissions from the use of purchased electricity; and scope 3  encompasses all other indirect emissions, such as purchased power  sold to our customers and customer natural gas emissions. Smart Electric Meter: An""
""electronic device that records energy  consumption in intervals and communicates this information to the  utility for monitoring and billing, enabling more efficient energy  management. Southwest Power Pool (SPP): A nonprofit corporation that manages  the electric grid and wholesale power market for the central U.S. Sustainability: The practice of meeting current needs without  compromising the ability of future generations to meet their  own needs, encompassing environmental, social and""
""economic  dimensions. Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB): An independent  nonprofit organization that sets standards to guide the disclosure   of financially material sustainability information by companies to  their investors. Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF): A type of biofuel used to power  aircraft that has a lower carbon footprint compared to conventional  jet fuel often derived from sustainable feedstocks like waste oils   or crops. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): A""
""collection of 17 global  goals set by the United Nations General Assembly in 2015 designed  to be a blueprint to achieve a better and more sustainable future for  all by 2030. T Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD): An  organization established by the Financial Stability Board to develop  voluntary, consistent climate-related financial risk disclosures for use  by companies in providing information to investors, lenders, insurers  and other stakeholders. The TCFD""
""recommendations aim to improve  and increase the reporting of climate-related financial information.  As of Jan. 1, 2024, TCFD has been disbanded, with its responsibilities  transferred to the International Financial Reporting Standards  Foundation, which oversees the International Sustainability  Standards Board (ISSB). The Climate Registry (TCR): A nonprofit organization that provides  standards and tools for businesses and governments to measure,  report and verify their greenhouse gas""
""emissions accurately. Toxics Release Inventory (TRI): A resource that provides information  about the release of specific toxic chemicals by facilities in the U.S.,  as required under the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to- Know Act. U United States Geological Survey (USGS): A scientific agency of  the U.S. government that studies landscape, natural resources  and natural hazards, providing data to support environmental  management and policymaking. U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS):""
""An agency of the federal  government that manages and conserves fish, wildlife and natural  habitats, ensuring their protection and sustainability.  2024 Sustainability Report | 83 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix  V Value of Volunteer Time: Based on Independent Sector's value of volunteer time of  $31.80 per hour (updated April 2024). Virtual Power Plant (VPP): An advanced energy""
""management system that integrates  and controls a variety of distributed energy resources. These resources can include solar  panels, battery storage systems, electric vehicles and other energy-producing or energy- storing devices.    W Waste-to-Energy Plant: A facility that converts municipal solid waste into energy,  typically in the form of electricity or heat, through combustion or other processes. Wildfire Prevention: Strategies and actions taken to reduce the risk and impact of  wildfires,""
""including controlled burns, vegetation management and community planning.     2024 Sustainability Report | 84 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Governance Upholding strong corporate governance anchored in integrity and accountability ensures we continue  to advance toward our vision for a sustainable energy future. Our proven track record of strong financial  and operational performance""
""is rooted in a foundation of transparent corporate governance and  forward-thinking oversight. Our board of directors and executive management team not only provide  direct oversight of corporate sustainability and risk management, but they also lead with unwavering  integrity — setting the standard for responsible, ethical decision-making. Along with engaged leaders and  organizations across the company, we effectively manage risks and take advantage of opportunities, driving  strong""
""performance across a spectrum of corporate responsibility issues. In 2000, we instituted oversight of environmental performance by our board of directors and were among the  first U.S. energy providers to tie carbon reduction to executive compensation. We have provided a voluntary,  third-party verified annual greenhouse gas disclosure since 2005, longer than any other U.S. utility. Board Composition The Xcel Energy Board of Directors is committed to effective and independent oversight of""
""board creates a governance  structure that is both informed by real-world operational experience and strengthened by independent  oversight, fostering more agile and effective decision making. Committees Our board conducts its work through four committees comprised of independent directors.  Information about our corporate governance structure and processes, including sustainability oversight,  can be found on our investors website.  Corporate Compliance and Business Conduct Our board oversees""
""the Corporate Compliance and Business Conduct (CCBC) program, with key elements  delegated to the Audit and GCN Committees. A strong tone at the top is set by the CEO and executive  team, who champion our corporate values. The general counsel reports directly to the board regarding  compliance policies and issues. Our CCBC Council — leaders from every functional area — meet quarterly to  ensure information and best practices flow well across the company. Biodiversity  The ONES Committee annually""
""reviews our environmental performance, including wildlife, habitat and land  management strategy, and compliance. The COO reports to the CEO and oversees natural gas operations  and electric distribution and transmission, including land management and avian protection programs. The  executive vice president of Energy Supply and chief generation officer reports to the COO and is responsible  for the company’s environmental compliance. Community Relations and Economic Development The ONES""
""Committee oversees all aspects of Xcel Energy’s electric and natural gas operations. This includes  reviewing operating performance, metrics and regulatory compliance, which the company’s community  relations functions support. The group president for Utilities and chief customer officer reports to the CEO  and oversees the company’s four operating companies, whose presidents are responsible for state-level  community relations, economic development, regulatory and government affairs. Customer""
""Programs The ONES Committee oversees the performance of our electric and natural gas operations, including  customer programs. The group president of Utilities and chief customer officer reports to the CEO and  oversees our customer programs, marketing and customer service. Enterprise Risk Management   Xcel Energy’s executive management and the ONES Committee review risks at an enterprise level and  ensure appropriate risk management is included in the company’s strategy. All business areas are""
""assessment and  mitigation • Litigation risks • Financial risks, including  liquidity, credit, capital  market and insurance  risks • Executive compensation- related risks • Political activity risks • Environmental, social,  governance risks • Board and management  succession risks • Operating risks,  including safety, nuclear,  environmental, carbon,  electric and natural gas  operations, cybersecurity  and physical security, and  wildfire risks  2024 Sustainability Report | 85 Reach Net""
""Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix measures as part of their planning processes as well as quantification of the residual risk and updating  Risk Management on all the risks that have a potential financial, safety, environmental, operational or  reputational exposure. Environmental Management The ONES Committee oversees all operational aspects, which includes annually reviewing our  environmental""
""strategy, compliance performance and initiatives such as water resource strategy and  compliance, and waste management. The COO is responsible for environmental performance, compliance  and reporting, and the chief sustainability officer is responsible for environmental strategy and policy. The  COO reports to the CEO and the chief sustainability officer reports to the group president of Utilities and  chief customer officer. The senior vice president of Energy Supply, who reports to the COO, is""
""responsible  for our water resource strategy and compliance under oversight of the COO. Giving and Volunteerism  The Xcel Energy Foundation Board oversees charitable giving and volunteer programs. It includes directors  and officers, with Xcel Energy’s CEO as chair and president, the group president of Utilities and chief  customer officer, chief human resources officer, CFO and four operating company presidents. They meet  quarterly to review financial statements, set program policies and""
""approve the annual budget. Operations The ONES Committee oversees all aspects of operations and operational performance. The COO oversees  generation, electric distribution and transmission, and natural gas operations. The vice president of  Integrated Planning is responsible for system strategy and planning. The group president of Utilities and  chief customer officer oversees customer care, customer energy and transportation solutions, and external  affairs and policy. The chief human""
""resources officer oversees workforce strategy  and reports to the CEO. Public Policy Our board oversees public policy engagement and political participation. The GCN Committee annually  reviews the company’s policy, key lobbying activity, expenditures and contributions. The vice president  of External Affairs and Policy reports to the group president of Utilities and chief customer officer and is  responsible for Xcel Energy’s policy positions, strategy and political participation. Renewable""
""Energy and Innovation Our board oversees the pursuit of advanced energy technologies, with the Finance Committee overseeing  major investments, including those associated with clean energy. The CFO oversees Corporate  Development and the Innovation and Transformation Office and is responsible for developing and financing  renewable projects and contracting for purchased power. The COO is responsible for executing clean energy  and fuels projects and constructing and operating renewable""
""Committee oversees all aspects of operations and operational performance, including Supply  Chain. The vice president of Supply Chain is responsible for our sourcing strategy and procuring materials  and services under the oversight of the CFO, who reports to the CEO. Our Supplier Code of Conduct is  incorporated into our standard contract language and addresses expectations regarding the environment,  ethics and corruption, human rights, ethical mineral sourcing, responsible sourcing and""
""safety. Just like our  employee Code of Conduct, the supplier code outlines requirements associated with our core values and  describes expectations around protecting human rights and the environment and working ethically and  safely.   Sustainability The ONES Committee oversees our carbon reduction strategy and the GCN Committee oversees  sustainability. We are a founding member of The Climate Registry and a supporter of the Task Force  on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures. Our disclosures""
""align with the Global Reporting Initiative,  Sustainability Accounting Standards Board and United Nations Sustainable Development Goals  frameworks. Workplace Culture Our board and GCN Committee annually review and provide oversight of our workforce strategy, including  initiatives that foster a fair workplace. The chief human resources officer reports to the CEO and has overall  responsibility for these initiatives, which are implemented and managed by the director of Diversity, Equity,""
""Inclusion and Giving. Learn more on xcelenergy.com.  2024 Sustainability Report | 86 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Position Statements and Policies Code of Conduct Xcel Energy’s Code of Conduct and our values of Connected, Committed, Trustworthy  and Safe unite us as a company, from the newest employee to members of our board  of directors, regardless of role or location. We all have""
""a responsibility to use good  judgment, live our values and follow our Code of Conduct. Environmental Justice Position Statement Xcel Energy will approach environmental justice in a reasonable, proactive,   transparent and consistent manner in keeping with the company’s mission. As an  integral part of the communities we serve, we recognize our role in ensuring equitable  access to clean energy, reducing environmental burdens and fostering meaningful   community engagement.  Environmental Policy""
""Leading the clean energy transition is a business objective for Xcel Energy, and  environmental commitment is a key element of our corporate strategy. We strive to  enhance customer and shareholder value by advancing goals and programs that meet  or exceed current environmental standards and requirements. This policy provides  expectations for aligning business practices with corporate commitments to be an  environmental leader. Equal Employment Opportunity Policy Our continued success depends""
""Xcel Energy is committed to the advancement and protection of human rights in all our  operations, consistent with all U.S. human rights laws and regulations and the general  principles set forth in the International Labour Organization Conventions. Just Transition Position Statement Achieving 100% carbon-free electricity by 2050 requires the transition of our fossil fuel  generation fleet to cleaner energy sources. Plant closures may impact our employees  and local economies in terms of jobs""
""suppliers, vendors and their employees,  agents or subcontractors who provide goods and services to Xcel Energy and our affiliate  operating companies. Suppliers may not subcontract responsibilities without the prior  written permission of Xcel Energy.  2024 Sustainability Report | 87 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Compliance Activity  The EPA issued a Notice of Potential Violation""
""(NOV) to Cherokee Station for potential  noncompliance with the federal Coal Combustion Residuals (CCR) Rules found at  40 CFR Part 257, Subpart D (CCR Rules). The potential violations include 1) annual  groundwater monitoring report deficiencies regarding Field Groundwater Sampling Logs  and Statistical Reports, 2) statistical issues at the Cooling Tower Retention Pond and 3)  groundwater monitoring network inadequacies for the CCR Impoundments multi-unit  network system and the CTRP monitoring""
""network. Xcel Energy completed corrective  actions including installing additional groundwater monitoring wells and revising the  Annual Groundwater Monitoring and Corrective Action Reports (Annual Reports) for 2018  through 2022 to address EPA concerns with reporting insufficiencies.     The Texas Commission of Environmental Quality (TCEQ) issued a NOV to Jones Station  for exceedance of the carbon monoxide (CO) Maximum Allowable Emission Rate and  the monitor downtime limit for the fuel flow""
""meter. The facility identified these permit  deviations in the Title V semiannual  deviation report submitted to TCEQ in April 2024. To  prevent recurrence, the facility created alarms in the Continuous Emissions Monitoring  System to alert operations when fuel flow monitor downtime exceeds 4%, and the TCEQ  closed the deviation record for this item.     The TCEQ issued a NOV to Tolk Station for two exceedances of the carbon monoxide  (CO) Maximum Allowable Emission Rate and one deviation for""
""not reporting a missed  Method 9 emissions monitoring test. Xcel Energy completed a cause analysis, submitted  a corrected deviation report, provided additional training to facility personnel and  prepared a written corrective action plan to prevent recurrence.     The TCEQ issued a Notice of Enforcement to Tolk Station for an exceedance of the carbon  monoxide (CO) Maximum Allowable Emission Rate. The TCEQ review and investigation  of the alleged violation is ongoing. Xcel Energy will respond""
""to any information requests  associated with this exceedance, implement corrective action and prepare a written plan  to prevent recurrence, as may be required.     The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) issued a NOV to the Allen S. King Plant  for failing to notify the Minnesota Department of Public Safety Duty Officer of a release of  coal fly ash to pavement on March 1, 2022. As a result of the NOV, Xcel Energy conducted  a comprehensive review of the release incident, company spill""
""reporting protocols, and  ash composition data. The company committed to a Corrective Action that includes  conducting a review of the 500-pound coal fly ash reporting threshold with MPCA Water  Quality, Solid Waste and Spills contacts, or subject matter experts and revising the  reporting threshold value as may be required.        DATA SUMMARY Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix  2024""
""Sustainability Report | 89 Reach Net Zero Responsibly      |      Value People      |      Strengthen Communities      |      Operate with Integrity      |      Appendix Consistent CO2 reductions since 2007 5.1 GW, 26 coal units retired or converted through 2024. *2025 based on Jan-Feb actuals with balance of year Plexos forecast  2005 2010 2015 2020 2025 0 0.00% 20.00% CO2 (tons) Reduction (%) 40.00% 60.00% 80.00% 100.00% 40,000,000 CO2 Tons % from 2005 90,000,000 Great Recession Period of 2 GW""
""coal unit retirements,  adoption of higher state RE targets  Pandemic decline  then rebound  Carbon accounting change to  Carbon Serving Customers Favorable gas prices, coal plant  outages, mild weather 80,000,000  For company use only. Not for public distribution. Background on Greenhouse Gas Reporting Xcel Energy has a long history of transparent disclosure. We publicly report greenhouse gas emissions to track progress toward  our goal for both electricity and natural gas and annually verify""
""and publicly disclose GHG emissions through The Climate  Registry (TCR) for our electric and owned natural gas system emissions.  Our reporting is based on TCR's General Reporting Protocol and Electric Power Sector Protocol, which aligns with World  Resource Institute and ISO 14000 series standards. In 2007, we joined TCR as a founding member to help establish a consistent  standard for calculation, third-party verification and reporting, and have since verified our reporting following TCR's""
""standards  back to 2005. We are the only energy provider with consecutively verified data back to 2005, a baseline commonly used by  standards bodies.  We report progress toward our electric carbon reduction goals (80% by 2030 and 100% by 2050) based on carbon dioxide  emissions associated with the electricity we deliver to customers. When we have more electricity than we need, we sell into  wholesale markets. Because the energy from those sales does not serve our customers, we exclude those""
""carbon emissions in  their reporting.  Xcel Energy is currently working to expand our greenhouse gas reporting to accurately track progress in meeting our net-zero  vision for the natural gas business, which includes both methane and carbon dioxide from the delivery and customer use of  natural gas.  90 2024 Sustainability Report  For company use only. Not for public distribution. 2 2024 Progress Toward Carbon-Free Electricity  Xcel Energy's clean energy vision includes all the electricity that""
""serves our customers, including owned and purchased power.  The charts below show our 2024 energy mix and carbon dioxide emissions (short tons), companywide and by operating region,  compared to the 2005 baseline and 2030 projections. Carbon dioxide emissions are from electricity delivered to customers in  2024 and are considered preliminary until third-party verified (expected early 2026). Energy mix includes electricity produced  at Xcel Energy plants, purchased from others and supplied for""
""customers through Xcel Energy renewable energy choice  programs.  2005 Energy Mix – Xcel Energy 2024 Energy Mix – Xcel Energy 91 2024 Sustainability Report  For company use only. Not for public distribution. 2024 Progress Toward Carbon-Free Electricity  See Xcel Energy’s CO2 Emission Intensities Information Sheet for definitions and more information on our carbon intensities.  Region 2023 2024 (lbs/kWh) (lbs/kWh) PSCo 0.918 0.850 SPS 0.958 0.870 NSP 0.575 0.542 Region 2023 2024 (Mt/MWh)""
""(lbs/MWh) (Mt/MWh) (lbs/MWh) PSCo 0.422 930 0.384 846 SPS 0.434 957 0.394 868 NSP 0.246 543 0.224 493 Region 2023 2024 (Mt/MWh) (lbs/MWh) (Mt/MWh) (lbs/MWh) PSCo 0.427 940 0.388 855 SPS 0.434 957 0.394 868 NSP 0.251 553 0.226 498 Basic CO2 Emissions Intensity Scope 2 Market-Based Reporting CO2 Emissions Intensity  Residual Mix CO2 Emissions Intensity  92 2024 Sustainability Report  For company use only. Not for public distribution. Carbon Dioxide and Other Emissions - 2005 Xcel Energy PSCo NSP""
""SPS Carbon Dioxide (MT) 78,188,801 30,738,316 25,453,122 21,998,363 Carbon Dioxide (MT/Net MWh) 0.717 0.839 0.582 0.768 Owned and Purchased Generation Owned Generation *2005 SF6 emissions are not available for 2005 because Xcel Energy did not begin tracking SF6 emissions until 2011.  Xcel Energy PSCo NSP SPS MT /Net MWh MT /Net MWh MT /Net MWh MT /Net MWh Nitrogen Oxide  106,970 0.001388 31,352 0.001406 48,551 0.001471 27,067 0.001234 Sulfur Dioxide  129,719 0.001679 36,063 0.001618 54,851""
""0.001662 38,805 0.001769 Particulate Matter  6,403 0.000080 973 0.000044 3,013 0.000091 2,417 0.000110 kg /Net MWh kg /Net MWh kg /Net MWh kg /Net MWh Mercury  1,187 0.000015 252 0.000011 513 0.000016 423 0.000019 Lead  779 0.000010 187 0.000008 331 0.000010 260 0.000012 93 2024 Sustainability Report  For company use only. Not for public distribution. Carbon Dioxide and Other Emissions - 2023 Xcel Energy PSCo NSP SPS Carbon Dioxide (MT) 36,214,481 14,434,199 10,820,879 10,959,402 Carbon Dioxide""
""(MT/Net MWh) 0.358 0.417 0.262 0.432 CO2e Emissions from SF6 (lbs) 331,387,124 83,222,804 142,541,040 105,623,280 CO2e Emissions from SF6 (lbs/MWh) 3.27 2.41 3.46 4.16 Owned and Purchased Generation Owned Generation Xcel Energy PSCo NSP SPS MT /Net MWh MT /Net MWh MT /Net MWh MT /Net MWh Nitrogen Oxide  15,895 0.000239 4,394 0.000194 4,787 0.000164 6,714 0.000466 Sulfur Dioxide  22,083 0.000332 4,201 0.000185 2,277 0.000078 15,605 0.001084 Particulate Matter  1,403 0.000021 373 0.000016 427""
""0.000015 602 0.000042 kg /Net MWh kg /Net MWh kg /Net MWh kg /Net MWh Mercury  83 0.000001 30 0.000001 26 0.000001 26 0.000002 Lead  161 0.000002 38 0.000002 45 0.000002 78 0.000005 94 2024 Sustainability Report  For company use only. Not for public distribution. Carbon Dioxide and Other Emissions - 2024 Xcel Energy PSCo NSP SPS Carbon Dioxide (MT) 33,632,366 13,145,222 9,846,626 10,640,518 Carbon Dioxide (MT/Net MWh) 0.329 0.378 0.244 0.392 CO2e Emissions from SF6 (lbs) 185,055,920 81,409,170""
""40,443,500 63,203,250 CO2e Emissions from SF6 (lbs/MWh) 1.81 2.34 1.00 2.33 Owned and Purchased Generation Owned Generation Xcel Energy PSCo NSP SPS MT /Net MWh MT /Net MWh MT /Net MWh MT /Net MWh Nitrogen Oxide  14,661 0.000221 3,846 0.000179 3,820 0.000131 6,995 0.000454 Sulfur Dioxide  15,976 0.000240 3,263 0.000152 2,060 0.000071 10,654 0.000691 Particulate Matter  1,020 0.000015 249 0.000012 247 0.000008 524.5 0.000034 kg /Net MWh kg /Net MWh kg /Net MWh kg /Net MWh Mercury  71.0 0.000001""
""26.5 0.000001 18.9 0.000001 25.6 0.000002 Lead  87.8 0.000002 23.4 0.000001 29.5 0.000003 34.9 0.000003 95 2024 Sustainability Report  For company use only. Not for public distribution. Carbon Dioxide and Other Emissions – 2025 (projected) Xcel Energy PSCo NSP SPS Carbon Dioxide (MT) 35,231,619 13,686,815 10,144,679 11,400,125 Carbon Dioxide (MT/Net MWh) 0.308 0.376 0.229 0.339 Owned and Purchased Generation 96 2024 Sustainability Report Owned Generation Xcel Energy PSCo NSP SPS MT /Net MWh MT""
""/Net MWh MT /Net MWh MT /Net MWh Nitrogen Oxide  18,056 0.0002 4,752 0.0001 5,858 0.0001 7,446 0.0002 Sulfur Dioxide  20,161 0.0002 4,663 0.0001 3,716 0.0001 11,782 0.0004 kg /Net MWh kg /Net MWh kg /Net MWh Kg /Net MWh Mercury  139,200 0.0012 0.034 0.0000 NA NA 139,200 0.0041  For company use only. Not for public distribution. Carbon Dioxide and Other Emissions – 2030 (projected) Xcel Energy PSCo NSP SPS Carbon Dioxide (MT) 12,191,155 3,826,167 3,244,516 5,120,472 Carbon Dioxide (MT/Net MWh)""
""0.087 0.071 0.066 0.136 Owned and Purchased Generation 97 2024 Sustainability Report Owned Generation Xcel Energy PSCo NSP SPS MT /Net MWh MT /Net MWh MT /Net MWh MT /Net MWh Nitrogen Oxide  4,271 0.00003 2,586 0.00005 810 0.00002 875 0.00002 Sulfur Dioxide  1,116 0.00001 732 0.00001 378 0.00001 6 0.00000 kg /Net MWh kg /Net MWh kg /Net MWh Kg /Net MWh Mercury  0.0083 0.00000 0.01 0.00000 NA NA 0.00 0.00000  For company use only. Not for public distribution. TRI Releases – 2021 98 2024""
""Sustainability Report 79% Barium 2% Copper 10% Manganese 3% Vanadium 4% Zinc 2% Other 8,602,074 pounds 45% Hydrochloric Acid 27% Hydrofluoric Acid 20% Ammonia 5% Other 3% Sulfuric Acid 329,070 pounds 75% Ammonia 14% Zinc 10% Barium 1% Other TRI Land Disposal  (96% of total) TRI Releases to Air (4% of total) TRI Releases to Water (<0.02% of total) *Releases are from nine generating plants across our service area. 2024 reporting will be completed in July 2025.  1,864 pounds  For company use only.""
""Not for public distribution. TRI Releases – 2022 99 2024 Sustainability Report 81% Barium 3% Copper 8% Manganese 2% Vanadium 3% Zinc 3% Other 7,357,960 pounds 45% Hydrochloric Acid 32% Hydrofluoric Acid 14% Ammonia 6% Other 3% Sulfuric Acid 293,313 pounds 82% Ammonia 4% Zinc 12% Barium 2% Other TRI Land Disposal  (96.15% of total) TRI Releases to Air (3.83% of total) TRI Releases to Water (<0.02% of total) 1,203 pounds  For company use only. Not for public distribution. TRI Releases – 2023 100""
""2024 Sustainability Report 81% Barium 3% Copper 7% Manganese 2% Vanadium 3% Zinc 2% Other 7,056,912 pounds 44% Hydrochloric Acid 24% Hydrofluoric Acid 24% Ammonia 6% Other 3% Sulfuric Acid 289,637 pounds 36% Ammonia 13% Nickel 13% Barium 2% Other TRI Land Disposal  (96.04% of total) TRI Releases to Air (3.96% of total) TRI Releases to Water (<0.02% of total) 1,188 pounds 36% Zinc  For company use only. Not for public distribution. EPA Subpart W Methane Emissions Reporting  EPA’s Subpart W""
""requires owners or operators of petroleum and natural gas systems to report emissions for facilities that emit  25,000 metric tons or more of greenhouse gases annually.  2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Total Methane Emissions, MT 9,607 9,869 9,978 9,222 9,095 9,463 Total Methane Emissions, MT CO2e 240,175 246,725 249,461 230,555 227,370 264,957 Total Methane Emissions, MMscf 500 514 520 480 474 493 Methane Emissions Intensity  0.144% 0.146% 0.163% 0.147% 0.134% 0.192% Methane Throughput  346,531""
""352,348 319,798 326,192 352,822 256,247 101 2024 Sustainability Report  For company use only. Not for public distribution. Water Use by Source at Xcel Energy Owned Thermal Plants Withdrawn  (megaliters) Consumed (megaliters) Discharged (megaliters) South Platte River Basin* 17,529 15,070 2,460 Arkansas River Basin 9,605 7,418 2,188 Yampa River Basin 4,520 4,520 0 PSCo Total  31,654 27,008 4,648 Ogallala Aquifer 10,916 9,504 1,412 Treated Municipal Effluent  10,617 6,693 3,924 SPS Total 21,533""
""16,197 5,336 St. Croix River 157,057 0 157,057 Lake Superior  33,425 0 33,425 Mississippi River 1,492,928 18,321 1,474,607 Minnesota River 168,375 0 168,375 NSP Total** 1,851,785 18,321 1,833,464 Xcel Energy Total 1,904,974 61,526 1,843,447 102 2024 Sustainability Report *Includes trans-basin diversions **Does not include groundwater from these locations   For company use only. Not for public distribution. Coal Ash Summary (estimated tons) 103 2024 Sustainability Report 2022 2023 2024 Produced""
""Reused Produced Reused Produced Reused PSCo 617,935 79,459 314,093 77,897 477,606 41,759 SPS 151,550 151,550 205,404 205,404 149,548 149,548 NSP 474,512 86,325 329,789 21,118 268,207 4,421 Xcel Energy Total 1,243,997 317,334 1,149,286 304,419 895,362 195,729 *22% of coal ash at Xcel Energy power plants in 2024 was reused for beneficial purposes.  Waste-to-Energy Plants Fuel Consumption and Waste Reduction (estimated tons) 2021 2022 2023 2024 RDF Consumed 489,745 503,946 524,879 119,033 Ash""
""Produced 103,862 114,711 120,572 515,099 Total Waste-to-Landfill Reduction 79% 77% 77% 77% Biomass Fuel and Ash Summary (estimated tons) 2021 2022 2023 2024 Biomass Fuel Consumed 9,617 8,746 7,769 8,323 Ash Generated 253,364 240,866 232,408 105,129 Circular Economy  For company use only. Not for public distribution. Waste Disposition 104 2024 Sustainability Report 2021 2022 2023 2024 Hazardous 60 42 36 67 Nonhazardous Regulated 15,611 24,244 59,979 23,053 Total 15,671 24,286 60,015 23,120""
""*Hazardous and regulated waste as defined by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act Equipment and Oil Removed from Xcel Energy System 2021 2022 2023 2024 PCB and PCB-contaminated oil (gallons    disposed) 25,608 25,093 30,700 30,655 PCB and PCB-contaminated equipment (tons    removed from service) 135 177 161 113 Waste Summary   For company use only. Not for public distribution. 105 2024 Sustainability Report 2022 2023 2024 Batteries* 106 197 58 Electronics/Circuit Boards 93 136 112 Glass NR""
""113 90 Lamps 12 11 0 Mercury  NR 0.3 3.7 Metal Recycling 18,551 21,120 26,015 Miscellaneous NR NR 276 Paper/Cardboard 11 185 120 Plastic  219 372 594 Used Oil** 5,287 3,681 8,578 Total 24,279 25,815 35,847 Recycling Summary (tons) *Primarily lead acid batteries recycled for reclaiming lead but includes rechargeable and non-rechargeable Li or NiCad batteries  **Only includes used oil and mineral oil with no PCBs (<2 ppm)  For company use only. Not for public distribution. Customers Electric""
""3,339,276 455,253 1,308 70,837 61 3,866,674 106 2024 Sustainability Report Natural Gas Customers  State Residential Commercial &  Industrial Transportation & Other Total Colorado 1,393,041 103,602 7,244 1,503,887 Michigan 5,144 672 5 5,821 Minnesota 455,724 36,351 415 492,490 North Dakota 55,090 9,858 69 65,017 Wisconsin 104,264 13,060 202 117,526 Total 2,013,263 163,538 7,935 2,223,912  For company use only. Not for public distribution. Workforce Workforce Totals by Job Classification State""
""Sustainability Report Year Total Turnover Reason Retirements Resignations Other* 2022 11% 25% 63% 13% 2023 15% 38% 46% 16% 2024 9% 12% 68% 20% Employee Turnover Bargaining employees are employees represented by unions and covered under collective bargaining agreements. Temporary employees are project-specific  workers and include craft workers, which are represented by unions. Xcel Energy has no “non-guaranteed hour” employees.   For company use only. Not for public distribution. Projected""
""distribution. Workforce Safety 111 2024 Sustainability Report Frontline workers in the utility industry face numerous hazards while performing their jobs to provide customers with  electricity and natural gas service. Our Safety Always approach focuses on newer research and best practices that show it is  more effective to focus on identifying and mitigating the most serious risks, rather than the traditional tracking of incidents.  We provide the data below for reporting purposes only. We do""
""18,246 Natural Gas Pipelines (miles) Electric Transmission and Distribution Lines (conductor miles) *WGI is an interstate natural gas pipeline company that is part of our continuing regulated utility operations   For company use only. Not for public distribution. Reliability 114 2024 Sustainability Report Region SAIDI SAIFI CAIDI Colorado  158.0 1.36 116 Michigan, Wisconsin 122.1 0.88 139 Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota 101.8 1.01 101 Texas, New Mexico 119.3 1.10 108 Total 128.0 1.15 111""
""For company use only. Not for public distribution. Net Generation (MWh) Owned and Purchased Power Agreements – 2005  Xcel Energy PSCo NSP SPS Coal 61,487,935 23,977,305 22,128,904 15,381,727 Natural Gas 25,766,718 11,124,954 2,353,911 12,287,853 Nuclear 12,501,818 257,102 12,170,696 74,020 Petroleum  141,348 13,433 123,760 4,155 Biomass/Biogas 612,241 14,375 595,602 2,264 Other 500,270 5,730 162,393 332,147 Geothermal  129 129 - - Hydroelectric  5,302,048 563,988 4,721,348 16,712 Solar - - - -""
""Wind  2,705,558 712,847 1,454,791 537,920 Total Renewables  8,007,737 1,276,965 6,176,139 554,633 Total Net Generation 109,018,068 36,669,863 43,711,405 28,636,798 115 2024 Sustainability Report  For company use only. Not for public distribution. Net Generation (MWh) Owned and Purchased Power Agreements – 2023 Xcel Energy PSCo NSP SPS Coal 20,017,379 9,245,326 5,253,994 5,518,059 Natural Gas 31,212,470 11,366,707 9,333,634 10,512,128 Nuclear 9,738,908 725 9,738,183 - Petroleum  47,091 5,043""
""26,373 15,676 Biomass/Biogas 477,030 18,121 448,351 10,559 Other 180,038 10 174,720 5,309 Geothermal  - - - - Hydroelectric  2,758,638 274,076 2,448,474 36,089 Solar 5,214,831 3,050,114 1,752,116 412,602 Wind  33,158,933 12,166,661 12,126,005 8,866,268 Total Renewables  41,609,432 15,508,972 16,774,946 9,325,518 Total Net Generation 102,805,319 36,126,783 41,301,850 25,376,690 116 2024 Sustainability Report  For company use only. Not for public distribution. Net Generation (MWh) Owned and""
""Purchased Power Agreements – 2024 Xcel Energy PSCo NSP SPS Coal 15,611,940 7,284,870 4,169,468 4,157,602 Natural Gas 34,379,869 11,492,336 10,507,927 12,379,607 Nuclear 9,109,405 1,498 9,107,907 - Petroleum  46,606 11,728 (2,723) 37,601 Biomass/Biogas 471,377 18,324 428,008 25,045 Other 177,133 19 170,246 6,868 Geothermal  - - - - Hydroelectric  2,731,024 281,560 2,363,772 85,691 Solar 5,914,886 3,673,362 1,811,319 430,205 Wind  33,912,487 11,979,892 11,878,511 10,054,085 Total Renewables""
""43,029,774 15,953,137 16,481,611 10,595,026 Total Net Generation 102,354,727 34,743,588 40,434,435 27,176,704 117 2024 Sustainability Report  For company use only. Not for public distribution. Net Generation (MWh) Owned and Purchased Power Agreements – 2025 (projected) Xcel Energy PSCo NSP SPS Coal 20,814,895 9,301,377 6,649,355 4,864,163 Natural Gas 30,024,644 8,826,016 5,427,435 15,771,193 Nuclear 11,964,473 - 11,964,473 - Petroleum  - - - - Biomass/Biogas 174,382 - 174,382 - Other - - - -""
""Geothermal  - - - - Hydroelectric  1,859,056 165,750 1,693,306 - Solar 8,635,504 5,097,803 2,950,296 587,405 Wind  40,925,993 13,042,000 15,451,114 12,432,879 Total Renewables  51,594,935 18,305,553 20,269,099 13,020,284 Total Net Generation 114,398,947 36,432,553 44,310,362 33,655,639 118 2024 Sustainability Report  For company use only. Not for public distribution. Net Generation (MWh) Owned and Purchased Power Agreements – 2030 (projected) Xcel Energy PSCo NSP SPS Coal 1,356,622 1,356,622 - -""
""Natural Gas 22,153,556 5,252,392 5,789,142 11,112,022 Nuclear 12,625,507 - 12,625,507 - Petroleum  - - - - Biomass/Biogas 140,714 - 140,714 - Other - - - - Geothermal  - - - - Hydroelectric  986,434 82,319 904,115 - Solar 24,626,348 13,890,523 6,192,468 4,543,357 Wind  79,026,366 33,572,380 23,456,671 21,997,315 Total Renewables  104,779,862 47,545,221 30,693,969 26,540,672 Total Net Generation 140,915,547 54,154,235 49,108,618 37,652,694 119 2024 Sustainability Report  For company use only. Not""
""for public distribution. Renewable Energy Portfolio (owned and purchased capacity) Region Wind Utility-Scale Solar* Hydroelectric Biomass Total PSCo 4,055 1,530 23 - 5,608 NSP 4,506 349 278 41 5,174 SPS 2,547 192 - - 2,739 Total 11,108 2,071 301 41 13,521 120 2024 Sustainability Report *Excludes distributed solar generation through community solar gardens and rooftop solar, which totaled 2,522 megawatts at the end of 2024, including net  metered and made in Minnesota systems installed outside of""
""our Solar*Rewards program Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) Sold and Delivered (Jan. 01, 2024 – Dec. 31, 2024) Region 2021 2022 2023 2024 Total Texas - - - - - New Mexico - - - - - Colorado - - - - - Upper Midwest - - 309,910 600,000 909,910 Total - - 309,910 600,000 909,910  xcelenergy.com | © 2025 Xcel Energy Inc.    Xcel Energy is a registered trademark of Xcel Energy Inc. | 25-01-314""
