""2025 Sustainability Report Our view to 2050 April 2025 Contents Executive summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 02 Our approach to sustainability Integrating sustainability into what we do . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 09 Pursuing environmental excellence Managing environmental performance and compliance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .""
""17 Caring for land and biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 Conserving water resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 Improving air quality . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . 28 Minimizing operational waste . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .""
"". . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 Meeting society’s critical needs for energy and products Supporting a just transition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33 Expanding the plastics life cycle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37 Progressing product safety . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .""
""socioeconomic impacts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56 Working with suppliers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64 Sustainability performance data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67 About our Advancing Climate Solutions and Sustainability Reports and Cautionary Statement . . . . . . . . . .""
"". . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70 ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 1 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Protect Tomorrow. Today. TODAY 4 2050 10 Our approach to sustainability ~ ~ B B people below the people on The world needs energy, more now than ever before. modern energy the planet minimum1 Today, billions of people cannot meet their most basic 2024 Global Outlook needs – like access to clean cooking fuel and electricity. At We’re hard at work creating sustainable solutions that the same""
""time, billions more need to sustain their quality of improve quality of life and meet society’s evolving needs life and contribute to economic growth. Because we know it’s not just what we do that matters, but And as populations grow, people around the world also how we do it. will need more petrochemical products – critical in cars, homes, hospitals, kitchens – and anywhere people thrive. Protect Tomorrow. Today. is the guiding principle behind our approach to sustainability. It’s also a call""
""to action. It drives us to look at our businesses with the mindset to be the most responsible operator in our Our 14 sustainability focus areas industry. Delivering economic Respecting It gives us a consistent focus on doing the right things, the benefits human rights right way, to the highest standards. Advancing climate Caring for land We encourage our leaders and teams to ask questions that solutions and biodiversity go beyond “What are we required to do?” We are asking proactive questions""
""like: Expanding the plastics Minimizing life cycle operational waste • How can we reduce or mitigate emissions, waste, or the resources we use in our operations? Evaluating product Enhancing benefits with life cycle process safety • How can we increase benefits for our communities and assessments reduce impacts? Conserving Progressing water resources product safety • Are there opportunities to collaborate on industry standards and regulations? Improving Leading in The answers are as complex as""
""our portfolio, and they air quality personnel safety will change over time. How we act on what we learn will ultimately help us capture the full value of our competitive Managing Investing socioeconomic in people advantages – in the right way. impacts “We have a philosophy to be the most responsible operator in our industry. For as long as there’s a demand for oil and gas, you want the most responsible companies producing that.” — Darren Woods, Chairman and CEO ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability""
""Report About the cover: A 2.4 km liquidfied-natural-gas jetty operated by ExxonMobil PNG 2 Limited in Papua New Guinea. What it takes to create sustainable solutions Doing the right things the right way Meeting society’s needs requires long-term focus and large-scale solutions. It also takes collaboration – with everyone our business reaches: Communities Employees Customers Investors Be a trusted partner Provide unrivalled Meet their needs for Deliver industry- that creates high- opportunities""
""affordable, reliable, leading returns on the quality jobs, operates for personal and and lower-emission capital entrusted to safely with care for professional growth, energy and products. us – today, tomorrow, the environment, and with safe, impactful and into the future. invests to address work for an entire socioeconomic career. challenges. Putting our values to work We hold our people to the highest ethical standards and expect them to do what’s right – across the company and throughout our""
""inclusive and persevere Do what is right Be thoughtful, Think boldly Look after Be purposeful thorough and and act with each other and steadfast in disciplined conviction our principles Contribute to Take personal the well-being of ownership our communities and the environment ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 3 Pursuing environmental excellence As a global company, our environmental story is as diverse and complex as the ~60 countries we live and work in around the world. Our Advancing""
""Climate Solutions report details our approach to reducing emissions. And that’s just part of the story. We do far more every day to pursue environmental excellence: Caring for land and biodiversity Reducing potential impacts on ecosystems and protecting the value they provide to nature and people. Conserving water resources Safeguarding water resources by prudently managing and monitoring our water use – with a focus on the quality and supply of freshwater. Improving air quality Meeting or""
""exceeding regulatory requirements and working to reduce nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Minimizing operational waste Incorporating best practices to manage and treat waste. We look for ways to avoid waste entirely or recover, recycle, and reuse it when possible. How have we turned these four environmental focus areas into results? We have: Worked with Tandem Used recycled Reduced reportable Diverted from landfill Global (formerly produced,""
""brackish emissions of NOx, >95% of waste Wildlife Habitat or reclaimed sources SOx, and VOCs from produced in our global Council) on land and to supply 98% of the 2016 to 2024 by network of lubricants habitat conservation water in our Permian ~25%.3 blending and packaging for >30 years. Basin hydraulic plants in 2023 and fracturing operations in 2024. 2024.2 Helping people thrive around the world Everyone needs reliable energy – to heat their homes, cook their meals, and improve their quality of""
""life. That’s why we’re working to lead in an energy transition that will: • Provide solutions that support people around the world. • Lower greenhouse gas emissions. • Manage potential impacts. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 4 Supporting our workforce, respecting human rights, and driving local growth We have a century-old legacy of growing local economies, supporting communities, develop- ing our workforce, and maintaining a constant focus on keeping people safe. Our core values and We""
""are ExxonMobil leadership culture have led the way. Everyone at ExxonMobil plays a role We expect our employees to be respectful and inclusive, to care for each other, and to contribute to the well-being of our communities and the environment. Our Investing in People report describes how we develop our workforce to make this happen. We focus on personnel safety and are determined to build a working environment where Nobody Gets Hurt. Our Operations Integrity Management System helps our people do""
""their part in process safety for the security and health of our employees, contractors, and others. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 5 The numbers tell a powerful story 0.02 Safety industry-leading lost-time incident rate (LTIR) per 200,000 work hours in 2023 – maintained our 0.02 LTIR in 2024.4 0 high-consequence product stewardship-related incidents in our Fuels, Lubricants, and Chemicals businesses again in 2024. 1 1 # # Employees most attractive U.S. energy energy company for""
""with qualified suppliers that share our commitment our communities. It’s embedded into our policies, processes, to respecting human rights and working to reduce impacts and due diligence practices. We also provide access to to the environment. remedy and channels for people to engage with us — in Here is a snapshot: $6.8 >$129 ~ B M in annual spend with diverse invested to help community-based suppliers in the United States.8 and global partners implement programs that benefit women. Other ways""
""we make an impact Notably, we’re helping to meet the increasing demand for products that play critical roles in hygiene, food preservation, personal safety, transportation, and much more. And we’re working to expand the plastics life cycle through advanced recycling, allowing us to help address the global plastic waste challenge and make valuable products from discarded materials. 1 pounds of annual advanced B recycling capacity planned. 80 pounds of plastic waste processed through our Baytown M""
""advanced recycling facility through December 2024. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 7 This is a glimpse into the meaningful work we do each day – from improving our communities to investing in energy solutions and people. Each of these plays an important role in the communities we serve around the world. We appreciate your interest and invite you to explore our full Sustainability Report on our website. The content and data referenced in this report focus primarily on our operations from""
""Jan. 1, 2024 – Dec. 31, 2024, unless otherwise indicated. Information regarding some known events or activities in 2025 and historical initiatives from prior years are also included in the report. Footnotes for Executive Summary 1 Using UN HDI data from 2022, we determined that about 4 billion people live below the “modern energy minimum.” That’s far below modern standards of living, which require reliable energy for housing, infrastructure, jobs, and mobility. See our 2024 Global Outlook. 2 In""
""2024, we acquired Pioneer Natural Resources Company. In our combined Permian Basin operations, recycled produced water includes water from ExxonMobil and other oil & gas operators in the region. Reclaimed water includes treated municipal and industrial wastewater. 3 Air emissions performance data includes recent acquisitions (Denbury data beginning November 2, 2023 and Pioneer data beginning May 3, 2024). 4 ExxonMobil LTIR based on full-year performance data for 2023 and 2024 as of March 12,""
""gift and volunteer programs. 7 Includes donations from ExxonMobil and the ExxonMobil Foundation. 8 Includes direct ExxonMobil spending on Tier 1 suppliers and a select group of Tier 2 suppliers, which includes small business owned, veteran business owned, and other classifications informed by industry reporting guidance. At all times decisions are made based on the best supplier for the need. 2024 data from Pioneer operations not available at time of publication. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability""
""worldwide. The Board of Directors has adopted and oversees sstewardship of progress support ddelivery in areas of focus and drive the administration of the Standards, and no one at ExxonMobil ccontinuous improvement. can make exceptions or grant waivers to these policies. Our foundation policies cover aspects of the environment, health, safety, product safety, customer relations, equal trade sanctions, and export controls topics) on an annual or employment opportunity, harassment in the""
""workplace, and biennial basis. ExxonMobil-specific and other relevant training more. They also define ethical conduct for our company, which is shared with contractors if required to perform contracted includes our values on important matters like human rights, services. In 2024, more than 17,500 employees and contrac- labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. tors participated in relevant training. Our Standards of Business Conduct are a key part of onboarding new employees, and they are""
""participated, with more to come. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 9 ExxonMobil’s core values INTEGRITY EXCELLENCE COURAGE CARE RESILIENCE Be honest and Hold ourselves to Take initiative and Be respectful and Be determined ethical high standards make a difference inclusive and persevere Do what is right Be thoughtful, Think boldly Look after Be purposeful thorough and and act with each other and steadfast in disciplined conviction our principles Contribute to Take personal the well-being""
""of our ownership communities and the environment Integrity is first among our core values for a reason. It underpins and regulatory compliance, as well as compliance with company our dedication to uphold the highest ethical standards and to do policy. Confirmed violations can lead to disciplinary actions, up what’s right in all aspects of our business. to and including termination. We encourage employees and contractors to ask questions Regular internal audits and self-assessments help us verify""
""Audit Committee. Procedures and open-door communications This committee consists of four independent (i.e., non- Proxy Statement employee) directors who help the Board in overseeing financial reporting, accounting, and internal controls. This includes legal Our sustainability focus areas Our 14 Sustainability Focus Areas were developed by analyzing our environmental and social impacts, business strategies, current events, and internal and external stakeholders’ priorities. We believe these focus""
""areas are most important to both our company and society. We develop strategies, allocate resources, and execute plans to address risks and opportunities within each of them. Delivering Respecting Advancing Caring for Expanding economic human climate land and the plastics benefits rights solutions biodiversity life cycle Minimizing Enhancing Evaluating product Conserving water Progressing operational process benefits with life resources product waste safety cycle assessmentsts safety Improving""
""Leading in Managing Investing air quality personnel socioeconomic in safety impacts people ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 10 Topic selection process The findings of our topic selection process inform the To select our topics, we also analyze peer and industry development of this Sustainability Report. reporting, regulations, and media to gain data-driven insights into strategic, regulatory, and reputational risks and Ipieca is the “global oil and gas association for advancing""
""opportunities. Inputs include: environmental and social performance across the energy • Peer benchmarking. transition.”1 It refers to important topics as those that, in the view of a company’s management and external parties, have • Review of leading sustainability frameworks – including the potential to significantly affect a company’s sustainability those published by the Global Reporting Initiative, the performance and stakeholder awareness, assessments, or Sustainability Accounting Standards""
""Board (SASB), and Ipieca. decisions.2 • Regulatory guidance. In 2024, we engaged a third party to refresh our topic selection in line with the Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil • Third-party research. and Gas Industry (4th edition, 2020, revised February 2023) • Internal and external stakeholder engagement. developed by Ipieca, the American Petroleum Institute, and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers, reaffirming Our Global Operations and Sustainability leadership""
""and support which topics the makes the business case for narrative on selected topics other research company should prioritize managing the selected topics Supporting the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals The United Nations has adopted the Sustainable Development 65% focused on reducing emissions for third parties.3 This Goals (SDGs) to achieve progress on global economic, social, investment also supports our 2030 greenhouse gas emission- and environmental challenges. The goals are""
""directed at reduction plans.4 governments, but the private sector and civil society play an important role in supporting national plans. We support governments’ efforts to meet the SDGs. For example, our corporate strategy directly supports progress toward SDG 7, “Affordable and Clean Energy.” To meet the UN’s goal to “end poverty in all its forms everywhere,” providing for basic energy needs is a must. As described in our Global Outlook, about 4 billion around the world live below ExxonMobil""
""Product Solutions supports progress toward what we call the “modern energy minimum” of 50 million SDG12, ”Responsible Consumption and Production” by British thermal units per capita per year. When a nation meets providing the plastics that make modern life possible. Our the modern energy minimum, it can: customers use our materials for applications in healthcare and medical equipment, agriculture, food and beverage, and other • Provide universal access to clean cooking. critical areas. We are""
""advancing infrastructure and technology • Provide universal access to electricity. for collecting, sorting, and processing discarded plastics. In • Eliminate abject poverty. 2024, we announced a $200 million investment to expand our advanced recycling capacity to 500 million pounds – that’s As we continue to help supply the energy products the the weight of about 25 Eiffel Towers. Advanced recycling world needs, we also support progress toward SDG 13, allows for a substantially broader range of""
""plastic waste to be “Climate Action.” Reducing emissions is the other half of our recycled back into high-value raw materials versus conventional “and” equation. We’re pursuing up to $30 billion in lower- recycling. emission investments from 2025 through 2030 – with about ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 11 Communicating progress Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited provided Our reports reasonable-level assurance for the processes we used to report on Ipieca’s core elements of""
""safety, health and environment in Global Outlook Investing in People our Sustainability Report. Advancing Climate In addition to our Sustainability Report, we publish Worldwide Giving Report Solutions Report comprehensive reports to provide insight into how we create value through our integrated businesses and how we manage Annual Report Advocacy Report associated risks, opportunities, and impacts. Our systems, expectations, and standards We have built an organizational and governance structure""
""Our Operations Integrity Management System around our focus areas to ensure top-to-bottom and bottom- (OIMS) establishes expectations, protocols, and guidance that to-top alignment. Our objectives and strategies ensure a apply across all our operations to address risks inherent to our consistent approach across the company, while empowering business, including environmental risks. our business lines to take action and advance our sustainability Each element of OIMS contains overarching""
""even where laws or regulations don’t exist. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 12 Key systems and standards include: Controls Integrity Management System (CIMS): The CIMS Global Energy Management System: This system identifies is used to assess and measure financial control risks, identify opportunities to improve energy efficiency and reduce mitigation procedures, monitor compliance with standards, and greenhouse gas emissions intensity in downstream and report results. chemical""
""operations. Environmental Aspects Guide (EAG): This guide establishes IMPACT: This corporate-wide database captures and a consistent approach to identify, evaluate, and assess analyzes safety and environmental data on incidents, near- environmental and socioeconomic risks. misses, observations, assessment findings, lessons learned, and follow-up activities. Environmental Plans: These plans address environmental objectives as part of the annual business cycle using a National Content Guidelines,""
""Strategies, and Best corporate-wide framework. Practices: This document outlines the key elements of our national content strategy and plan, models, and tools for the Environmental Data Management System (EDMS): The EDMS successful development of national content, and roles and is used to collect, collate, and consolidate site-level data at the responsibilities at the corporate, country, and project levels. corporate level to help manage environmental performance indicators globally. Product""
""Stewardship Information Management System (PSIMS): This system applies common global processes Environmental, Socioeconomic, and Health Impact and a global computer system to capture and communicate Assessment (ESHIA): These assessments enable us to identify information on the safe handling, transport, use, and and analyze key environmental, socioeconomic, and health disposal of our products. risks and to develop management strategies throughout an asset’s life cycle. Project Environmental""
""Standards (PES): These standards identify applicable company environmental and ExxonMobil Capital Projects Management System (EMCAPS): socioeconomic standards for affected new projects. EMCAPS provides a framework for project development and execution and helps account for environmental and Technology Management System: This system includes socioeconomic concerns, as well as regulatory requirements. processes for technology investments that follow a gated management system from early technical""
""include: Two-way engagement topics include: • Shareholders • Community meetings • Technical aspects of projects • Governments • Open-door communications • Community benefits and opportunities • Communities • Digital and social media • Potential impacts to the environment and community • Customers • Corporate publications • Local concerns • Employees • Direct mail communications • Public policy development • Suppliers • Participation in local organizations, trade associations, and other groups •""
""Project development progress • Academia • One-on-one or group discussions • Market-based approaches to • Nongovernmental organizations sustainability matters • Trade associations and industry groups • Policy insights • Safety, environmental, and human rights practices ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 13 Engaging with shareholders Ongoing engagement with our shareholders is vitally important We engage with shareholders and their representatives on a as we seek to understand their diverse""
""matter experts • Proxy advisory firms • Spotlight events • Other employees • Environmental, Social, and • Annual shreholder meeting Governance (ESG) rating firms • Shareholder webcasts Sustainability engagements: • Industry thought leaders • Stakeholder outreach • Shareholder proposal proponents >50% increase since 2019 Engaged with shareholder representing: Information shared through: 2.1 billion shares • SEC filings • Advancing Climate Solutions report ~47% of total outstanding shares • Press""
""releases • Sustainability Report and • Annual Report • Advocacy Report ~76% of institutional shareholdings • Company website • Earnings Calls • Investing in People report In addition, the Nominating and Governance Committee has consider each proposal, and the company seeks a dialogue with procedures for shareholders and others to reach out to Board the proposal sponsor. members. Individuals can email our non-employee directors through our website. All communications are recorded by an At the""
""areas of interest without Due Review the need for formal shareholder proposals. Each year, Corporate governance P-B shareholders or their proxies submit proposals as allowed 2024 Proxy Statement I-B I-SB I-PB Appoved D1 by SEC Rule 14a-8. Company management and the Board 2024 Proxy Results ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 14 Engaging with governments Policy decisions made at all levels of government can affect our ExxonMobil’s positions on climate, including its 2030 operations, now and""
""in the future. We actively participate in greenhouse gas emission-reduction plans,5 are available on discussions around the world to support policies that promote our website and in our Advancing Climate Solutions Report, economic growth, stable investment for long-term business along with our annual proxy statement, press releases, and viability, energy security, and the development and acceleration the Exxchange, our online advocacy hub. Our lobbying and of lower-emission solutions. political""
""contributions are aligned with these positions. We focus on rational and constructive policy that reflects the Positions and principles “and” equation – growing the supply of affordable and reliable Advocacy Report energy products that improve living standards around the Advancing Climate Solutions Report world and supporting scalable development and deployment of 2024 Proxy Statement lower- and zero-greenhouse gas emission technologies. Press releases Exxchange Such policies can further""
""encourage investments in lower- emission technologies to advance the energy transition at the lowest cost to society. U.S. lobbying expenses ExxonMobil undertakes lobbying to advocate for our positions 501(c)(4) organizations that we support. This includes more on issues that affect our company, the energy industry, and than 100 organizations and 100% of the lobbying expenses overall competitive free markets. We have a responsibility to incurred, as well as the issues lobbied. It also provides""
""an our shareholders, employees, customers, and communities to assessment of ExxonMobil and its affiliates’ climate-related represent their interests in public policy discussions that are lobbying activities in relevant trade associations. related to our industry and impact our business. We fully comply with federal and state regulations by reporting We have a rigorous process to determine which public policy federal lobbying to the U.S. Congress and state-level lobbying issues are important to""
""the company. This process includes to appropriate entities, as required. We also publicly report, on soliciting input from internal business lines, Low Carbon a quarterly basis, our federal lobbying expenses and the specific Solutions, Upstream, and Product Solutions, as well as issues lobbied. The total figure reported in our public Lobbying corporate departments including strategic planning, human Disclosure Act filings includes expenses associated with the resources, law, tax, and public and""
""government affairs. We also costs of employee federal lobbying, as well as those portions engage with a wide range of third parties – both individuals and of payments to trade associations, coalitions, and think tanks organizations – to ensure external perspectives are considered. spent on federal lobbying. Our Advocacy Report provides additional detail of our direct This process, along with the oversight of our lobbying and and indirect climate-related lobbying activities at the federal,""
""activities routinely verify contribution sponsored, federal PAC. ExxonMobil reports PAC contributions amounts. to the U.S. Federal Election Commission every month. As a U.S. federal contractor, ExxonMobil has not used corporate treasury funds to support any federal candidates, Political contributions national political parties, or other political committees, ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 15 Transparency in payments to governments We believe that disclosing relevant payments to""
""Footnotes for Integrating sustainability into what we do 1 https://www.ipieca.org 2 Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry (4th edition, 2020, revised February 2023) developed by Ipieca, the American Petroleum Institute, and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers. 3 Lower emissions cash capex includes cash capex attributable to carbon capture and storage, hydrogen, lithium, biofuels, ProxximaTM systems, carbon materials, and activities to lower ExxonMobil’s""
""emissions and/or third party (3P) emissions. Planned spend is from 2025-2030. 4 ExxonMobil 2030 GHG emission-reduction plans are intensity-based and for Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions from operated assets compared to 2016 levels. For more information, see our Advancing Climate Solutions report. 5 ExxonMobil 2030 GHG emission-reduction plans are intensity-based and for Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions from operated assets compared to 2016 levels. 6 Electioneering communication is""
""the standard terminology used by the Federal Election Committee and also used in our Advocacy Report. It includes any communication that refers to a clearly identified federal candidate, is publicly distributed within 30 days of a primary or 60 days of a general election and is targeted to the relevant electorate. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 16 Pursuing environmental excellence Managing environmental performance and compliance Our standards and tools set the bar in our operations We""
""are also committed to complying with all applicable as we work to enhance risk management and maximize environmental laws and regulations. Even where regulations do opportunities to responsibly meet society’s needs. not exist, we apply our Project Environmental Standards and other practices, programs, and procedures to guide our work. Our approach Protect Tomorrow. Today. is our guiding principle. We aim to develop, maintain, and operate assets responsibly as we work to meet society’s evolving""
""needs. We apply our environmental management systems across our operations as we strive for leading environmental performance. We evaluate potential and actual environmental and socioeconomic risks at each stage of a project, even early stages of planning, to mitigate potential impacts. Our environmental focus areas We often work in remote and sensitive places, such as Excellence in project execution is built on deep insight into deep water and in areas that include ecosystems with high the""
""unique traits of the areas where we operate. We use biodiversity. Wherever we operate, we work to protect the our Environmental Aspects Guide to identify and evaluate environment and support the social and economic needs of environmental and socioeconomic risks and impacts through communities – today and for generations to come. the life of each site or project. For major capital projects, we typically perform an Environmental, Socioeconomic, and Our environmental focus areas are: Health Impact""
""Assessment. Among the many environmental • Advancing climate solutions aspects covered, we may include water use, air emissions, • Caring for land and biodiversity biodiversity, sound, land use, and others. • Conserving water resources • Improving air quality Once we have defined the environmental and socioeconomic • Minimizing operational waste aspects of each project, we develop plans to avoid, reduce, or address any issues that may arise. We also seek feedback from stakeholders, including""
""local communities. Managing our commitment We offer training on these processes and other environmental and socioeconomic topics to employees as part of our ongoing Our Environment Policy is part of our Standards of Business development efforts. Employees have completed more than Conduct. It details our commitment to continuous efforts 13,000 of these courses since 2022. to improve environmental performance throughout our operations. International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001""
""American Chemistry Council Responsible Care® Our Operations Integrity Management System Environmental Aspects Guide (OIMS) framework meets International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 environmental management system standards and the requirements of American Chemistry Council Responsible Care®. Our global network of more than 20 lubricant plants is ISO 14001-certified – an indicator of the effectiveness of OIMS. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 17 Global Operations and""
""Sustainability Our Global Operations and Sustainability (GO&S) organization Our GO&S Vice President reports directly to a member of our touches every part of ExxonMobil, making use of our scale, management committee. This role is responsible for driving our capabilities, and the synergies between our business lines. Protect Tomorrow. Today. guiding principle. This includes: • Working with our Corporate Strategic Planning organization and the business lines to develop goals. • Integrating goals""
""into our plans and operations. • Stewarding sustainability topics with our Chairman and the Management Committee at least once per quarter. Within GO&S, the Sustainability Director manages our Experts within the team work with others across the company sustainability focus areas. This includes our environmental to seek out opportunities for continuous improvement. management system and other key processes. Our Project Environmental Standards Our Project Environmental Standards (PES) are our""
""internally PES sets minimum environmental standards, even where established environmental and socioeconomic standards laws are lacking. These standards are integrated into that outline expectations and requirements for new projects. management systems like OIMS, enabling consistent These standards were first developed for upstream projects, application across the company. and were established in 2010 for all our business lines. They were harmonized across the company in 2021 and are updated as""
""needed. Measuring our performance Everywhere we work, we strive to deliver leading Building on Liza Unity’s success, the Prosperity FPSO received environmental performance. The standards and practices we the same notation from ABS. Prosperity started up in 2023 apply around the world often go beyond local legal with an initial capacity of around 220,000 barrels of oil per day requirements. – supporting economic development in the region and helping to meet the world’s demand for energy. The""
""floating production storage and offloading (FPSO) vessels built for our affiliate in Guyana are an important example. The American Bureau of Shipping Liza Unity FPSO was the first in the world to be awarded the ABS Guide for Sustainability Notation SUSTAIN-1 notation by the American Bureau of Shipping (ABS). To earn this notation, a vessel must meet certain requirements of the ABS Guide for Sustainability Notations. These criteria reflect Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) related to asset""
""design, outfitting, and layout, covering aspects such as: • Recycling • Energy use • Coastal and marine ecosystems • Human-centered design Performance data Our metrics are informed by the Ipieca, the American Petroleum Institute (API), and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry (4th edition, 2020, revised February 2023), and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 18""
""Pursuing environmental excellence Caring for land and biodiversity We work under a broad range of natural and socioeconomic settings – and every location is unique. Our operations are in areas that include: • Forests • Grasslands • Marshes • Deserts • Aquatic and marine environments These ecosystems, functioning in a healthy relationship, provide benefits (i.e., natural services) like pollination of crops, food, clean air, and physical and spiritual well-being. The scale of our operations means""
""that we have to consider ecosystems and work to reduce potential impacts to them and the value they provide. Knowing how our activities interact with ecosystems is United Nations Sustainable Development Goals related to this content. key to supporting nature and communities. Our approach We employ a comprehensive process to understand the connection between our business and the communities and environments where we operate. Using our Operational Integrity Management System and Environmental""
""Aspects Guide, we work to understand and measure the benefits gained from the biodiversity of an environment. • Our environmental management system helps us identify, mitigate, and monitor potential impacts to any given environment. • Engagement with academia, industry, community leaders, and others helps us identify relevant biodiversity and ecosystem services. With these inputs, we apply an approach based on an evaluation of the ecosystems and how they function in the broader environment.""
""Protect Tomorrow. Today. is our guiding principle. Our work is also informed by the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Care is a core value. We aim to contribute to the well-being of Our standards provide guidance for avoiding land use in the communities and environment where we operate. That’s areas of high “ecosystem services” value or critical habitats.1 what Care means for us. The way we manage land and habitats, Our guidance includes more than a dozen categories for and the""
""biodiversity within them, is critically important to this consideration, including statutory protections, impacts from objective. other industrial activities, and importance to Indigenous peoples. In these areas, we follow the Cross Sector Biodiversity Our Project Environmental Standards (PES) for Land Use and Initiative’s mitigation hierarchy, a best practice to help avoid, Marine Sound inform how we choose projects and design our reduce, restore, and offset impacts to biodiversity. As part of""
""facilities. They enable us to: this decision-making process, we look for ways to protect, conserve, or restore ecosystems from the start of a project • Avoid or reduce environmental and socioeconomic impacts through the end of an asset’s life, including remediation and related to short- and long-term land use, including lands in restoration. critical habitats or with high ecosystem value. • Identify, assess, and manage risks linked with our work that For major projects, we use our Environmental,""
""Social, and may produce marine sound, and reliably and effectively Health Impact Assessment process to evaluate environmental, implement our mitigation efforts. social, and health risks. We also use an environmental aspects ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 19 assessment process to identify, assess, and establish solutions we launched sustainability online training courses available to (e.g., potential mitigation measures) at every stage of a project. all employees, including a module to""
""reinforce the importance of ExxonMobil’s sustainability focus areas like this one. Through Systems like these help us put Care into practice in this focus December 2024, more than 4,000 employees have completed area. Through training, we bring this core value to life with this module. Some employees receive more training with a our employees. As part of our sustainability strategy, land and deep focus on environmental management, based on their habitat management is emphasized in online""
""training, in-person roles. meetings, and interactive virtual sessions. For example, in 2022, What are ecosystem services? Ecosystems are how nature works. From water and air … to We look to assess the significance of our activities and the plants and animals … to food and raw materials, nature is potential impact those activities might have on ecosystem interconnected and essential for human life. services – that is, we seek to understand how the ecosystems benefit people and the environment. By""
""identifying the The concept of ecosystem services links the socioeconomic biodiversity and relevant ecosystem services around our sites, and environmental settings in each area where we operate. our project designs and operational practices can both reduce Ecosystem services are the way that nature contributes, both potential impacts and find opportunities for added benefits. directly or indirectly, to human health and prosperity. These can be complex – like the role of insects in pollinating""
""crops and natural plants. Or they can be as simple as the beauty of natural landscapes that improve spiritual and mental well-being. Operations near protected areas We check our sites against the World Database of Protected The table3 below lists our major operating sites within 5 km of: Areas and adjust our business plans as needed to enhance emergency response plans and protective measures. In 2024, • International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) 32% of major operating sites2 were""
""within 5 km of designated Category I and II protected areas (strict nature reserves, protected areas on land and 10 km of designated marine wilderness areas, and national parks). protected areas. • Ramsar sites (wetlands of international importance). • UNESCO World Heritage Sites (natural and cultural). Major operating site Protected area name Designation/type Location Facility type Country Long Island Point Mornington Peninsula and UNESCO - man and Within 1 km Fractionation plant and Australia""
""Western Port Bioesphere Biosphere Programme storage Reserve (MAB), Ramsar Site Fawley Solent and Southampton Water Ramsar site Within 1 km Petroleum refinery and United Kingdom chemical plant Point Jerome Marais Vernier et Vallée de la Ramsar site Within 1 km Petroleum refinery and France Gravenchon Risle maritime lube oil blending plant Notre Dame Marais Vernier et Vallée de la Ramsar site Within 5 km Chemical plant France Gravenchon Risle maritime Fife Ethylene Plant Firth of Forth Ramsar site""
""Within 5 km Chemical plant United Kingdom Barenburg Operations Diepholzer Moorniederung Ramsar site Within 5 km Oil and gas processing Germany Vallejo El Tepeyac IUCN Cat ll Within 5 km Lube blending plant Mexico ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 20 Site-specific strategies Our work is catered to the needs of each community and ecosystem. We seek opportunities for: Research to increase shared knowledge about ecosystems and how they work. Engagement with local communities, governments, and""
""academia to connect our work with regional strategies. Remediation and conservation to bring new life to areas where we operate. ExxonMobil Research Qatar in Doha works with QatarEnergy the University of Southern Mississippi for teachers and LNG, Qatar University, and the Ministry of Environment and classrooms across the state and beyond. Climate Change to define and deploy nature-based solutions (NbS) to help protect, manage, and restore ecosystems. • Land management programs involving the""
""introduction Mangrove habitats, for example, can provide multiple NbS “co- of natural grasses and reforestation, with support from benefits” such as supporting biodiversity, stabilizing shorelines, the Mississippi Forestry Commission and Mississippi State and sequestering carbon. Constructed wetlands are another University. avenue of research, as they can be used for wastewater • Biodiversity monitoring with the introduction of leading- treatment and reuse. edge eDNA technologies to perform""
""ecological surveys. In Centreville, Mississippi, a cross-functional team is developing In Louisiana, the ExxonMobil Baton Rouge Arboretum and and implementing an ambitious beneficial use remediation Learning Center achieved WHC Certification®. Designated project on a 240-acre site. Efforts there include: as Certified Silver, the site comprises more than 700 acres • Pursuing WHC Certification®, powered by Tandem of preserves. Our efforts there are focused on local birds, Global, a voluntary""
""sustainability standard designed for pollinator protection, and urban forests. Collaborators have broad-based biodiversity enhancement and conservation ranged from international groups, like the Audubon Society, to education activities on corporate landholdings. a local horticulturalist known as “The Garden Lady.” In 2023, our work in the region earned the Clean Biz Award from Keep • Developing a STEM education program in conjunction with Louisiana Beautiful. Conservation milestones in Papua New""
""Guinea Our affiliate supported this effort for more than a decade through collaboration, engagement, and facilitation. Our affiliate’s operations in the country encompass areas of high biodiversity significance and conservation value. In fact, the project’s upstream area4 is deemed to be critical habitat. The overall objective of the biodiversity strategy is to retain the biodiversity value of the upstream area for the long-term by: • Maintaining the integrity of the ecosystem in the project’s""
""upstream area. • Conserving priority ecosystems such as the Hides Ridge and Lake Kutubu areas. • Protecting focal habitats and significant ecological features In 2023, 109 clans in the Lower Kikori came together for such as caves and swamp forests. the signing of 11 conservation deeds to preserve more than • Identifying and offsetting significant residual impacts such 20,000 hectares of land in the PNG’s Gulf Province – a record- as land cover changes from the installation of pipelines and""
""breaking achievement for the region. These deeds serve as a roads. legal mechanism to create formal protected areas in the Kikori Delta area. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 21 Working together to support biodiversity We work with local education and research institutions, and we and concepts to avoid, manage, and mitigate impacts on participate in community programs to: biodiversity. • Promote conservation of native species. In Papua New Guinea, our affiliate works with the New Guinea""
""Binatang Research Centre to enhance conservation capacity • Support field surveys and collection of data. for practitioners with certificate training through to post-grad • Increase awareness and engagement. Ph.D. programs. For example, five people representing the 109 clans who signed the conservation deeds received ranger • Improve biodiversity management. training in 2022. In 2023 and in 2024, we took part in Ipieca’s Biodiversity We also support NatureServe in its mission to leverage the and""
""Ecosystem Services (BES) Peer-to-Peer Workshop, an power of science, data, and technology to guide biodiversity industry-wide forum to share knowledge and build capabilities conservation and stewardship. In 2023 and in 2024, the grants among member companies. More than 100 environmental and were focused on research and development related to the biodiversity practitioners from around the world participated scalability of biodiversity indicators and the technology to make in these workshops,""
""contributing good practices, tools, data more easily usable by practitioners. 30+ years of habitat conservation with the Wildlife Habitat Council We are a founding member of the Wildlife Habitat Council, The WHC Certification® is a voluntary sustainability standard which combined with the World Enviroment Center to designed for: form Tandem Global in 2025. For more than three decades, • Broad-based biodiversity enhancement. we have worked with the council to promote sustainability, •""
""Conservation education activities. wildlife preservation, biodiversity, and conservation education at our sites. These projects vary from large-scale • Corporate landholdings. habitat restoration to community nature outings. Pollinator gardens and Rosate Spoonbill at Moose and wildlife Sawmill Creek trout pond community awareness our Sorrento salt dome management at our voluntarily constructed at our ExxonMobil Baton storage facility in Imperial Oil Cold Lake for natural spawning Rouge Arboretum""
""and Louisiana. site. of the Colorado River Learning Center. Cutthroat Trout at our Black Canyon Facility. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 22 “I’m proud to be part of a company that works hard to understand the environments where we operate, including biodiversity and the benefits that ecosystems provide. Our people care for the land and habitats around our sites, and you can see that in their actions.” Ram Narayan Chair: Ipieca Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services Working Group Member:""
""Wildlife Habitat Council Executive Advisory Committee Ram, our Principal of Land and Biodiversity (Onshore), leads the integration of biodiversity considerations into our environmental risk management for projects and sites. Footnotes for Caring for land and biodiversity 1 Critical habitats, as described by the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standard 6 (PS6) on Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Management of Living Natural Resources (IFC, 2012a), are areas with high""
""development phase to include onshore and offshore, oil and gas production facilities, refineries and manufacturing sites, upstream central facilities, and gas plants.” (Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry (4th edition, 2020, revised February 2023) developed by Ipieca, the American Petroleum Institute and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers). 3 Protected Area, Key Biodiversity Area, and Species data reproduced and incorporated under license from the""
""Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool (IBAT) (https://www. ibat-alliance.org/). IBAT is provided by BirdLife International, Conservation International, IUCN and UNEP-WCMC. Contact ibat@ibat-alliance.org for further data. 4 The upstream area covers the Hela, Southern Highlands, Western and Gulf provinces of Papua New Guinea. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 23 Pursuing environmental excellence Conserving water resources Water is vital. It’s an essential resource for the world’s""
""ecosystems, human development, and life itself. It’s also finite – and as populations grow, so will demand for water. Each community and ecosystem is different. Understanding has the potential to pose business continuity and other risks. water stress and our potential impacts at the local level is an That’s why we need resilient water systems for our operations. important part of how we enhance our risk management to We engage externally to gain insights and perspectives into Protect Tomorrow.""
""Today. water risks in the areas where we operate, and we consider these in our project designs and practices. Without water, we would not be able to operate our sites and meet society’s needs for energy and products. Water scarcity United Nations Sustainable Development Goals related to this content. Our approach We strive to be a leader in safeguarding water resources. Our priority is the quality and supply of freshwater in the communities and environments where we work. We focus on prudently""
""managing and monitoring the water we use. Through our water stewardship efforts, we seek to: • Help protect the health of people and the environment. • Continuously improve our capabilities and performance. • Consider local water needs as we meet the needs of • Engage externally on water solutions. our operations. Our overall water management process is consistent with Ipieca’s Water Management Framework. Water use at ExxonMobil We use water in many aspects of our business, such as cooling Our""
""Project Environmental Standard for Water Management machinery and making steam. We withdraw or purchase fresh, establishes requirements for water sourcing and wastewater brackish, and saline water across our operations. This includes treatment. We hold ourselves to these internal standards which upstream exploration and production, downstream refining set requirements when a country has no water-use standards and chemicals production, and our growing Low Carbon or less-stringent standards than""
""our own expectations. Solutions business. When sourcing water for operations, we consider local needs and available sources of supply. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 24 Assessing and managing water risk We use a number of tools to assess water risks and scarcity, In 2022, we piloted our Water Aspect Assessment Tool to including local assessments and the World Resources Institute strengthen our focus on water risks and embedded the tool AqueductTM (WRI) Water Risk Atlas (WRI tool).""
""Informed into our Project Environmental Standards and Environmental by our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) Aspects Assessment process in 2024. This tool has helped us framework and Environmental Aspects Guide, we consider the clarify our understanding of water availability (quantity and unique traits of each asset and location, including biodiversity quality), accessibility, and dimensions of water-related risks and other environmental factors. beyond water stress. With this""
""understanding, we seek to reduce total water use and Identifying and managing risks related to water supply and impacts to freshwater-dependent ecosystems through tactics quality is especially important in areas of water stress. Water that include: stress is defined by measuring the ratio of water withdrawals to available renewable water supplies. We estimate that • Water conservation technologies. about 19% of the freshwater volume we withdraw is from • Use of alternative sources. water-""
""stressed areas, based on analysis using the WRI tool. • Recycling of municipal and industrial wastewater. This represents a 10% increase since our last report, driven by Throughout the life of an asset or project, our Environmental ongoing portfolio optimization efforts including the acquisition Aspects Guide informs our efforts. We research and analyze of Pioneer and the divestment of some assets. By site, this our operations to continuously improve the processes and represents about 29% of our""
""locations.1 technologies we use. “Water is local and even personal. Communities need water to thrive, and we cannot run our company without water, so we need to focus on using it responsibly.” Cynthia Wagener, P.E. Member: API Clean Water Issues Group Vice Chair, API Upstream Water Issues Group Co-Chair, Ipieca Water Stewardship Task Force, American Chemistry Council Water Stewardship Team Cynthia is our Water Resource Principal Engineer who leads our water management efforts and works across""
""our operations on site-specific strategies for water conservation. Site-specific strategies We consider many factors in our approach at a given process or In Singapore, most of the water used by our affiliate’s site, including local water availability, quality, and environmental manufacturing and refining complex is wastewater that is impact. At selected water-stressed sites, this includes assessing reclaimed and treated by the country’s national water agency. actual costs and potential""
""tradeoffs, such as reduced efficiency, The facility’s “membrane biological reactor” enables additional higher energy use, or more concentrated waste streams. reuse in on-site operations by using microorganisms to break down and separate waste. In 2023, we began working with outside experts on an in- depth analysis of key operating sites in areas of potential future At our Baytown petrochemical complex in Texas, we started water stress. At these sites and others, we are developing projects and""
""initiatives to address changes to our water thorough water balances to gain further clarity on our water supply, informed in part by our engagement with the Texas use. This work informs our efforts to develop water roadmaps Water Development Board. In support of the Houston Metro that outline opportunities to reduce freshwater intake for select Area’s water management plans, we continue to advance the major operated facilities.2 infrastructure needed to shift sourcing from the San Jacinto River""
""to the saltier Trinity River.3 ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 25 Across our upstream portfolio, our wells are designed and to keep fluids contained. In addition, well completions using constructed to promote integrity and help protect the water hydraulic fracturing are closely monitored to manage the table. Layers of steel and cement form protective barriers pressures within the well, based on parameters set in our between our subsurface pipes and underground aquifers project designs.""
""Spotlight: The Permian Basin and the Pioneer acquisition In the Permian Basin and elsewhere in our operations, we Our water management roadmap helps us plan for future collaborate with industry members, technology solution Permian Basin development over the next 10 years. providers, researchers, and regulators to help improve industry Implemented in 2021, it helps us identify opportunities to water management. reduce freshwater intake and manage disposal. The roadmap informs our efforts to""
""achieve industry-leading performance In 2024, more than a quarter of our global oil and natural on water management. We plan to update the roadmap as gas production came from the Permian Basin. As we work needed.4 to responsibly develop our assets in the region, we strive to safeguard the availability and quality of its water sources. In 2024, we acquired Pioneer Natural Resources Company. Using the newly combined operating capabilities and In the Permian Basin, we aim to reduce the withdrawal""
""from infrastructure, ExxonMobil expects to increase the amount of natural water resources and mitigate risks from water use in recycled produced water used in its Permian Basin hydraulic our operations. To do this, we seek to: fracturing operations to more than 90% by 2030.5 • Prioritize sourcing from recycled produced water to The company has made significant progress in reducing conserve resources of fresh and brackish water. freshwater dependence in the region, increasing our use • Diversify""
""water disposal through innovative technology. of recycled produced water in our hydraulic fracturing • Maximize opportunities to reuse treated produced water, operations from 64% in 2022 to 87% in 2024. Reclaimed applying our capabilities in risk management, research, and and brackish sources made up an additional 11%.6 All technology. told, recycled produced, brackish, and reclaimed sources • Support local and regional water conservation efforts, such comprised 98% of water we used in our""
""hydraulic fracturing as those of the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation’s operations in the region. Pecos Watershed Conservation Initiative. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 26 Strategic collaborations Universities, governments, and others in our industry help inform how we manage water risks today and study opportunities for the future. Through collaborations like these, our engineers and scientists assess new wastewater technologies, evaluate current infrastructure, and develop ways""
""to improve our performance. We collaborate with multiple third-party groups, including: • The National Alliance for Water Innovation, based at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, works on advanced technologies to desalinate produced water. • The New Mexico Produced Water Research Consortium and Texas Produced Water Consortium is developing risk frameworks to assess the potential for beneficial reuse of treated produced water. • The NEWT Center for Nanotechnology Enabled Water Treatment is""
""working to solve water treatment needs by applying nanoscale science and engineering. • The Texas Partnership for Forests and Water, a statewide collaborative led by Texas A&M Forest Service, works to conserve and improve forested watersheds across the state. Footnotes for Conserving water resources 1 ExxonMobil full-year 2024 performance data as of March 24, 2025, and World Resources Institute AqueductTM Water Risk Atlas accessed on March 24, 2025. For more information on the tool, visit""
""www.wri.org/aqueduct. We categorize “water-stressed areas” as high, extremely high, or arid stress levels identified by this WRI tool and exclude sites that withdraw less than 500,000 barrels per year. 2 Roadmaps aim to identify opportunities for selected operated sites, which are subject to change as a result of multiple factors, including the company’s planning process, supportive government policy, and/or technology developments. 3 Texas Water Development Board, Region H Water Planning Group,""
""2021 Regional Water Management Plan Volume 1 Section 11.2.4, available at www.twdb.texas.gov/ waterplanning/rwp/plans/2021. 4 This water management roadmap identifies opportunities in the Permian Basin, which are subject to change as a result of a number of factors, including the Company’s planning process, supportive government policy, and/or technology developments. 5 In our combined Permian Basin operations, recycled produced water includes water from ExxonMobil and other oil & gas operators""
""in the region. 6 Reclaimed water includes treated municipal and industrial wastewater. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 27 Pursuing environmental excellence Improving air quality As we work to meet the world’s needs for energy and products, we maintain a focus on reducing emissions from our operations. Greenhouse gases (GHGs) are not the full story of air In the Permian Basin, we are electrifying more of our emissions. Our “Improving air quality” focus area covers operations. Replacing""
""gas-engine driven compressors with other types of emissions, like nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur electric alternatives, for example, reduces combustion NOx oxides (SOx), and volatile organic compounds (VOCs) at our emissions, as well as fugitive methane and associated VOCs. operated assets. We have also eliminated routine flaring in our heritage For new projects, we apply our air emissions Project operated assets in the Permian Basin in line with the World Environmental Standards. Existing""
""operations regularly review Bank’s Zero Routine Flaring Initiative.1 Reducing flaring further opportunities to reduce air emissions. reduces associated NOx emissions. Further, our corporate-wide initiatives to reduce GHG emissions intensity have the potential for additional reductions in non-GHG emissions. Our approach Clean air is important to the health of our communities and the environment. Our approach to air quality management includes: • Understanding the composition and extent of our""
""emissions. • Meeting or exceeding regulatory requirements. • Reducing air emissions to minimize potential impacts on local communities. • Monitoring science and health standards related to air quality. • Working with regulatory agencies to assess and address potential air quality issues. We are guided by our Environment Policy, the standards set by our Project Environmental Standards, and the expectations in our Operations Integrity Management System. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 28""
""0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 ‘19 ‘20 ‘21 ‘22 ‘23 ‘24 Year Spotlight: Gregory-Portland Air Monitoring Program At the Gulf Coast Growth Ventures joint venture that we the area ranks in or near the top 10% compared to data operate near Corpus Christi, Texas, the Gregory-Portland measured at the 40 monitors located throughout the state and community has seen little to no change in air quality since operated or funded by the Texas Commission on operations began.4 Environmental Quality. Through""
""three community stations, The University of Texas has This data is provided by the Gregory-Portland Air Monitoring continuously monitored the area’s air quality since January Program and analysis is shared with local residents via direct 2020. The Gregory-Portland area continues to meet quality mail and a regularly updated website, maintained by a third- standards set by federal and state agencies. Analysis by the party affiliated with the University of Texas. University of Texas at Austin shows""
""that the overall air quality in Footnotes for Improving air quality 1 Reference to routine flaring herein is consistent with the World Bank’s Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 Initiative/Global Gas Flaring Reduction Partnership’s principle of routine flaring and excludes safety and non-routine flaring. Heritage Permian refers to Permian Basin assets prior to the acquisition of Pioneer that closed in May 2024. 2 Air emissions performance data includes recent acquisitions (Denbury data beginning""
""November 2, 2023, and Pioneer data beginning May 3, 2024). 3 Historical performance data for NOx reflects a change in methodology for estimating NOx emissions from certain combustion equipment based on manufacturer performance data. 4 Based on 2020-2023 data as published in Gregory-Portland Air Monitoring Program Air Quality Report Card, Spring 2024; 2024 data not available at time of publication. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 29 snot cirtem noilliM Air emissions performance data NOx""
""SOx VOC Air emissions from ExxonMobil operated assets only From 2016 to 2024, total reportable emissions of VOCs, SOx, and NOx decreased by about 25% at operated assets.2 Lower energy demand during the global pandemic had a direct impact on air emissions. However, our emission-reduction efforts also enabled us to keep these emissions below pre-pandemic levels, even as our throughput increased to record highs. For historical data on our air emissions, please see the performance data table.3""
""Pursuing environmental excellence Minimizing operational waste Everyone at ExxonMobil plays a role in reducing operational waste. And the first step is finding ways to avoid it entirely. For a more in-depth analysis, visit: https://gpair.ceer.utexas.edu/ Our use of a waste mitigation hierarchy prioritizes waste avoidance when feasible. When it’s not, we work to reduce, recover, or reuse waste whenever possible. We aim to dispose of waste only if other options have been exhausted, and we have""
""robust processes to select waste sites that meet our high standards and expectations. We regularly review and improve methods for managing waste at our facilities. On-site waste personnel are trained on effective waste controls, applicable regulations, and our own environmental practices. Corporate and regional staff provide technical guidance on waste reduction and recycling opportunities. Our approach We work to avoid generating waste and take a broad range of measures to mitigate and""
""eliminate waste that is generated. What is a waste mitigation hierarchy? To do that, we use a waste mitigation hierarchy that starts with waste avoidance. A waste mitigation hierarchy is commonly used by businesses, governments, and even individuals to prioritize waste We are committed to the management and treatment management practices to minimize waste. of waste in a manner that incorporates industry best practices. It consists of five stages: These measures include source reduction, reuse,""
""Avoid waste: Facilities are designed and operated to be efficient recycling, reclamation, handling, storage, and and to optimize the materials and feedstocks used. transportation, as well as treatment and/or disposal Reduce | Recover | Reuse: Systems are in place to separate oil of any remaining waste in compliance with applicable from water and solids, so oil is recovered and water is reused. regulations. Where practical, waste materials are collected and sent for reuse, such as making fuel.""
""Recycle: Through the waste segregation processes, we collect materials like paper, plastic, electronics, aluminum, used oil, filters, glycols, scrap metal, tires, batteries, and aerosol cans to be recycled. Treat: Where appropriate, impacted soil and groundwater at our operating and surplus sites are treated to reduce waste volume or eliminate contaminants. We continuously look for ways to minimize waste through practices like process changes; raw material changes; material handling, storage,""
""and transportation; as well as treatment and/or disposal of any remaining waste in compliance with United Nations Sustainable Development Goals related to this content. applicable regulations. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 30 Spotlight - Operation Clean Sweep (OCS): Best-in-class containment The joint venture we operate Gulf Coast Growth Ventures • Pellet inceptors at the site outfalls. near Corpus Christi, Texas, uses extensive controls designed • Interior unit collection systems. to""
""prevent “nurdles”– the pellets created in our manufacturing • Pellet handling enclosures. of plastics – from escaping to the environment. These controls include: The site has maintained a record of zero reportable pellet discharges under OCS Blue reporting standards since beginning operations.1 Project Waste Management Standard Zero Waste to Landfill In 2018, ExxonMobil’s global network of lubricants blending Our Project Waste Management Standard, part of our overall and packaging plants, which""
""manufacture all Mobil-branded Project Environmental Standards, informs our project selection lubricant products, earned a Zero Waste to Landfill Silver and design decisions. These standards help us to: validation from Underwriters Laboratories. ExxonMobil was • Ensure we have infrastructure in place to manage, treat, and the first petroleum products company to achieve this validation. dispose of waste from project construction and operations. In the past two assessments, the global lubes network""
""has • Reduce the quantity of waste and the potential hazards achieved Gold validation by demonstrating a more than associated with a project. 95% diversion rate through our efforts to reduce, reuse, and recycle. Solutions as simple as repair and reuse of container • Promote waste minimization, recycling, and reuse pallets and as complex as an advanced distillation process to throughout the life of an asset. recover laboratory solvent have enabled us to redeploy to new, productive uses more than""
""50,000 tons of waste produced per year. Waste Facility Risk Assessment Program Supplier waste management We are committed to using third-party waste facilities that We aim to work with our suppliers to identify ways to follow industry best practices for waste management and reduce environmental impacts. Our global sourcing strategy environmental protection. Through our Waste Facility Risk encourages consideration of environmental performance Assessment Program, we evaluate selected waste""
""facilities in including finding and reducing waste and inefficiency in our most countries where we operate to make sure they meet our supply chain. requirements. Facilities are reviewed by internal experts or assessed by independent contractors. Areas of evaluation include: • Facility design and operations • Management systems • Regulatory compliance history • Community relations • Financial capacity • Site geology and groundwater • Groundwater • Safety • Security In 2024, 80% of the waste from""
""our operated assets and remediation activities was managed by third-party facilities assessed by independent evaluators. We expect this number to increase as the audit program grows. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 31 Decommissioning and rehabilitation Decommissioning is the process of dismantling, removing and/ production systems, plugging wells, dismantling structures, and or finding alternative uses for facilities. Detailed planning and transporting, recycling, or disposing of""
""materials, and restoring preparation can start up to 10 years before decommissioning local habitats. activities begin. In 2024, we developed five decommissioning principles for Each site is unique. Our approach may vary by location, both onshore and offshore, reflecting our comprehensive type of asset, and local environmental and socioeconomic approach. These were rolled out to our decommissioning characteristics. The decommissioning process can include practitioners company-wide in 2025. a""
""range of activities such as emptying and cleaning of Our decommissioning principles Safety & environment Local workforce and Best available science Balanced approach Honor obligations communities Our decommissioning plans incorporate applicable regulatory abandoned, onshore processing plants were dismantled, and requirements and globally accepted practices. We aim to be offshore and onshore pipelines were cleaned and flushed. responsive to concerns and opportunities identified through That same""
""year, all seven of Sable’s offshore platforms were external engagements and integrate the results into our removed, and about 99% of the materials were recycled. decommissioning plans where appropriate. In 2024, nearly 17% of the material generated from Decommissioning an offshore asset can be complex and decommissioning our significant onshore projects was diverted present unique challenges. At these assets, our plans consider from landfills.2 specific marine ecosystems and facility""
""characteristics, including complexity, size, and weight. Rehabilitation is the process of safely repurposing assets that no longer support our operations. Our goal is to prevent legacy The Sable energy project in Canada, for example, started its impacts on the environment while creating opportunities for life in late 1959, when exploration near Nova Scotia began. beneficial reuse. As Canada’s first offshore natural gas project, Sable provided decades of strategic benefits and billions of dollars""
""of economic benefits to the region. By 2020, wells were plugged and When divesting real property, we work to identify ways to return it to beneficial reuse. ExxonMobil Environmental and Property Solutions (E&PS) is our global organization that supports the remediation and stewardship of surplus onshore sites. From the group’s creation in 2008 through 2024, E&PS has managed more than $9.3 billion of onshore remediation work and returned 4,000 properties to beneficial end uses. In 2024, E&PS""
""managed approximately 3,400 active remediation onshore sites in 22 countries. Beginning in 2025, the acquired assets from Denbury and Pioneer will be incorporated into our portfolio as we continue the integration into our business. Footnotes for Minimizing operational waste 1 For more details visit OCS Blue - Operation Clean Sweep 2 Does not include Denbury or Pioneer data. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 32 Meeting society’s critical needs for energy and products Supporting a just""
""transition As we work to be a leader in a thoughtful energy transition, we will continue to develop our workforce, empower local economic growth, mitigate impacts of our operations, and engage with and support our communities. Our company has been in a continuous state of evolution and transition since it was founded. Having a workforce capable of developing and leading new businesses to meet society’s evolving needs is how we have prospered for more than 140 years. United Nations Sustainable""
""Development Goals related to this content. Our approach Where there is energy poverty, there is poverty. To be just, any approach to an energy transition must address society’s need for energy. Guided by principles supporting a just transition, like those of Ipieca and the International Labour Organization, ExxonMobil aims to: • Respect human rights in our operations. • Create value for customers, partners, and communities. • Provide employees with unrivaled opportunities for growth with""
""impactful work. • Manage environmental and socioeconomic impacts throughout asset lifecycles. • Engage with employees and communities in efforts to improve quality of life and foster mutual understanding and trust. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 33 Positioned to lead in an energy transition competitive advantages. The integration of our business, and the flexibility it gives us to pursue new technologies and Sustained emissions reductions require a thoughtful and markets, is another.""
""comprehensive approach. One that: In this regard, we have always been engaged in what is now • Balances benefits and costs. referred to as a “just transition.” Our employees are well • Is sensitive to society’s needs. positioned to play meaningful roles in a traditional energy business that will be vital for decades to come AND play an • Avoids economic hardship, market disruptions, and energy equally important role in the lower carbon emissions portfolio and product shortages. we are hard at""
""work building. Accomplishing this and moving society toward a net-zero In many cases, the “transition” is minimal, such as moving from future will require unprecedented collaboration at scale. As we conventional fuels to biofuels. In others, we use our capabilities work to Protect Tomorrow. Today., we consider the impact on to innovate new processes, like drilling for lithium using our workers, communities, supply chains, consumers, and broader experience with oil or natural gas. In areas like""
""carbon capture economic development. and storage, we are expanding efforts we’ve been working on Our Global Outlook estimates that more than 4 billion people for more than 40 years and supporting a larger workforce as still lack access to reliable energy for housing, infrastructure, this part of our business grows. jobs, and mobility. Providing for these basic energy needs is a Our commitment to our employees and the communities in must to meet the United Nations’ goal to “end poverty in all its""
""which we live and work has been on display since the 19th forms everywhere.” And as a society, it’s our challenge to meet century – proving to our employees and their friends, families, these needs while reducing emissions globally and managing and neighbors that we care about them, value the work they the impacts of these actions on people. do, and are committed to developing them for the duration of Our culture of innovation and many decades of experience, their careers. At ExxonMobil, that is""
""need, lead in reducing our own and others’ greenhouse institutions, governments, businesses, and NGOs to support gas emissions, and deliver on our strategic objectives. these objectives. We operate facilities and market products across the globe. In our Low Carbon Solutions business and across the company, Our standards, systems, processes, and programs help us to we apply our integrated environmental and socioeconomic understand and manage risks and opportunities within the management approach.""
""This supports our efforts to proactively unique context of each location, from developing economies identify and address potential socioeconomic risks and focused on energy security to communities with established opportunities. We update our assessments and management workforces seeking new opportunities. plans as needed to reflect changes to our operations or characteristics of a community. We invest in and support employees for the long-term. We also work to contribute to the progress and""
""prosperity of our Our employees Many of the capabilities and skills of today’s workforce are businesses: Upstream, Product Solutions, and Low Carbon critical for an energy transition. In fact, our work to reduce Solutions. This structure provides employees with greater emissions is largely grounded in the transferable skillsets access to growth opportunities, broadening their experiences already present in our traditional businesses. and capabilities for future roles. “Meaningful development” is""
""one of our five strategic priorities. Our Low Carbon Solutions business includes employees We have a proven, long-term commitment to developing with decades of experience at our company or elsewhere in employees – our career-oriented approach to talent the oil and natural gas industry, as well as functional experts development results in strong retention and an average length who bring outside-in thinking. New employees are offered of service of about 30 years for our career employees. We are""
""onboarding and technical training, and leaders within the proud of this commitment and are determined to maintain it. business line host regular sessions open to all employees designed to increase awareness of objectives and performance, In 2022, we reorganized around three integrated core ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 34 provide expertise on variety of topics related to the business, • When the Altona refinery was converted to a fuel import and seek feedback from the broader""
""core capabilities for hydrogen At our plant in Baytown, Texas, we’re investing in virtually carbon-free hydrogen (with approximately 98% of the carbon captured and stored). Tina Joseph, Baytown Hydrogen Project Manager, is a chemical engineer with a wealth of experience in our “I am able to leverage my planning and projects skills from upstream business. She leads a team developing the front- prior Upstream roles for this incredible project that will help end engineering design and execution""
""plans for the Baytown deliver a low-carbon future. Working at ExxonMobil, I get to Hydrogen plant. Currently under design, the plant could work with such high-caliber and driven people on a project of produce up to 1 billion cubic feet of hydrogen per day. this scale.” Our communities We believe that respecting human rights, managing community and culturally appropriate, providing accessible and inclusive impacts, and making valued social investments are essential to channels for communication.""
""enhance benefits, support investments, avoid delays, and address their concerns. remedy impacts, and embrace opportunities at the local level. We also identify and consult with potentially disadvantaged Additional information can be found in the Managing communities to understand possible barriers to their active socioeconomic impacts section of our Sustainability Report. engagement. We work to tailor our engagements to be locally Our supply chain We understand the importance of building and""
""maintaining a This approach helps to make a positive impact on communities qualified and competitive supply chain where we operate. As by building long-term, local economic capacity in support of a with our workforce, many of the goods and services essential just energy transition. It also contributes to the objectives of the for our business today are the same ones needed in the future. U.N. Sustainable Development Goals. As part of our supply chain portfolio, we purchase goods and Additional""
""information can be found in the Contributing to the services from local, small, and diverse suppliers and, where well-being of communities section of our Sustainability Report. appropriate, work to build their capabilities through local programs to increase competition and innovation. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 35 Industry collaboration We have a long history of collaborating fostering a diverse, inclusive, and resilient workforce. API offers with universities, national""
""“Business leadership on the Many of our collaborations with universities and Global Stocktake: catalysing investment while prioritising a others are described in our Advancing Climate just transition.” This work builds upon recent work like the Solutions, Sustainability, and Investing in People reports. We task force’s just transition literature review and its statement also leverage the scale of our industry through participation on accelerating a just transition, which was developed in in""
""trade associations and by expanding high-quality consultation with member companies and external industry collaborations with local community and technical colleges. stakeholders. The American Petroleum Institute (API) is an example of an industry association investing in the future of energy by ExxonMobil chairs the Just Transition Task Force within Ipieca, which is “the global oil and gas association for advancing environmental and social performance across the energy transition.” The task""
""force supports the industry’s participation in international collaboration to transition to a lower-carbon world in a way that’s just and fair for workforces, communities, and consumers. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 36 Meeting society’s critical needs for energy and products Expanding the plastics life cycle Plastics make modern life possible – and they’re too valuable to waste. Plastic products help defend against disease, preserve food, footprint than alternatives. A recent""
""U.S.-based study found and are used in medical equipment that saves lives. that polyethylene (PE) packaging - the most widely used plastic packaging - can reduce lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions by As described in our Global Outlook, prosperity and population up to 70% compared to alternative materials like glass, paper, are expected to grow around the world between now and and aluminum.1 2050. Plastics will be instrumental in supporting many of the United Nations Sustainable Development""
""Goals, including In transportation, plastics enable lighter vehicles, driving a 6% good health, food preservation, and clean drinking water. to 8% fuel efficiency gain for every 10% reduction in weight.2 The electric vehicle industry also relies on plastics to produce As living standards increase, plastics allow society to do more lightweight cars to extend battery range. with less material and often with a smaller environmental Our approach To meet society’s evolving needs, our efforts are""
""focused both on enabling the societal benefits plastics provide and helping address the global issue of plastic waste. Our approach includes: • Expanding our advanced recycling capacity to help further broaden the range of plastics that can be recycled; • Developing plastic solutions that enable our customers to make products that use less plastic; and • Supporting improvements in plastic waste recovery, gathering, and sorting. In agriculture, the plastic films made from our polymers support""
""farming around the world by enabling: • Durable solutions for greenhouses that help farmers grow their crops all year long. • Long-lasting mulch solutions that use less material and help increase crop production rates by reducing the frequent need to collect and replace used plastic film. • Tough, puncture-resistant films for grain silos to reduce loss and spoilage. Plastics are increasingly society’s material of choice due to their functional benefits and have overall lower life cycle""
""greenhouse gas emissions compared to alternative materials in most applications. Even lower-demand scenarios like the International Energy Agency’s Net Zero by 2050 (IEA NZE) project growth in plastics. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 37 Supporting a more circular economy for plastics with advanced recycling Mismanaged plastic waste is a global problem. We believe that With advanced recycling, plastic waste is broken down at the a more circular economy for plastics is an important part""
""of the molecular level. This allows even complex blends of plastics to solution. be turned back into usable raw materials. These are identical to the raw materials produced during the processing of fossil- Around the world, only about 9% of all plastics are recycled.3 based feedstocks and can be used to make a wide range Even in areas with better waste and recycling infrastructure, of valuable products, including fuels, lubricants, and high- like the European Union, less than 27% of plastic""
""waste is performance chemicals and plastics. recycled4 once it leaves consumers’ hands. The rest is burned for energy, goes to landfills, or is discarded to the environment. ExxonMobil’s technology for advanced recycling is not burning waste, which would consume the molecules and make it There are better uses for these materials. impossible to make new products out of them. Instead, we use a technology called “pyrolysis” to convert about 90% of the We are helping to address the plastic waste""
""challenge processed plastic waste into usable raw materials – a highly through advanced recycling (sometimes called chemical efficient process. For every ton of certified-circular plastics recycling) – giving plastic waste another life as new products sold, more than a ton of plastic waste avoids other end-of-life that people need. dispositions like landfill or incineration.5 Many products are difficult to recycle through mechanical For every ton of plastic waste processed through recycling –""
""the traditional method of grinding and melting advanced recycling, society reduces the need to process plastic waste. But when both are used, mechanical recycling and advanced recycling could enable more types of plastic ~1t on of fossil-derived waste to be recycled. feedstocks.6 Fossil-based feedstock Advanced recycling Plastic waste is co-processed alongside Attribution fossil-based feedstocks and broken down The amount of usable raw at a molecular level to produce materials made from plastic""
""virgin-quality raw materials that can be waste is attributed to made into valuable products. certified-circular plastics via a mass balance approach*. Collection & preparation Plastic waste is collected, sorted and pre-processed Certified - circular for recycling. plastics* Customers recieve a certificate of circularity that matches the volume of their certified-circular plastic purchase to a corresponding amount of plastic waste that was transformed into usable raw materiales. Consumers Plastic""
""products deliver benefits that help make modern life possible. Plastic products *ISCC PLUS mass balance Customers can use Waste certified-circular plastics* to approach using the “determined by Most plastic is discarded make products like electronics, mass” option with “certified free as waste at end of life packaging and car parts. attribution” applied. Does not represent GHG emissions or recycled content. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 38 We sell certified-circular plastics""
""corresponding to the amount paying for that energy to be generated and added to the grid, of plastic waste we transform back into usable raw materials. but the electricity that reaches your house might come from a We do this using a mass balance approach that has been used mix of sources. in other industries for many years. Our advanced recycling facilities and process are certified What is mass balance? In short, it is an accounting process via an independent, third-party certification system""
""called that can be used in complex value chains like ours in which one International Sustainability and Carbon Certification (ISCC) input (e.g., plastic waste) is mixed with other inputs in a way PLUS. ISCC is an association of more than 240 members, that the different inputs cannot be physically traced throughout including research institutes and NGOs. the system. This widely used approach helps our customers The certificate we provide our customers is not a claim that our match the volume of""
""their certified-circular plastic purchase to certified-circular plastics contain specific amounts of “recycled a corresponding amount of plastic waste that we transformed content” or carry GHG benefits. Rather, it represents an into usable raw materials through advanced recycling. assurance that we followed a rigorous mass balance attribution Similar concepts are used in other sectors to help customers system that is certified by a third-party. This enables us to be and society keep track of""
""their impact. For example, if you transparent about our products, helping our customers, and buy “renewable energy” from your electricity provider, you’re their customers, progress and communicate circularity goals. Scaling up capacity to meet growing demand There is rising demand from consumers and customers for We are continuing to develop additional advanced recycling circularity, far more than mechanical recycling can provide. projects at manufacturing sites in North America, Europe and""
""Purchasing certified-circular plastics can enable our customers Asia, with the goal of reaching 1 billion pounds per year of to achieve circularity goals, such as: advanced recycling capacity globally. • Unlocking the value of plastic waste by converting it into useful raw materials; • Monetizing the value of plastic waste to drive better collection and sorting; • Contributing to the growth of the recycling sector; and • Accelerating plastic recycling rates. We are uniquely positioned with our""
""scale, integration, and technology to rapidly expand advanced recycling capacity and help meet the needs of our customers and communities. Customers so far include Sealed Air, Ahold Delhaize, Berry Global, Pactiv Evergreen, and Amcor, all supporting a more circular economy for food packaging. Our Baytown advanced recycling facility started up commercial-scale operations in December 2022. In late 2024, we announced plans to invest more than $200 million to expand advanced recycling operations in""
""Baytown and Beaumont, Texas. The investment will add 350 million pounds per year of advanced recycling capacity at these two sites, bringing our total capacity to 500 million pounds per year. As of December 2024, our Baytown site has processed more than 80 million pounds of end-of-life plastic – with more to come as we collaborate to get more plastic collected, sorted, and ready to process. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 39 Increasing recycling rates through collaboration and innovation""
""Like most complex environmental challenges, broad Cyclyx Circularity Center (CCC). This first-of-its-kind plastic collaboration is needed to address the issue of mismanaged waste processing facility will have the capacity to produce waste. This includes sound policy and investment in waste- 300 million pounds of plastic feedstock per year to be used in management infrastructure. Through organizations such as the both advanced and mechanical recycling of post-consumer, Alliance to End Plastic""
""Waste, we collaborate across the value commercial, and industrial plastic waste. As a founding member chain to increase plastic waste collection and sorting to help of the Houston Recycling Collaboration, ExxonMobil is working support a more circular economy for plastics. with others in industry and government to increase access to plastic recycling in the Houston area in support of the CCC. In December 2023, Cyclyx, our joint venture with Agilyx Corp. and LyondellBasell, announced plans to""
""build its first Responsible manufacturing: the right products the right way Our VistmaxxTM performance polymers make recycling easier and facilities in place to collect plastic film, even by traditional by making polyethylene and polypropylene more compatible, recyclers, as certified by TÜV Rheinland, a global leader in which allows them to “mix in the melt” and removes the inspection services. need for mechanical recyclers to separate these materials for processing. Our efforts are further""
""supported by our systems to responsibly manage plastics manufacturing, including the global standards Collaboration, again, leads to even better results. For example, we have set across all of our resin-handling operations. These ExxonMobil Asia Pacific Research & Development Co., Ltd standards are more stringent than the laws and regulations partnered with Shantou Mingca Packaging earlier this year on related to plastic pellet loss in many of the places we operate, an ultra-low density shrink""
""film that can be manufactured with and we collaborate with industry through Operation Clean minimal adjustments in production lines. More importantly, Sweep-Blue to share best practices.7 it can be more easily recycled in communities with programs Footnotes for Expanding the plastics life cycle 1 Based on the 2025 study “Polyethylene packaging and alternative materials in the United States: A life cycle assessment” (Science of the Total Environment). Full study:""
""https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0048969724085176?via%3Dihub. 2 Department of Energy statements at https://www.energy.gov/eere/vehicles/lightweight-materials-cars-and-trucks. 3 Based on OECD Global Plastics Outlook: https://www.oecd.org/content/dam/oecd/en/publications/reports/2022/02/global-plastics-outlook_a653d1c9/de747aef-en.pdf 4 Plastics Europe: The Circular Economy for Plastics: A European Analysis 5 Certified-circular plastics are virgin-quality plastics that are""
""accompanied by a certificate that matches the mass of virgin quality plastics that we sell to a corresponding amount of plastic waste that we transformed back into usable raw materials through advanced recycling. 6 On a global, macroeconomic basis, assuming constant demand. 7 Pellet loss refers to the unintended release of plastic resin into the environment during manufacturing, transportation, handling, or processing. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 40 Meeting society’s critical needs""
""share what we know. We factor in relevant data about health, environmental exposure, and use of our products. This information is communicated to employees and customers to help mitigate potential impacts of our products. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals related to this content. Our approach • We aim to provide the energy and products the world needs in a way that helps to protect human health and the environment. • Our scientists are at the forefront of product safety research. We""
""work to identify and manage risks associated with our products and provide the appropriate level of safety for people and the environment. • Our Product Safety Policy is part of our Standards of Business Conduct and is incorporated into our management systems. It is consistent with external product safety standards, including those provided by the American Chemistry Council Product Safety Code. Product standards and safe handling Zero work-related workforce Our chemicals, lubricants, and fuels""
""products meet or exceed (employee or contractor) applicable regulations, standards, and guidelines. These include: fatalities caused by transport incidents from 2017-2024 • Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) • EU Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction Safety and environmental standards also apply to the transport of Chemicals (REACH) of our products. Periodic risk assessments are part of our • Global Framework on Chemicals - For a""
""Planet Free transportation processes and help us to find opportunities to of Harm from Chemicals and Waste | UNEP - UN further avoid and mitigate risk. Examples include using GPS to Environment Programme track movements and our work with intermodal providers on positive train control – a method to avoid collisions. We also apply relevant standards for product safety where no We share good practices and promote safe transport of our regulations exist to enable communication of product safety""
""products with industry peers and emergency responders aspects to our customers. We work to identify and manage through regular engagements, and we continue to improve risks associated with our products and to avoid products that training for first responders both inside and outside our cannot meet an appropriate level of safety. company. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 41 Measuring performance Zero We monitor our performance based on our established safety standards. A key internal""
""metric we use to track the success of our product safety management system is the total number of high-consequence product stewardship- high-consequence product stewardship-related incidents. A high-consequence incident is measured through a combination related incidents in our Fuels, Lubricants, and of potential impacts including safety, health, environmental, Chemicals businessess again in 2024 and regulatory. Communication and collaboration Our Product Stewardship Information Management""
""System (PSIMS) is the primary way we share potential product hazards and risks with our customers. The safety data sheets in our In 2024, we actively managed a PSIMS include details on safe handling, transport, use, and disposal of our products. library of In 2015, ExxonMobil signed on to the Responsible Care® >100,000 safety data sheets Global Charter – a unifying long-term commitment to the safe management of chemicals. in compliance with the regulations Since 2021, we have focused on""
""informs to customers across industry product safety policy. Groups we work with include: 150 countries. • Health and Environmental Sciences Institute (HESI) • European Centre for Ecotoxicology and Toxicology of Chemicals (ECETOC) • Health Effects Institute (HEI) Spotlight: Thought leadership from ExxonMobil Biomedical Sciences The multi-faceted research led by ExxonMobil Biomedical Since 2014, EMBSI scientists have published more than 270 Sciences (EMBSI) directly informs operations and""
""processes peer-reviewed papers (which can be found online at Web at ExxonMobil. Their diverse team of more than 75 scientists of Science). In that time, experts from the EMBSI team have conducts research in various fields including epidemiology, also given more than 900 technical presentations to science toxicology, and environmental sciences. EMBSI also oversees conferences, regulatory agencies, and academia. Among them toxicity testing associated with product registration, develops were the""
""Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry, safety information to support the safe use of our products, and the Society of Toxicology, and the International Society of conducts evidence-based risk assessments. Exposure Sciences. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 42 Safeguarding people Leading in pesonnel safety When it comes to the safety of our people, our Nobody Care for our workforce is a core value and foundational to what Gets Hurt aspiration supports our mindset to be the most""
""contractors. This includes fatalities, fatal incident rate, lost time incident rate, and total recordable incident rate. These safety metrics can be found in our Sustainability Performance Data Table. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 43 “Nothing is more important than the safety of our people. Keeping them safe requires intense focus and relentless discipline, 24 hours a day, every single day.” Darren Woods Chairman and CEO Setting expectations for excellence We establish annual""
""our core value of Care. The PSMS clarifies Focused Safeguard management expectations at every level to teach people how to be safety for Life Altering Injury Work (LAI) leaders no matter where they work. It establishes a streamlined personnel safety standard with common language, processes, ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 44 Start to finish: Life Saving Rules & Actions Culture of Health Life Saving Rules & Actions (LSRAs) are an important part of To improve the health, quality of life,""
""processes and tools (e.g., pre-task briefing, job safety analysis, task observation). In 2024, we jointly hosted a Safety Collaboration Forum with others in the industry, with a specific focus on human performance. Members of the forum have formed a community of practice to maintain focus on this issue and develop shared frameworks for the industry. Leadership and teamwork Human Learn Design Performance approach Higher consequence Normal work work ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 45""
""Collaboration We participate in a wide range of forums to help improve • Texas Chemical Council: The Texas Chemical Council practices across the industry and around the world. We have promotes the interests of the industry in Texas, emphasizing representatives on more than 40 committees and forums related safety and environmental responsibility. to health, safety, and security in groups that include: • American Petroleum Institute (API): API is the primary • Energy Institute: The Energy""
""Institute is a professional trade association for the oil and natural gas industry in the membership body that provides training, shares knowledge, United States, with focused safety efforts that include the and supports energy professionals globally. Onshore Safety Alliance and the Center for Offshore Safety. • International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP): • Construction Users Roundtable: This group addresses The IOGP works to improve safety, environmental, and issues related to""
""| 2025 Sustainability Report 46 Safeguarding people Enhancing process safety “Look after each other.” As one of the driving principles behind our core value of Care, it sounds simple. In practice, it drives us to manage risks in a proactive, disciplined way, with a focus on the inherent hazards associated with the vast equipment and complex processes that are essential to our business. A process safety event could potentially impact our workforce, the community, and the environment. Because of""
""this, we set a high bar for ourselves. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals related to this content. Our approach Our objective is to help protect our people, communities, and the environment by successfully managing and enhancing process safety. The primary purpose of process safety is to keep hydrocarbons, chemicals, and process water controlled and safely managed through all phases of our operations. Our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS) is the core of how we manage""
""process safety risks. Everyone at ExxonMobil plays a role in process safety excellence Risk management strategies and higher-consequence process In line with OIMS expectations, we also monitor the safety risks are stewarded by our Management Committee performance of our operated and non-operated assets (e.g., as part of our approach to enterprise risk management. Our joint ventures). Where we see opportunities for improvement Upstream, Product Solutions, and Low Carbon Solutions of our non-""
""operated assets, we encourage operators to business lines develop and execute these strategies. consider them. Centralized support comes from the ExxonMobil Technology and Engineering Company and our Global Operations & We apply industry standards, including the API Recommended Sustainability team. Practice 754 and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) No. 456 Recommended Practice. Our OIMS establishes clear standards and expectations, with process safety indicators""
""maintenance. Metrics and Data table1 for our reporting on prior years. • Competency demonstrations. We discuss process safety events with multiple groups each • Emergency preparedness. year to help identify industry trends and apply learnings. Participating groups include the American Petroleum Institute (API), American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 47 (AFPM), International Association of Oil & Gas Producers, and member and remain active in the""
""That’s why we train our employees to have a zero-spill 17 high-risk elements. mindset, and we design and operate our facilities with that Transport of our products is also an important focus. objective in mind. Millions of barrels of petroleum and chemical products move Our objective is to prevent unplanned releases to the through thousands of miles of pipeline around the world. The environment. integrity of this process is overseen through comprehensive management programs. In the United""
""States, for example, We are committed to: our affiliate monitors and tests for corrosion and other • Prevention, mitigation, and elimination of spills from integrity concerns with ground and air patrols, state-of-the- our operations. art detection systems, alarms, and other technologies to continuously control and monitor pipeline operations. • Maintaining processes, resources, and personnel to respond to spills, however unlikely they are to occur. Actively managing spill reduction, applying Our""
""objective is to prevent unplanned releases to the learnings to recent acquisitions2 environment. We seek to use best practices based on our own research and the work of others in the industry to continually Spills > Barrel (BBL) Number of spills reduce the number of spills. Prevention Our Spill Prevention Program sets procedures across the company to: • Inspect and maintain equipment. • Train our people on safe practices. • Conduct practice drills and communicate lessons learned. All types of""
""spills are covered, using the overarching principles of our internal frameworks described in OIMS. The program addresses a wide range of scenarios, considering the many human and non-human factors that could potentially lead to a spill. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 48 Emergency preparedness We are prepared for a wide range of events, including natural disasters, pandemics, and operational incidents. Each of our facilities has access to trained responders and resources. Centralized and""
""unique in the industry. exercise in the site’s 105-year history, simulating a worst-case discharge, as defined by regulations that cover the site. The Emergency simulations, like our “tabletop” and field exercises, exercise involved more than 240 people from inside and outside help us ensure readiness. These are conducted in accordance the company, including representatives from the Environmental with management guidelines and regulatory requirements. Protection Agency, the Texas General Land""
""Office, and both the Harris County and the Baytown Offices of Emergency Each year, we conduct comprehensive exercises that span Management. several days. At sites around the world, emergency response teams and hundreds of employees, contractors, and specialists run through realistic, higher-consequence scenarios. These exercises often include participation from local authorities and agencies. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 49 Collaboration We work with others in our industry to share""
""best practices, • Oil Spill Global Response Network, a global collaboration improve capabilities, and facilitate global spill response and among oil-response companies to provide centers management. We also pursue innovative solutions and advance of expertise for spill preparedness, response, and recovery. fundamental scientific understanding of spill response through • Oil Spill Response Limited, an industry-owned spill-response collaboration. Research currently underway includes potential of""
""cooperative with members representing more than two- chemical herders and next-generation dispersants for managing thirds of the world’s oil production, and their Global Oiled oil spills, assessing alternatives to natural gas flaring, and more. Wildlife Response Service. • Western Canada Spill Services Ltd., which supplements Groups we work with include: member companies’ programs with additional training • Australian Marine Oil Spill Centre, focused on rapid and equipment. containment and""
""recovery of all oil types along the • Oil Spill Combat Team, the largest spill response center Australian coast. in Indonesia. • Marine Spill Response Corporation, the largest joint industry • Eastern Canada Response Corporation, which provides group focused solely on oil spill and emergency response in services and equipment to ships and oil-handling facilities the United States, providing access to their STARs network under Canadian law. of trained contractors in about 250 locations. • Multi-""
""to provide relevant insights and enhance • Develop guardrails and our AI strategy for adoption at scale. decision making. • Responsible AI: Based on industry standards like the NIST AI Risk Management Framework, our Responsible AI Principles guide our efforts in aspects related to safety, security, fairness, and privacy. Footnotes for Enhancing process safety 1 Process safety Tier 1 events metric includes Denbury data beginning on April 1, 2024. 2 ExxonMobil data includes hydrocarbon, drilling""
""fluid, and chemical spills greater than 1 barrel (bbl). Based on performance data as of March 12, 2025, including recent acquisitions (Denbury data beginning November 2, 2023, and Pioneer data beginning May 3, 2024). ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 51 Safeguarding people Respecting human rights Respecting human rights is important to the well-being of our These values are reflected in our comprehensive approach to communities and our workforce – and it’s simply the right thing human""
""business in a way that balances • Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and environmental and economic needs. occupation. • Safety: Ensuring the safety of employees, contractors, • Safe and healthy working environments. customers, and the public. • Equal Employment Opportunity: Providing equal employment opportunities in line with applicable laws and regulations. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 52 When applicable, our practices are guided by the: interactions with""
""practices help identify and assess potential as well as our Environment Policy and Operations Integrity human rights impacts, and other socioeconomic risks and Management System (OIMS). opportunities, early on in our activities. We aim to avoid or We provide access to remedy through transparent, accessible, reduce risks with thorough planning, effective mitigation, and culturally appropriate channels for individuals or monitoring, and other measures. For example, as part of our communities to""
""raise concerns, consistent with international Environmental, Socioeconomic, and Health Impact Assessment standards. We make these available through our community and Management process, we conduct initial country and operations-level grievance-management processes, as well assessments that identify qualitative human rights risks. We as our complaint procedures and open-door communication also use a human rights risk screening tool to analyze risks at for employees. As part of these processes, we""
""seek to support country, project, and operations levels, incorporating elements confidentiality and non-retaliation. More information on our of global human rights principles. grievance-management process can be found here. Our approach to socioeconomic management supports our By monitoring feedback and emerging trends, and using assessment and management of human rights aspects in our grievance mechanisms at our sites, we improve our communities. It is guided by our Environmental Aspects Guide,""
""management plans and update our training programs with which considers environmental, social, and economic factors, new insights. Focus areas What we do More information Communities We strive to amplify the positive impact of our business on Managing socioeconomic impacts and local communities while diligently managing environmental, people socioeconomic, and health risks. Our approach to socioeconomic management is integral to our respect for human rights. Practices encompass key areas such as:""
""includes our work with Ipieca, the “global oil and in Supply Chains Act. gas association for advancing environmental and social performance.” In recent years, ExxonMobil helped develop new • The annual Australia Modern Slavery Statement editions of the Human Rights Due Diligence Guide, the Labour of ExxonMobil Australia Pty Ltd, Mobil PNG Gas Holdings Rights Risk Identification in the Supply Chain, the Supply Chain Pty Ltd, and related reporting entities, in accordance with Library of Questions""
""Managing socioeconomic impacts We are committed to being a good corporate citizen in the places we operate worldwide. This means maintaining high ethical standards; complying with applicable laws, rules, and regulations; and respecting local and national cultures. And we are dedicated to running safe and environmentally responsible operations. Our Environment Policy and Protect Tomorrow. Today. guiding principle are the cornerstones of our efforts. The discipline and focus that drive our""
""excellent reliability and safety performance drive our work to promote economic development and manage socioeconomic impacts everywhere we operate. We base our actions on a scientific understanding of the environmental impacts of our operations. We engage with communities, governments and others early in project planning and during operations to understand the social and economic needs of the communities where we operate. Our goal is to contribute to the social and economic progress of these""
""Nations Sustainable Development Goals related to this content. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 56 Impact identification and assessment Our projects and operations around the world provide Our processes include: socioeconomic benefits to the communities where we operate • Environmental Aspects Assessment. and beyond. While there are inherent risks in any development or operation, we aim to avoid them, reduce them to acceptable • Environmental, Socioeconomic, and Health Impact levels, or""
""remedy the impacts. Assessment. • Environmental, Socioeconomic, and Health We use core processes and internal frameworks to manage Management Plans. our operations. Our Operations Integrity Management System (OIMS), for example, and its integrated risk management We engage with local communities and stakeholders to system, helps us to identify, assess, manage, and monitor understand the local socioeconomic setting, incorporate environmental and socioeconomic impacts, risks and feedback, data,""
""and other due diligence information into these opportunities throughout the life cycles of our assets. processes. We periodically update our assessments and plans to reflect changes in operational complexity or socioeconomic We use our Environmental Aspects Guide to identify and assess sensitivities. When needed, we adjust our management plans significant environmental and socioeconomic aspects, in line accordingly. with our Environment Policy. Environmental aspects include activities, products,""
""or services that can interact with the environment. This also covers the “human environment,” which includes social and economic aspects beyond just climate and nature. Environmental Management ESMP and Social Plan Environmental Social management plans management plans Environmental aspects National content Social by facility themes themes Upstream facilities, pipelines Community development support Community health, safety and security and infrastructure LNG plant and marine facilities""
""Procurement and supplier Stakeholder engagement Land access, resettlement and Port Moresby office Training and vocational education livelihood restoration Labor and working conditions For example, at the PNG LNG project in Papua New Guinea, by the PNG LNG Environmental Impact Statement, and operated by ExxonMobil PNG Limited, the Environmental and lessons learned from the project’s construction phase. It also Social Management Plan (ESMP) guides our work. It helps us incorporates OIMS, the""
""International Finance Corporation manage and reduce environmental, social, community health, Performance Standards, and other international standards such safety, and security impacts. The ESMP also ensures we meet as the Equator Principles. Papua New Guinea’s legislative and regulatory requirements. The ESMP consists of three environmental management and This involves complying with more than 1,300 regulatory seven social management plans covering all PNG LNG facilities. obligations and more""
""than 2,700 licenses, permits, certificates, Requirements of the Production ESMP apply during normal and associated conditions. operating conditions, as well as in reasonably foreseeable The ESMP was developed after extensive consultation with abnormal operating conditions or emergency situations. More stakeholders. It includes environmental and social management information can be found in the PNG LNG 2023 Annual Report. and mitigation measures, monitoring requirements established ExxonMobil |""
""2025 Sustainability Report 57 Community engagement and grievance management We believe in meaningful engagement with communities to In practice: Environmental justice in the U.S. build positive, long-term relationships. We regularly consult We are part of the communities where our employees live and with local groups and individuals to ensure their voices are work, surrounded by their friends, families, and neighbors. heard and their concerns are addressed. Our engagement Their lived experiences""
""guidance of International with four key components: Health & Safety, Education & Finance Corporation and Ipieca. Individual processes may Workforce, Environmental Stewardship, and Quality of Life. be complex or simple, driven by the characteristics of each 2023 highlights include: location, type of activity, local sensitivities, potential impacts, and other factors. Our key performance indicators reflect these • >$11.5 million spent locally, including minority- and attributes. women-owned""
""communities, building on the best members to understand barriers that may limit their aspects of our operations, while mitigating any potential participation. We tailor our processes to be accessible, negative impacts. inclusive, and effective in exchanging information and identifying issues. As described in the Caring for land and biodiversity section of this report, the environmental and socioeconomic setting of As with everything we do, our top priority is running safe our operations includes""
""the potential impacts of our operations. • Make financial contributions and develop programs in communities to address needs or opportunities where we have some expertise or value to add. • Work to ensure local communities directly and indirectly benefit from our presence. Community health, safety, and security Spotlight: Improving water quality in Indonesia We integrate community health, safety, and security aspects into our impact assessments as a key part of our socioeconomic Since 2008, the""
""community-based water program management approach. Our Community Health, Safety, and launched by ExxonMobil Cepu Limited, in Indonesia has Security plans typically include: helped local residents access clean water during the dry season. This program aims to reduce waterborne • Identified risks. diseases and promote healthier living. • Mitigation and management measures. The community established a committee to manage the • Monitoring of outcomes. budget for constructing and monitoring water""
""vocational skills. We focus on: • Health and safety. • Employing and training local personnel. • Environmental protection. • Supporting local suppliers and contractors. • Management skills. • Improving the livelihoods of community members. • Business conduct. We create a local content plan for each country or area. These plans set objectives for long-term economic development, For more information, view our Investing in People report. considering social and economic conditions, the nature of the""
""safety, technical, environmental, and human rights expectations. Our efforts support businesses owned by local individuals, women, and historically disadvantaged communities, helping them become more competitive and contributing to the long-term economic progress of the community. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 60 Spotlight: Supporting women entrepreneurs With funding from the ExxonMobil Foundation, the Cherie The ExxonMobil Foundation has supported CBFW since Blair Foundation for Women""
""communities cannot Site selection process refuse, such as in cases of eminent domain. Projects requiring resettlement undergo heightened review by ExxonMobil senior We assess multiple potential locations for our operations based management. on availability, accessibility, safety, and environmental and social considerations. Our screening process includes factors Resettlement and livelihood restoration specific to each country, community, and area, such as: When physical or economic displacement""
""a decline due to a clan dispute over compensation sharing, which is beyond the affiliate’s control. For more information on our resettlement and livelihood restoration programs in Papua New Guinea, see the ExxonMobil PNG 2023 Environmental and Social Report. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 61 Indigenous peoples In locations inhabited or historically used by Indigenous Many of Imperial’s operations are near Indigenous peoples, we work closely with these communities to respect communities""
""relations strategy and supported by four key pillars: Consultation Workforce Business Community development development relations ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 62 Cultural Heritage Our respect for the cultural heritage and customs of local We value and respect the diverse cultural histories of the areas communities carries into our business practices. We do this where we operate. To do this, we identify potential sites of by managing the potential impacts of our operations and by""
""heritage sites, biodiversity conservation, traditional knowledge, we provide training to our construction and field contractor and efficient use of resources. personnel. This helps them identify different types of cultural heritage in the areas where we work. In Banyu Urip in Indonesia, employees at our affiliate volunteer to work with cultural leaders and village residents to maintain and provide access to the sacred springs in the Sendang Kelor area, now known as “Sendang Lego.” Footnotes for""
""Managing socioeconomic impacts 1 At all times decisions are made based on the best supplier for the need. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 63 Contributing to the well-being of communities Working with suppliers Our core value of Care doesn’t stop at our door. Our suppliers of goods and services all have a role to play in how we work to Protect Tomorrow. Today. Our Supplier and Contractor Expectations call for the (UNGPs). They also communicate our expectation that our operations and""
""approach We work to promote inclusive sourcing open to all. We are committed to respecting human rights and working to reduce impacts to the environment. We seek to work with qualified suppliers that share our commitment. Supplier stewardship We consider sustainability-related elements in our Our standard terms and conditions used by our procurement procurement processes. For example, we seek opportunities team oblige suppliers to: to support responsible sourcing, including identification of •""
""Comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including potential human rights impacts within procurement category those related to employment, safety, security, health, and families. the environment. Potential suppliers are reviewed on their operational, technical, • Impose similar terms and conditions on their and financial performance. When considering a supplier, we subcontractors. also perform due diligence on compliance. We use third-party sources to screen potential suppliers across""
""employment. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 64 We audit a select number of suppliers each year for contract We define our suppliers according to the size and frequency of compliance on aspects including pricing, safety, drug and our purchases and review performance of our top-tier suppliers alcohol policy, invoicing, and travel expenses. Contracts may be using criteria aligned with our 14 sustainability focus areas terminated if suppliers do not meet our expectations. in an effort to""
""identify risks and opportunities, and promote innovation. Environmental performance We aim to work with innovative suppliers to reduce questions are part of our sourcing platform and are considered environmental impacts in our supply chain. We also engage in evaluating bids and selecting suppliers. with suppliers to share our expectations. Whether through collaboration with our transport and Our cost models and sourcing strategies include environmental logistics suppliers or through our focus on""
""efficiently running considerations like reducing energy use and incorporating our warehouses, our approach continues to tackle everyday recycled content into packaging materials. Sustainability challenges in innovative and cost-effective ways. Human rights due diligence We are committed to respecting human rights and expect our typically require suppliers and their subcontractors to allow us suppliers to do the same. Through our procurement processes to access all offices and work sites and to""
""Construction Josh Sanford, Engineering Manager - ExxonMobil . ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 65 Supplier diversity We promote awareness of inclusive sourcing options with local, We encourage local, diverse, and small businesses to register in diverse, and small suppliers to increase competition and the supplier diversity database, SupplierOne, to gain visibility innovation while striving to make a positive impact on with procurement professionals. We also work with communities. Where""
""Business Enterprise National Council. in countries outside of the United States. We buy goods and services from local suppliers and build their capabilities through local programs. This helps build long-term local economic capacity, strengthens community relationships, and supports the objectives of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Inclusive sourcing open to all brings a competitive edge through new perspectives, ideas, and practices that help our businesses grow. For example,""
""when a radio system at one of our refineries was reaching its standard end of life, replacing it was an expensive proposition. It was a registered diverse supplier that brought us an innovative and cost-effective solution to refurbish the radio batteries on a rolling basis. As a result, we can safely and reliably use the system for years to come. Footnotes for Working with suppliers 1 Includes direct ExxonMobil spending on Tier 1 suppliers and a select group of Tier 2 suppliers, which includes""
""small business owned, veteran business owned, and other classifications informed by industry reporting guidance. At all times decisions are made based on the best supplier for the need. 2024 data from Pioneer operations not available at time of publication. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 66 Sustainability performance data Performance data table1 Consistent with industry, we are reporting the data below over a 5-year period. The reporting guidelines and indicators of Ipieca, the American""
""Petroleum Institute (API) and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP) Sustainability Reporting Guidence for the Oil and Gas Industry (4th edition, 2020-Revised February 2023) informed the selection of the data included in this performance table. For additional resources see the following: Sustainability, and the content index. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE2 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Freshwater Freshwater withdrawn, millions of cubic meters 450 420 430 440 480 Freshwater""
""consumption, millions of cubic meters 280 260 280 290 330 Freshwater intensity, metric tons of water consumed per metric tons of throughput or production Upstream 0.5 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.5 Downstream 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 Chemical 1.7 1.5 1.9 2.2 2.5 Discharges to water Controlled hydrocarbon discharges to water, thousands of metric tons 0.8 0.7 0.7 0.5 1.1 Upstream 0.7 0.6 0.6 0.4 1.1 Downstream 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Spills to the environment Marine vessel (owned and long-term leased) hydrocarbon spills""
"">1 barrel, number 0 0 0 0 0 Hydrocarbon spills (not from marine vessels) (oil spilled), number 181 158 170 159 441 Hydrocarbon spills (not from marine vessels) (oil spilled) volume, thousands of barrels 2.0 21.6 10.7 1.6 4.8 Other spills (not from marine vessels) (non-hydrocarbon), number 43 50 41 16 85 Other spills (not from marine vessels) (non-hydrocarbon) volume, thousands of barrels 0.5 0.5 0.7 0.5 2.0 Air emissions Sulfur oxides (SOx) emitted, millions of metric tons 0.07 0.08 0.08 0.06""
""0.05 Nitrogen oxides (NOx) emitted, millions of metric tons3 0.12 0.12 0.13 0.12 0.11 Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emitted, millions of metric tons 0.10 0.12 0.11 0.10 0.13 Material management Total hazardous waste generated from remediation, millions of metric tons 0.9 0.9 0.5 0.6 0.7 Total hazardous waste disposed from remediation, millions of metric tons 0.9 0.9 0.5 0.6 0.7 Total hazardous waste beneficial reuse from remediation, millions of metric tons <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 Total""
""non-hazardous waste generated from remediation, millions of metric tons 0.4 0.7 0.6 0.7 0.2 Total non-hazardous waste disposed from remediation, millions of metric tons 0.4 0.7 0.5 0.7 0.2 Total non-hazardous waste beneficial reuse from remediation, millions of metric tons <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 <0.1 0.1 Total hazardous waste generated from operations, millions of metric tons 0.3 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.4 Total hazardous waste disposed from operations, millions of metric tons 0.1 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.5 Total hazardous""
""waste beneficial reuse from operations, millions of metric tons 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.1 Total non-hazardous waste generated from operations, millions of metric tons 0.8 0.7 0.6 0.6 1.5 Total non-hazardous waste disposed from operations, millions of metric tons 0.4 0.6 0.4 0.4 1.3 Total non-hazardous waste beneficial reuse from operations, millions of metric tons 0.4 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.1 Environmental expenditures Environmental expenditures, billions of dollars 4.5 4.6 5.7 7.1 9.0 Total dollars spent on""
""environmental penalties, fines and settlements, billions of dollars <0.001 <0.001 0.002 <0.001 0.001 ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 67 SAFETY PERFORMANCE2 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Safety Fatalities - employees 1 0 0 1 0 Fatalities - contractors 0 1 3 1 1 Fatal accident rate - total workforce (per 1,000,000 work hours)4 0.003 0.003 0.009 0.006 0.003 Fatal incident rate - total workforce (per 1,000,000 work hours)4 0.003 0.003 0.009 0.006 0.003 Lost-time incident rate - employees (per""
""countries13 20 16 16 15 17 Corporate political contributions — United States state campaigns and national 527s, millions of dollars 0.54 0.52 0.49 0.58 0.55 Percent of shares represented at Corporation’s Annual Meeting 82.2 72.0 80.4 83.1 83.8 ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 68 Footnotes for Sustainability performance data: 1 Performance data is based on a combination of measured and estimated data using reasonable efforts and collection methods. Any calculations are based on industry""
""standards and best practices, including guidance from the API and Ipieca as applicable. There is uncertainty associated with the performance data due to variation in the processes and operations, the availability of sufficient data, quality of those data and methodology used for measurement and estimation. Performance data may include rounding. This table reflects Environmental Performance and Safety Performance data as of March 12, 2025. Environmental Performance and Safety Performance data""
""includes Denbury Inc. (“Denbury”) beginning on November 2, 2023 and Pioneer Natural Resources Company (“Pioneer”) beginning on May 3, 2024, where applicable and available. Changes to the performance data may be reported as part of the company’s annual publications as new or updated data and/or methodologies become available as appropriate. Environmental Performance and Safety Performance data is reported for ExxonMobil operated assets only. “Other spills (not from marine vessels) (non-""
""hydrocarbon)” include chemical and water-based drilling fluid spills. 2 Some historical performance data were updated to reflect the best available information at the time of this report. 3 Some historical performance data reflects a change in methodology for estimating NOx emissions from certain combustion equipment based on manufacturer performance data. 4 Total workforce includes employees and contractors. Accidents or incidents include both injuries and illnesses. From 2020 through 2024, all""
""upstream business presence. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 69 About our Advancing Climate Solutions and Sustainability Reports and Cautionary Statement The “Sustainability” section of our website contains two reports: • Our Advancing Climate Solutions Report describes what we are doing to tackle the challenge of meeting society’s need for energy while reducing greenhouse gas emissions and growing long-term value. • And our Sustainability Report completes the picture as it describes our""
""approach to managing our operations and our commitment to carry out our business activities the right way, for the long term. The Sustainability Report, the Advancing Climate Solutions Report, and corresponding Executive Summaries were issued on April 30, 2025. The content and data referenced in these publications focus primarily on our operations from Jan. 1, 2024 – Dec. 31, 2024, unless otherwise indicated. Information regarding some known events or activities in 2025 and historical initia-""
""tives from prior years are also included. Tables on our “Metrics and data” page were updated to reflect full year 2024 data. The reporting guidelines and indicators in the Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry (4th edition, 2020, revised February 2023) developed by Ipieca, the American Petroleum Institute, and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers informed our Sustainability Report and Advancing Climate Solutions Report. These reports may also refer- ence""
""the GRI standards, the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, and/or other sources where appropriate. The “Sustainability” section of our website uses qualitative descriptions and quantitative metrics to describe our policies, pro- grams, practices and performance. Many of metrics used in preparing the “Sustainability” section of our website are difficult to measure, methods for collecting data continue to evolve and may contain""
""estimates or assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time of preparation. The uncertainty associated with this data depends on variation in the processes and operations, the availability of sufficient data, the quality of those data and methodology used for measurement and estimation. Changes to the data may be reported as updated data and/or methodologies become available. Our topic selection process helped inform our sustainability reporting. Visit our content index for a detailed mapping""
""of the locations of information regarding topics included in the reports. For purposes of the “Sustainability” section of our website, the selected topics do not correspond to the concept of materi- ality used in securities laws and disclosures required by U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules or any U.S. or foreign governing body. 2025 Advancing Climate Solutions Report and 2025 Sustainability Report published on April 30, 2025. Forward-Looking Statement Warning CAUTIONARY STATEMENT""
""RELEVANT TO FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATION FOR THE PURPOSE OF THE “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 AND OTHER IMPORTANT LEGAL DISCLAIMERS Images or statements of future ambitions, aims, aspirations, plans, goals, events, projects, projections, opportunities, expectations, performance, or conditions in the publications, including plans to reduce, abate, avoid or enable avoidance of emissions or reduce emissions intensity, sensitivity analyses,""
""expectations, estimates, the development of future technologies, business plans, and sustainability efforts are dependent on future market factors, such as customer demand, continued technological progress, stable policy support and timely rule-making or continuation of government incentives and funding, and represent forward-looking statements. Similarly, emission-reduction roadmaps to drive toward net zero and similar roadmaps for emerging technologies and markets, and water management""
""roadmaps to reduce freshwater intake and/or manage disposal, are forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future corporate, market or industry performance or outcomes for ExxonMobil or society and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control or are even unknown. Actual future results, including the achievement of ambitions to reach Scope 1 and 2 net zero from operated assets by 2050, to reach Scope 1 and 2 net zero in heritage""
""Permian Basin unconventional operated assets by 2030, and in Pioneer Permian assets by 2035, to eliminate routine flaring in-line with World Bank Zero Routine Flaring, to reach near zero methane emissions from operated assets and other methane initiatives to meet ExxonMobil’s greenhouse gas emission reduction plans and goals, divestment and start-up plans, and associated project plans as well as technology advances, including in the timing and outcome of projects to capture, transport and store""
""CO, produce hydrogen and ammonia, produce lower-emission fuels, produce ProxximaTM systems, produce carbon materials, produce lithium, and use plastic waste as feedstock for advan2ced recycling; future debt levels and credit ratings; business and project plans, timing, costs, capacities and profitability; resource recoveries and production rates; planned Denbury and Pioneer integrated benefits; obtain data on detection, measurement and quantification of emissions including reporting of that data""
""or updates to previous estimates and progress in sustainability focus areas could vary depending on a number of factors, including global or regional changes in oil, gas, petrochemicals, or feedstock prices, differentials, seasonal fluctuations, or other market or economic conditions affecting the oil, gas, and petrochemical industries and the demand for our products; new market products and services; future cash flows; our ability to execute operational objectives on a timely and successful""
""basis; the ability to realize efficiencies within and across our business lines; new or changing government policies for lower carbon and new market investment opportunities, or policies limiting the attractiveness of investments such as European taxes on energy and unequal support for different methods of carbon capture; developments or changes in local, national, or international treaties, laws, regulations, taxes, trade sanctions, trade tariffs, and incentives affecting our business,""
""including those related to greenhouse gas emissions, plastics, carbon storage and carbon costs; timely granting of governmental permits and certifications; uncertain impacts of deregulation on the legal and regulatory environment; evolving reporting standards for these topics and evolving measurement standards for reported data; trade patterns and the development and enforcement of local, national and regional mandates; unforeseen technical or operational difficulties; the outcome of research""
""efforts and future technology developments, including the ability to scale projects and technologies such as electrification of operations, advanced recycling, carbon capture and storage, hydrogen and ammonia production, ProxximaTM systems, carbon materials or direct lithium extraction on a commercially competitive basis; the development and competitiveness of alternative energy and emission reduction technologies; unforeseen technical or operating difficulties, including the need for unplanned""
""maintenance; availability of feedstocks for lower-emission fuels, hydrogen, or advanced recycling; changes in the relative energy mix across activities and geographies; the actions of co-venturers competitors; changes in regional and global economic growth rates and consumer preferences including willingness and ability to pay for reduced emissions products; actions taken by governments and consumers resulting from a pandemic; changes in population growth, economic development or migration""
""under the “Earnings” tab through the “Investors” page of our website at www.exxonmobil.com. The Advancing Climate Solutions Report includes 2024 greenhouse gas emissions performance data as of March 1, 2025, and Scope 3 Category 11 estimates for full year 2024 as of February 19, 2025. The greenhouse gas intensity and greenhouse gas emission estimates include Scope 2 market-based emissions. The Sustainability Report, the Advancing Climate Solutions Report, and corresponding Executive Summaries""
""these publications. All forward-looking statements are based on management’s ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 70 knowledge and reasonable expectations at the time of publication. ExxonMobil assumes no duty to update these statements or materials as of any future date, and neither future distribution of this material nor the continued availability of this material in archive form on our website should be deemed to constitute an update or re-affirmation of these figures or statements as of""
""any future date. Any future update will be provided only through a public disclosure indicating that fact. See “ABOUT THE ADVANCING CLIMATE SOLUTIONS AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORTS” at the end of this document for additional information on these reports and the use of non- GAAP and other financial measures. ABOUT THE ADVANCING CLIMATE SOLUTIONS AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORTS The Advancing Climate Solutions Report contains terms used by the TCFD, as well as information about how the disclosures in this""
""report are consistent with the recommendations of the TCFD. In doing so, ExxonMobil is not obligating itself to use any terms in the way defined by the TCFD or any other party, nor is it obligating itself to comply with any specific recommendation of the TCFD or to provide any specific disclosure. For example, with respect to the term “material,” individual companies are best suited to determine what information is material, under the long-standing U.S. Supreme Court definition, and whether to""
""include this information in U.S. Securities and Exchange Act filings. In addition, the ISSB is evaluating standards that provide their interpretation of TCFD which may or may not be consistent with the current TCFD recommendations. The Sustainability Report and Advancing Climate Solutions Report are each a voluntary disclosure and are not designed to fulfill any U.S., foreign, or third-party required reporting framework. Forward-looking and other statements regarding environmental and other""
""sustainability efforts and aspirations are not intended to communicate any material investment information under the laws of the United States or represent that these are required disclosures. These publications are not intended to imply that ExxonMobil has access to any significant non- public insights on future events that the reader could not independently research. In addition, historical, current, and forward-looking environmental and other sustainability-related statements may be based on""
""standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change in the future, including future laws and rulemaking. Forward-looking and other statements regarding environmental and other sustainability efforts and aspirations are for informational purposes only and are not intended as an advertisement for ExxonMobil’s equity, debt, businesses, products, or services and the reader is specifically""
""ExxonMobil’s 2030 greenhouse gas emission-reductions plans are incorporated into its medium-term business plans, which are updated annually. The reference case for planning beyond 2030 is based on the Company’s Global Outlook research and publication. The Global Outlook is reflective of the existing global policy environment and an assumption of increasing policy stringency and technology improvement to 2050. However, the Global Outlook does not attempt to project the degree of required future""
""policy and technology advancement and deployment for the world, or ExxonMobil, to meet net zero by 2050. As future policies and technology advancements emerge, they will be incorporated into the GIobal Outlook, and the Company’s business plans will be updated as appropriate. References to projects or opportunities may not reflect investment decisions made by the corporation or its affiliates. Individual projects or opportunities may advance based on a number of factors, including availability of""
""stable and supportive policy, permitting, technological advancement for cost-effective abatement, insights from the Company planning process, and alignment with our partners and other stakeholders. Capital investment guidance in lower-emission and other new investments is based on our corporate plan; however, actual investment levels will be subject to the availability of the opportunity set, stable public policy support, other factors, and focused on returns. Energy demand modeling aims to""
""replicate system dynamics of the global energy system, requiring simplifications. The reference to any scenario or any pathway for an energy transition, including any potential net-zero scenario, does not imply ExxonMobil views any particular scenario as likely to occur. In addition, energy demand scenarios require assumptions on a variety of parameters. As such, the outcome of any given scenario using an energy demand model comes with a high degree of uncertainty. For example, the IEA describes""
""its NZE scenario as extremely challenging, requiring unprecedented innovation, unprecedented international cooperation, and sustained support and participation from consumers, with steeper reductions required each year since the scenario’s initial release. Third-party scenarios discussed in these reports reflect the modeling assumptions and outputs of their respective authors, not ExxonMobil, and their use or inclusion herein is not an endorsement by ExxonMobil of their underlying assumptions,""
""control and direction of the third parties. ExxonMobil has also provided links in this report to third-party websites for ease of reference. ExxonMobil’s use of the third-party content is not an endorsement or adoption of such information. ExxonMobil reported emissions, including reductions and avoidance performance data, are based on a combination of measured and estimated data. We assess our performance to support continuous improvement throughout the organization using our Environmental""
""Performance Indicator (EPI) manual. The reporting guidelines and indicators in the Ipieca, the American Petroleum Institute (API), the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers Sustainability Reporting Guidance for the Oil and Gas Industry (4th edition, 2020, revised February 2023) and key chapters of the GHG Protocol inform the EPI and the selection of the data reported. Emissions reported are estimates only, and performance data depends on variations in processes and operations, the""
""availability of sufficient data, the quality of those data and methodology used for measurement and estimation. Emissions data is subject to change as methods, data quality, and technology improvements occur, and changes to performance data may be updated. Emissions, reductions, abatements and enabled avoidance estimates for non-ExxonMobil operated facilities are included in the equity data and similarly may be updated as changes in the performance data are reported. ExxonMobil’s plans to reduce""
""emissions are good-faith efforts based on current relevant data and methodology, which could be changed or refined. ExxonMobil works to continuously improve its approach to estimate, detect, measure, and address emissions. ExxonMobil actively engages with industry, including API and Ipieca, to improve emission factors and methodologies, including measurements and estimates. Any reference to ExxonMobil’s support of, work with, or collaboration with a third-party organization within these""
""publications do not constitute or imply an endorsement by ExxonMobil of any or all of the positions or activities of such organization. ExxonMobil participates, along with other companies, institutes, universities and other organizations, in various initiatives, campaigns, projects, groups, trade organizations, and other collaborations among industry and through organizations like the United Nations that express various ambitions, aspirations and goals related to climate change, emissions,""
""sustainability, and the energy transition. ExxonMobil’s participation or membership in such collaborations is not a promise or guarantee that ExxonMobil’s individual ambitions, future performance or policies will align with the collective ambitions of the organizations or the individual ambitions of other participants, all of which are subject to a variety of uncertainties and other factors, many of which may be beyond ExxonMobil’s control, including government regulation, availability and cost-""
""effectiveness of technologies, and market forces and other risks and uncertainties. Such third parties’ statements of collaborative or individual ambitions and goals frequently diverge from ExxonMobil’s own ambitions, plans, goals, and commitments. ExxonMobil will continue to make independent decisions regarding the operation of its business, including its climate-related and sustainability-related ambitions, plans, goals, commitments, and investments. ExxonMobil’s future ambitions, goals and""
""commitments reflect ExxonMobil’s current plans, and ExxonMobil may unilaterally change them for various reasons, including adoption of new reporting standards or practices, market conditions; changes in its portfolio; and financial, operational, regulatory, reputational, legal and other factors. References to “resources,” “resource base,” “recoverable resources” and similar terms refer to the total remaining estimated quantities of oil and natural gas that are expected to be ultimately""
""recoverable. The resource base includes quantities of oil and natural gas classified as proved reserves, as well as quantities that are not yet classified as proved reserves, but that are expected to be ultimately recoverable. The term “resource base” is not intended to correspond to SEC definitions such as “probable” or “possible” reserves. For additional information, see the “Frequently Used Terms” on the Investors page of the Company’s website at www.exxonmobil.com under the header “Modeling""
""Toolkit.” References to “oil” and “gas” include crude, natural gas liquids, bitumen, synthetic oil, and natural gas. The term “project” as used in these publications can refer to a variety of different activities and does not necessarily have the same meaning as in any government payment transparency reports. Exxon Mobil Corporation has numerous affiliates, many with names that include ExxonMobil, Exxon, Mobil, Esso, and XTO. For convenience and simplicity, those terms and terms such as""
""reports and the data therein do not speak of these companies’ pre-acquisition governance, risk management, strategy approaches, or emissions or sustainability performance unless specifically referenced. These reports or any material therein are not to be used or reproduced without the permission of Exxon Mobil Corporation. All rights reserved. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION FOR NON-GAAP AND OTHER MEASURES The Positioned for Growth in a Lower-Emission Future section of the Advancing Climate Solutions""
""plus proceeds from asset sales before portfolio capital expenditures. The Company believes this measure can be helpful in assessing the resiliency of the business to generate cash from different potential future markets. The performance data presented in the Advancing Climate Solutions Report and Sustainability Report, including on emissions, is not financial data and is not GAAP data. ExxonMobil | 2025 Sustainability Report 71""
