"Improving  Lives 2024 Sustainability Report  IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION 2 Table of Contents CEO Letter ............................................................... 3 Executive Summary..........................................4 About AES ...............................................................6 Our Business Strategy....................................9 Our Impact Framework"
"......................................................11 Energy Infrastructure: Flexibility Enabling  Growth............................................................................................12 Renewables: Fastest Time to Power...................... 13 Utilities: Powering Communities                                    and Industries........................................................................... 14 New Energy Technologies: Scaling Innovative"
"Solutions........................................................................................15 People .......................................................................16 Empowering our People ..............................17 Talent Development ...........................................................18 Reskilling and Training........................................................21 Employee Engagement .................................................22 Safety and Well-Being"
".................................23 Occupational Health and Safety ..............................23 Public Safety.............................................................................24 Well-Being..................................................................................24 Stakeholder Engagement ........................26 Voluntary Initiatives, Forums                                             and Associations..................................................................26"
"Partnering with Communities ................28 Community Relations .......................................................28 Social Impact ..........................................................................29 Volunteering .............................................................................32 Suppliers.................................................................33 Human Rights......................................................34 Planet"
"........................................................................35 Environmental Management            System......................................................................36 Our ambitions ......................................................37 Emissions ..............................................................38 Biodiversity ...........................................................39 Water ...........................................................................41 Waste"
"........................................................................42 Accountability .....................................................43 Board of Directors ...........................................44 Ethics and Compliance ...............................45 Anti-Harassment and                                     Anti-Discrimination .........................................46 Cybersecurity .....................................................47 Risk Management"
"...........................................48 Disaster/Emergency Planning                                        and Response.........................................................................48 About this Report .............................................49 Our Priority Assessment...................................................51 GRI Index ....................................................................................52 SASB"
"index...............................................................................55 Assurance Statement.......................................................56 Forward-Looking   Statements / Disclaimer ................................................59  3 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Andrés Gluski President and Chief   Executive Officer  CEO Letter  Andrés Gluski  President and Chief  Executive Officer Dear Stakeholders,  As we"
"reflect on 2024, I am proud to share the meaningful progress  AES has made accelerating the future of energy. Our success  was more than just our efforts to meet growing energy demand; it  was about building the reliable energy systems our communities,  industries, and economies rely on consistently. Across our markets,  we delivered enough electricity to meet the annual energy needs of  approximately 17 million people.   AES was once again named as the world’s #1 provider of clean  energy to"
"corporations in Bloomberg New Energy Finance’s (BNEF)  Corporate Energy Market Outlook. This ranking reflects not only the  strength of our portfolio, but the trust of our partners. Our best-in- class record of delivering renewable projects on time and on budget  is something that our customers value highly and is one of our  competitive advantages.   We also solidified our position as one of the top providers of energy  to data centers. The US Department of Energy expects data center"
"electricity demand to support Artificial Intelligence (AI) to grow at 28  percent per year through the end of the decade. We see continued  with signed contracts but not yet in operation), will power our  communities for years to come. We are a leading all-of-the-above  energy company with a portfolio of natural gas, coal, battery storage,  and renewable assets, including solar, hydro and onshore wind. This  breadth allows us to meet our customers' goals and the needs of our  markets in the most"
"efficient and low-carbon way possible.  Every project we deliver, every partnership we form, and every  community we support is grounded in our purpose to accelerate  the future of energy. From powering the AI revolution in the US and  Chile, to electrifying rural communities in El Salvador, we are focused  on creating real, lasting value for all our stakeholders. I invite you to  explore the stories, progress, and impact shared in this report to see  how we advanced our goal of improving lives"
"in 2024. Thank you for  your continued partnership and support.  Sincerely,  strong demand for renewables to power data centers given their  advantage in time to serve and cost. AES is uniquely positioned  to meet this surge and during 2024 signed 9.5 gigawatts (GW) of  agreements directly with technology customers, including long-term  power purchase agreements (PPAs) for clean energy and load growth  at our US utilities.   In 2024, we invested more than $1.6 billion across our utilities in El"
"Salvador and the US to modernize infrastructure, improve reliability,  and begin our coal-to-natural gas plant conversion at AES Indiana.  These investments support the continued delivery of reliable  and affordable power to our customers today, while building the  infrastructure that will support economic and digital transformation  tomorrow.   During the year, we completed construction of 3 GW of renewable  energy projects. We also brought our second combined cycle gas  plant in Panama online,"
"significantly enhancing the resilience of the  country’s power grid during drought conditions. Our diversified portfolio of generation assets, with 32 GW in  operation, together with our backlog of 12 GW of renewables (those  Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report  4 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Executive Summary  This report highlights our"
"progress and achievements in 2024, while  outlining our strategic approach to meeting growing energy demand  in 2025 and beyond.   This past year, we continued to deliver on our purpose of accelerating  the future of energy, together, by providing innovative, sustainable  solutions to meet evolving energy needs. Guided by our People- Planet-Accountability impact framework, we focused on improving  lives, delivering reliable energy, and operating with integrity across the  markets we serve.  To"
"meet the evolving needs and goals of our customers and  communities, we advanced our all-of-the-above energy approach,  integrating renewable and thermal generation, energy storage,  liquefied natural gas (LNG) infrastructure, and emerging technologies.  This diversified approach continues to ensure grid reliability and  energy security, critical to economic growth and resilience across the  markets where we operate.  AES is uniquely positioned to meet the rising electricity demand  driven by"
"the electrification of industry and our customers’ rapid  energy demand growth in sectors such as AI and mining. We  are expanding our partnerships with leading global technology  companies, with ~70 percent of PPA signings in 2024 with corporate  customers. Our leadership in renewable energy was once again  recognized by BNEF, naming AES the #1 provider of clean energy to  corporations globally.   We added 3 GW of renewable energy to our portfolio, commissioned  a 670 MW combined cycle natural"
"gas plant, and exited or announced  the sale of 1 GW of coal generation. These milestones helped us  accelerate our transformation, with solar and wind generation growing  by over 25 percent, while coal-fired generation fell to less than 30  percent of total production. Equally important, in 2024 we exceeded  safety performance benchmarks and had zero fatalities among our  more than 27,000 employees and contractors, underscoring our  strong culture of safety and accountability.  Our impact goes"
"beyond capacity added or energy generated.  In 2024, we generated enough electricity to meet the annual  consumption needs of 17 million people, while reducing our Scope 1  emissions by 17 percent and lowering our carbon intensity compared  to 2023. Through more than 500 community initiatives, we reached  around 1.9 million people, supporting access to energy, workforce  development, and disaster resilience, among others.   Our achievements are driven by our ongoing commitment to  innovation, a"
"defining characteristic of AES that continues to set us  apart in the industry. We pride ourselves in helping our customers  address complex energy challenges by integrating advanced  technologies into tailored innovative solutions.  More than 15 years  ago, AES pioneered the first grid-scale lithium-ion battery storage  systems, laying the foundation for what is now a critical pillar in  meeting global energy demand. Batteries were included in 65 percent  of our new renewable projects last"
"year, underscoring how essential  energy storage is to renewable integration. Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report  5 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION This spirit of innovation continues to earn industry recognition. AES  is the only seven-time winner of the Edison Electric Institute’s Edison  Awards in the twenty-first century, a distinction"
"honoring global  leadership in advancing the electric power industry. We were proud  to be named as a 2024 Edison Award finalist for the Meanguera del  Golfo project in El Salvador, a solar-plus-battery storage system for  remote island communities. We continued to push the boundaries of  innovation with the launch of Maximo, our AI-enabled solar installation  robot that enhances safety, speed, and precision while reducing  physical strain on our construction teams.   Behind every success is our"
"team of 9,100 individuals, who bring AES’  purpose to life. In 2024, we invested in reskilling and development  programs, empowering our workforce to thrive in a rapidly evolving  energy landscape. We continued to foster a strong workplace culture,  earning prominent positions in Great Place to Work™ rankings  across the markets where we operate. Further reflecting our focus  on ethical leadership and accountability, AES was named one of  the World’s Most Ethical Companies for the 11th"
"consecutive year,  highlighting our dedication to integrity, transparency, and responsible       business practices.   From the Atacama Desert in South America to our utilities’ service  areas in the Midwest of the US, our people work alongside partners  and communities to deliver reliable, sustainable energy solutions that  are transforming lives and powering economies. With every connection we make and  every innovation we deploy, we continue  to drive progress toward a smarter and  more"
"resilient future for generations           to come. Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report  6 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION About AES Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report  7 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES"
"CORPORATION 32.1 GW in operation (gross)  4.9 MW  under construction $12.3 billion  total 2024  revenues $47.4 billion  total assets owned  and managed 2.7 million  utility customers Our Values Safety first Safety is at the core of everything we do.  We always identify potential risks to our  people, contractors, customers, partners and  communities, and measure success by how  safely we conduct our work together while  contributing to our business objectives.  Highest standards We act with"
"utmost integrity towards our  people, contractors, customers, partners and  communities, and hold the solutions we deliver  together to global standards of excellence. All together We work as one team across our business  and with our people, contractors, customers,  partners and communities.  AES at the end of 2024  In 1981, Roger Sant and Dennis Bakke turned their vision of delivering  world-class energy solutions into reality with the founding of AES.  From our first power plant in Texas to"
"our current global generation  capacity of 32 GW, we align our initiatives with our purpose of  accelerating the future of energy, together and our ultimate goal of  improving lives, by providing the energy solutions the world needs.  Headquartered in Arlington, Virginia, AES is the largest US-based  global power company with a diverse team of approximately 9,100  employees across 12 countries, as of the end of 2024. We have  consistently delivered innovative solutions and new technologies  to"
"create value for our customers, and support the markets and  communities where we live and work. In 2024, by leveraging our scale  and expertise, we generated enough electricity to power the needs of  17 million people across our markets. Natural Gas  32% Solar 21% Coal 16% Wind 11% Other 2% Energy Storage  6% Hydro 12% Installed capacity by fuel type Thermal Innovation is embedded in our culture. We pioneered the first  documented carbon offset program in the US in 1989 and later  introduced"
"utility-scale energy storage in 2009. This passion for  innovation has earned us seven Edison Electric Institute Edison  Awards. AES offers a broad portfolio of energy solutions, spanning renewable  and thermal generation, energy storage, LNG infrastructure, and  cutting-edge technologies. We embrace an all-of-the-above approach  to meet the unique needs of each market we serve, ensuring grid  reliability and security, which are essential to economic stability and  resilience across the markets"
"where we operate.  Our broad and flexible portfolio positions AES as the leading provider  of clean energy to corporations worldwide, and the largest importer  of U.S. LNG in Central America and the Caribbean.  Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report  8 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION We are organized into four technology-oriented Strategic Business"
"Units (SBUs) Renewables Solar, wind, energy storage, and hydro generation  facilities1. Utilities Regulated utilities businesses in AES Indiana, AES Ohio, AES El Salvador and their generation facilities.  Energy Infrastructure  Natural gas, coal, pet coke, diesel, and oil  generation facilities, as well as LNG infrastructure1.  New Energy Technologies Investments in new and innovative technologies to  support leading-edge energy solutions.  The AES Corporation (NYSE:AES)  is a publicly traded"
"energy company  incorporated under the laws of  Delaware and is governed by a Board  of Directors. For additional details,  please refer to our 2024 Annual  Report.  1 Energy Infrastructure SBU included renewable assets in Chile up until the end of 2024. Starting in 2025 renewable assets in Chile are included in the Renewable SBU. Energy Infrastructure  Renewables Utilities New Energy  Technologies US Mexico El Salvador Panama Chile1 Argentina Dominican Republic The Netherlands Jordan Bulgaria"
"Vietnam Colombia Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report  9 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Our Business Strategy Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report  10 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION At AES, our"
"strategy is driven by our purpose of accelerating the  future of energy, together. It is anchored in our values that align  innovation with responsibility, and ambition with accountability.  Through our People-Planet-Accountability impact framework, we  deliver solutions that not only power homes and fuel economic  growth but also benefit the environment and society across all our  business units. We lead in energy innovation, delivering smarter, more resilient  solutions for a rapidly changing"
"world. Through close collaboration  with our partners and customers, we address evolving energy needs  across industries and geographies. As electricity consumption growth  accelerates, driven by AI, electrification, and reindustrialization, AES  is uniquely positioned to meet the new demand with our outcome- focused approach and diversified portfolio. Customers choose AES for our proven track record in delivering  scalable, results-driven energy solutions. We offer customized,  technology-"
"agnostic solutions tailored to meet their unique needs  and goals. By providing reliable power, enhancing  grid stability, supporting energy security,  and enabling economic growth we  create value for our people, partners,  customers, shareholders, and the  communities that we serve. Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy Our Impact Framework Energy Infrastructure Renewables Utilities New Energy Technologies People Planet Accountability About this Report"
"11 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Our Impact Framework  Our People-Planet-Accountability framework supports our strategy, ensuring that our decisions and actions  align with our business objectives and commitments, and create shared value across our stakeholder groups. The  energy transition requires smart, scalable, solutions to meet demand while improving lives, protecting the planet and  promoting economic development with the"
"highest standards.  Our objectives Our framework Our values Becoming the  partner of choice Achieving   net-zero emissions Creating value for  all our stakeholders People Improving lives         Æ Empowering our people         Æ Partnering with communities   Æ Enabling a responsible transition Planet Protecting the environment   Æ Combating climate change      Æ Environmental stewardship:  Biodiversity, Air, Waste, Water   Æ Innovating for sustainability Accountability Delivering with integrity"
"Æ Ethics and compliance         Æ Governance, reporting and risk        Æ Sustainable supply chain Safety first Highest standard All together Accountability - Delivering with integrity We understand the responsibility communities place on us to  deliver safe, affordable, and reliable power. Our decision-making  and actions are guided by a strong ethics and compliance  program. We have governance, business continuity, and reporting  processes in place, and prioritize cybersecurity and emergency"
"responses to protect critical energy infrastructure. Planet - Protecting the environment  We prioritize environmental stewardship, from reducing emissions  and supporting a circular economy to safeguarding the air, water,  and biodiversity around us. By integrating dual land use, targeted  conservation efforts, and advanced energy technologies, we help  mitigate the impacts of climate change while strengthening the  energy grids that support economic growth.   People - Improving lives We empower"
"our workforce through our safety programs, training  and development opportunities, as well as employee engagement  resources. Our dedication extends to our suppliers, contractors  and the communities we serve. Through strong community  partnerships, we support economic development, expand job  opportunities, and improve quality of life.     Accelerating the future of energy, together Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy Our Impact Framework Energy"
"Infrastructure Renewables Utilities New Energy Technologies People Planet Accountability About this Report  12 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Efficient thermal generation in our Energy Infrastructure SBU, plays  a critical role in supporting energy security by providing flexible,  around-the-clock power. These technologies and infrastructure also  complement intermittent renewable energy sources by ensuring  reliability during periods"
"of variability in supply and demand. AES has played a pioneering role in creating and expanding the  liquefied natural gas (LNG) market in the Dominican Republic and  Panama, transforming local economies and bringing benefits beyond  electricity generation. As the Central America and the Caribbean  leading importer of U.S. LNG, AES channels over $1 billion annually  of natural gas into the Dominican Republic and Panama through our  world-class terminals. When LNG was first introduced in the"
"Dominican Republic in 2003,  it became one of only 15 countries globally, and the only one in  an emerging market, with an LNG terminal. Since then, the fuel  has transformed the country’s energy landscape, accounting for  approximately 40 percent of total generation, serving as a cost- effective solution that has displaced diesel and oil-fired generation.  This shift has enabled more affordable and stable electricity prices,  offering long-term cost predictability that supports national"
"planning  and investment. Combined, our LNG facilities in Panama and the Dominican Republic  have delivered $500 million in annual fuel-cost savings across both  markets, helping achieve sustained economic growth. Powering energy resilience in Panamá In 2024, together with our partners we completed the construction of Gatún, a 670 MW combined cycle gas plant in Panama. During  the construction phase the project created more than 3,000 jobs – directly and indirectly – promoting economic"
"development in the  area. We also maintained a strong commitment to safety throughout the project, completing more than 9.5 million work hours without a  single lost time injury, reflecting the shared safety culture across our people and contractors. Gatún leverages our existing LNG terminal in the country at AES Colón. Together, our natural gas assets in Panamá, reduce electricity  price volatility and increase grid reliability and stability by reducing dependance on rainfall for hydro"
"generation.   Flexibility enabling growth Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy Our Impact Framework Energy Infrastructure Renewables Utilities New Energy Technologies People Planet Accountability About this Report  13 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Mississippi's first utility-scale wind project  Powering Amazon’s regional operations, AES’ Delta - 185  MW onshore wind plant- is located in Tunica"
"County,  Mississippi, and is the state’s first utility-scale wind farm.  The project created nearly 300 jobs during construction,  increasing local tax revenue. Located on 14,000 acres,  the project is designed to allow continued agricultural  use, harmonizing renewable energy production with  traditional farming activities.   Learn more   Renewable energy generated from solar, wind, and hydro is key to  meeting today’s surging electricity demand, offering a fast, cost- effective path to"
"support economic development, including the rapid  demand growth from AI, electrification and reindustrialization.  Renewable projects can come online much faster than traditional  thermal projects, allowing us to meet the significant growth in  customer demand in a timely manner. In addition, our carbon-free  energy solutions provide price certainty (no variable fuel cost),  affordability and are tailored to meet customers’ needs while helping  businesses and communities achieve their goals."
"We have had great success partnering with data centers and large  corporations transitioning to carbon-free sources of electricity,  and are the leading provider of clean energy to corporations in the  world2. Our well-established relationships with leading technology  customers with over 9.5 GW of signed agreements since 2018, and  our track record of project delivery, successfully positions AES for  the expected growth in electricity demand.  In 2024, we completed the construction or"
"acquisition of 3 GW  of renewables and signed long-term contracts for 4.4 GW of  renewables, bringing our backlog of projects to 11.9 GW as of          year end. Fastest time to power 2 According to BNEF, AES was the largest seller of clean energy to corporations through PPAs in 2021, 2022 and 2024.  Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy Our Impact Framework Energy Infrastructure Renewables Utilities New Energy Technologies People Planet Accountability"
"About this Report  14 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Powering communities and industries As more renewables come online and the sector transforms, resilient  grid infrastructure and digital solutions are essential to enabling  the energy transition. In 2024, our utilities served 2.7 million people,  while supporting critical infrastructure and maintaining impactful  partnerships across the communities and industries we power.   We"
"continue to invest across our utilities in Indiana, Ohio, and  El Salvador to modernize and expand energy infrastructure— strengthening grid reliability, improving service quality and operational  efficiency, and enabling broader access to safe, affordable, and  reliable electricity. These efforts also enhance resiliency, leading to  tangible benefits such as faster power restoration after severe storm  events and contributing to local economic growth.   As part of our commitment to accelerating"
"the transition to a smarter,  more sustainable energy system, we are collaborating with Google’s  moonshot factory on Tapestry, a groundbreaking initiative harnessing  advanced AI to virtualize and modernize grid operations. Tapestry provides grid operators with a unified, virtual view of the  grid, enabling faster complex scenario modeling. With highly accurate  models, Tapestry helps manage all the generation and transmission  assets of the grid and predict how they will behave from"
"milliseconds  to years into the future, strengthening long-term infrastructure  planning. By increasing efficiency, reliability, and renewable  integration, Tapestry is helping build a more resilient, affordable, and  future-ready energy system. Pike County: Investing in local growth and innovation AES Indiana is investing $1.1 billion in the new Petersburg Energy  Center, a comprehensive initiative that brings together a range of  technologies to ensure customers reliable and affordable"
"electricity.  This includes the repowering of the Petersburg Generating Station  from coal to a high-efficiency natural gas power plant as well as  the addition of 250 MW of solar generation and 180 MWh battery      energy storage.   Building on more than 50 years of partnership with Pike County,  AES Indiana is committed  to creating jobs and strengthening local  communities. These projects are part of Indiana’s Integrated Resource  Plan (IRP) and are transforming the state’s energy landscape"
"while  driving economic growth.    Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy Our Impact Framework Energy Infrastructure Renewables Utilities New Energy Technologies People Planet Accountability About this Report  15 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Automating Solar Installations  Maximo is a first-of-its-kind AES-developed solar robot  designed to enhance the speed, efficiency and safety of  solar"
"installations. This robot works alongside AES’ skilled  workforce and construction teams by using AI to automate  the lifting, placement, and fastening of solar modules with  high-speed robotic arms and precision module placement,  delivering full end-to-end automation of the mechanical  installation of solar modules. Maximo enhances safety,  supportting to the workforce by performing the heavy lifting in  the installation of solar panels.  Maximo is being used for autonomous solar module"
"installation  at the Bellefield project, a 1 GW solar + storage facility in Kern  County, California, under contract with Amazon. In the hot  desert environment of the project, Maximo is a partner to the  workforce and equipped to perform heavy lifting, keeping the  project on track despite the extreme temperatures. The energy landscape is rapidly evolving, and we are creating solutions to address the bottlenecks in the energy transition – like the time required for building new transmission"
"infrastructure and the complexities  of managing renewable intermittency. To meet these challenges, we develop in-house solutions, form new partnerships, and invest in innovative companies. Our methodology focuses on incubating and investing in  cutting-edge solutions to address the sector’s most pressing challenges. By combining our industry expertise with insights into applications for new technologies, ideas are scaled quickly, bringing transformation  across the energy sector.  Learn more  "
"Scaling innovative solutions Pioneering Energy Storage Solutions AES has played a leading role in creating the global battery  energy storage market, which according to BNEF, is 69 GW  and is projected to grow to reach over 500 GW by 2030. In 2009, we introduced the world’s first utility-scale battery  energy storage system on the electric grid in Chile, and in the  following years pioneered deployments in other markets and  countries, paving the way for a cleaner, more resilient energy  future."
"Through a joint venture with Siemens this business  evolved to be Fluence and it is now a leading global provider  of energy storage products and services. Today, we continue to push the boundaries of what’s possible  with battery energy storage systems, pairing them with  solar to deliver flexible, low-carbon solutions and applying  them to maximize generation output. Battery energy  storage systems are now a major component of our growth  strategy. Standalone battery and solar plus-storage"
"projects  represented 65 percent of the 2.7 GW of renewables capacity  that completed construction in 2024.  Integrating Artificial Intelligence We are harnessing the power of AI to accelerate innovation,  improve operational efficiency, and enhance safety across our  business. Applications include generative AI for safety audits,  predictive analytics for energy generation, and AI-driven  market insights. Our Farseer AI program, developed in partnership with  Google, integrates advanced machine"
"learning for more  accurate renewable generation forecasting and for  automating energy market biddings strategies. This initiative  supports more reliable and sustainable energy delivery and  earned the 2024 CIO Award for IT Leadership and Innovation.  In 2024 we announced a strategic partnership with AI Fund to  collaborate on co-building companies that leverage AI to  tackle energy industry bottleneck and challenges. Learn more   Learn more   Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary"
"About AES Our Business Strategy Our Impact Framework Energy Infrastructure Renewables Utilities New Energy Technologies People Planet Accountability About this Report  16 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION        People Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report  17 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION"
"Empowering our People  Our strength lies in the perspectives, expertise and diverse backgrounds  of our 9,100 people, representing 68 nationalities across 12 countries. Our  people are united by a shared passion for innovation and collaboration.  We aim to create a workplace where people feel valued, empowered  and engaged, enabling us to drive meaningful change and create lasting  positive impact. We want our people to feel connected to the work they do and to the  colleagues they work"
"alongside; and one way we foster this sense of  belonging is through Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). These voluntary  groups bring people together around shared missions or causes, helping  raise awareness, strengthen relationships, and encourage collaboration. In  2024, more than 10 ERGs were active across the company.  We invest significant time and resources to ensure our compensation  programs are competitive in the different markets we operate, and reward  the performance of our people."
"Our analysis focuses on pay equity  which we evaluate continuously throughout the employee lifecycle, from  recruitment and hiring to annual talent and compensation reviews. We also  track our minimum pay levels against the minimum wage in every country  we operate. Our program provides valuable benefits such as annual paid leave, and  our people management platform enables both AES and our people to  track time off and ensure leave entitlements are used. The platform also  includes a time"
"tracking system to monitor working hours and manage  overtime to ensure accurate payment for eligible positions. AES businesses regularly engage with labor unions and employee  representatives on diverse topics such as working conditions or employee  development. Where we have unionized workforces, we work diligently to  participate in effective collective bargaining efforts. As of the end of 2024,  approximately 80 percent of eligible employees were covered by collective  bargaining agreements."
"As an Equal Opportunity Employer, we consider applicants for  employment based on merit, skills, and qualifications. We partner with  Troops to Energy to support veterans, transitioning service members, and  military spouses to explore open positions and start a career in the energy  sector. We view learning as well as feedback as a continuous process. All  AES people have tools to give, receive, and request feedback at any time  and from anyone in the organization to continue to grow and"
"develop. 9,100+ people Under 30 13% Women 26% Men 74% 30-49 59% 50+ 28% 68 nationalities Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Empowering our People Safety and Well-Being Stakeholder Engagement Partnering with Communities Suppliers Human Rights Planet Accountability About this Report  18 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION 70% Experience and exposure  Employees who are exposed  to new career"
"development  opportunities. 20% Learning through others  Leaders who gain a better  understanding through  continuous communication  and feedback, not only better  understand their role and  responsibilities, but also what  skills they need to grow   their career. 10% Formal learning Tools and programs for  our people to grow their  professional skillset,  evolve their leadership  competencies and take their  career to the   next level.  The talent and learning team continuously evaluate"
"programs under the 70-20-10 framework, not only to  measure the impact for the company and our people, but also to ensure the effectiveness and relevance  of the programs.  Each year, all AES people can receive training and development in a variety of topics for multiple levels,  from technical and reskilling programs to executive education further developing their careers. Some of  these programs and training courses are performed in partnership with educational institutions. Talent development"
"As we strive to attract, develop, and retain talent, we invest in our people’s growth—both professionally and  personally—so they can reach their full potential, and collectively contribute to AES achieving its goals.   The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors oversees matters related to human capital  management, including, but not limited to, talent acquisition, development and retention.  We take a comprehensive approach to talent management and leadership development, ensuring"
"our  people have the skills needed for both today and the future. Our global talent management strategy  supports every stage of an AES person’s journey and emphasizes the importance of on-the-job experiences  and exposure. To help our people reach their full potential, we focus on three main pillars:  Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Empowering our People Safety and Well-Being Stakeholder Engagement Partnering with Communities Suppliers Human"
"Rights Planet Accountability About this Report  19 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Assessment and  career planning  We include 360° assessments  that help our people to identify  their strengths and areas of  opportunity, allowing a broader  perspective on how their work  is perceived and impacts others,  identifying gaps for continuous  improvement. We have a yearly  performance management cycle  that ensures all employees  create and"
"follow up on individual  objectives and development  plans, with manager evaluation  and a team's calibration  in conjunction with human  resources. In addition, a variable  compensation for employees is  determined considering a portion  of the employee individual's  performance and a portion of the  company goals’ performance,  which values the team effort on  achieving a broader goal. We also  leverage from Anytime Feedback,  a digital tool to provide and  receive feedback at any time from"
"anyone in the organization.  AES learning   A digital platform that provides  our people with professional  development opportunities,  learning content, and training. The  tools have allowed us to integrate  a global talent development  framework connecting individual  development plans with  learning modules, supporting  the development needs of the  business. In addition to the  courses provided by the platform,  more than 7,000 internal courses  have been created to continue to  support the"
"development needs  and professional growth of our  people. In recent years we have  seen an increase in the percent  of open positions that are filled  with internal candidates (~19  percent in 2019 before program  implementation compared to  ~24 percent in 2024). This was  possible because we have  an internal pipeline of trained  employees that acquire new skills  and capabilities beyond their  current role and were prepared to  assume different positions within  the organization. APEX (AES"
"Performance  Excellence)  For 18 years, our people have  been trained in efficiency,  problem solving, and performance  improvement through  methodologies such as Lean  and Six Sigma. More than 4,580  projects have been implemented  under our APEX program. During  2024, projects using APEX  methodologies translated into  over $6 million in benefits to       the organization.   Multi-disciplinary  transformation  teams  Our Energy Star program  provides AES people with an  opportunity to expand"
"their  skills, enhance their capabilities,  and be a part of a cross  functional team that oversees  a project that is considered  transformational for the entire  company. In 2024, 9 workstreams  involving ~779 employees  enabled transformation across  renewables, operations,  commercial, and other key  business areas. The smart  operations workstream, for  example, included technical  expertise sharing, implementation  of AI and machine learning  systems, and operational reliability"
"improvements across the fleet,  resulting in organizational benefits  such as increased revenue and  reduced maintenance costs,  totaling over $20 million. Leadership skills  We have a program designed  to provide our people with the  foundation to be leaders and  grow within our company. The  program focuses on fundamental  leadership concepts, which  include tools to articulate  strategies for engaging team  members, critical skills to improve  communication, structuring  strategic"
"conversations about  goal-setting and a framework  to better innovate on the job.  During 2024, 24 leaders from  our renewable businesses in the  US participated in the program.  In addition, more than 400 AES  people enrolled in leadership  related courses and journeys,  collectively completing over 3,500  hours of video content. 2024 performance  In 2024, average training per person was over 110 hours with an average amount spent per full-time employee (FTE) close to $900. See the 2024 Excel"
"File  (People – Talent Management) for more performance data on training.  Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Empowering our People Safety and Well-Being Stakeholder Engagement Partnering with Communities Suppliers Human Rights Planet Accountability About this Report  20 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION “Joining AES’ E4T, I’ve found a fast track to industry  expertise. E4T has a culture"
"that fosters growth  and celebrates progress, offering me diverse paths                         to success.”  Marie Abam-DePass Trainee based in the US   “I believe that E4T generates a tremendously positive  impact for junior professionals. I am developing both my  personal and professional skills through direct contact  with different areas across the organization.”  Emanuel Martínez Trainee based in Argentina Energy4Talent: Empowering the next generation of leaders After a record number of"
"4,500 applications received in 2023,  in 2024 24 recent college graduates across 6 countries were  hired into our two-year rotational program, gaining practical  experience and exposure to unique insights and professional  connections while working on cross-functional teams  throughout our company to prepare for future leadership  roles. Since its inception in 2018, our Energy4Talent (E4T)  program has developed more than 150 college graduates.  The AES Energy Innovation Challenge is an effort"
"to develop  relationships with universities and create meaningful opportunities  for aspiring energy professionals to engage with AES leaders  and people. It challenges teams of graduate students to solve the  most pressing issues facing the energy industry. The program  began in the US and has since expanded internationally. The  program is led by former and current Energy4Talent Trainees to  maintain its unique bottom-up approach. The Energy Innovation  Challenge team has collaborated with the"
"Talent Acquisition team  to create a platform for AES people to connect with universities,  professors, and students.  90+ teams   across 3 countries 40+  universities 400+  students AES Innovation Challenge Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Empowering our People Safety and Well-Being Stakeholder Engagement Partnering with Communities Suppliers Human Rights Planet Accountability About this Report  21 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY"
"REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION to a multi-year learning journey designed to strengthen skills and  support career development. Training opportunities include renewable  energy technologies—such battery storage, solar, and wind—  alongside data analytics tools and courses in entrepreneurship. The  entrepreneurship course equips participants with key knowledge  on market analysis and business concepts, providing participants  with tools to launch their own business ventures if"
"they choose  to leave AES. By fostering a skilled and adaptable workforce, the  program allows participants to be prepared for the demands of the  energy transition and emerging industry needs and expand their job  opportunities within the sector. Similarly, in Hawai'i, Maryland, and Puerto Rico, we developed  reskilling programs aimed at requalifying workforce competencies  through a hybrid training model that combines virtual learning and  hands-on experience in renewable energy technologies."
"As part of an exciting re-skilling process, the company  offered me the opportunity to take renewable energy  courses with a technical institution and a university for  a year and a half. After the training, there were some  internal job openings, and I felt motivated to apply for  a new position at a wind farm. Today, after 10 years  with the company, I am proud to have gone from the  control room of a coal-fired power plant to overseeing  a wind farm on the ground. This process has been an"
"incredible adventure of growth and transformation! Gessuri García Wind Operations and Maintenance Senior  Engineer. Chile As our portfolio has transformed, as part of our just transition approach,  we work closely with our people, communities, local governments,  unions, and other stakeholders to ensure coal plant retirements,  conversions, and new builds are accompanied by a responsible path  forward (further detailed in the Community Relations section).   For our people working at impacted"
"coal plants, we aim to provide  opportunities for internal mobility, as well as reskilling programs that  equip them with the tools and training needed to take on roles in  emerging technologies—either inside or outside the organization.  For the third year in a row, AES Chile has implemented its Labor  Reconversion Training Plan in partnership with different technical  institutions including Adolfo Ibáñez University. This program offers  a variety of theoretical and practical courses designed"
"to develop  technical, entrepreneurial, and digital skills. Employees have access  More than 350+ people participated in re-skilling programs  in Chile and the United States. See the 2024 Excel File  (People – Talent Management) for more performance data on  reskilling and training.  2024 performance  Reskilling and training Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Empowering our People Safety and Well-Being Stakeholder Engagement Partnering with"
"Communities Suppliers Human Rights Planet Accountability About this Report  22 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION We actively seek feedback from our employees or their  representatives and offer multiple opportunities to allow them to  engage with leadership and ask questions, including regular company- wide meetings led by the CEO and Executive Team, quarterly senior  leader updates, and management leadership and strategy meetings.  In"
"addition, we actively listen to our employees by gathering  feedback through annual assessments, engagement surveys, and  questionnaires from recognized institutions. These evaluations  provide a review of our programs, policies, and benefits, allowing us to  continuously monitor and enhance employee satisfaction.  Employee engagement 2024 performance  During 2024 about 75 percent  of our people participated  in employee engagement  assessments that on average  showed 80 percent satisfaction."
"In 2024 we were ranked as one of the best companies to work for in most of the countries where we operate,  including: Argentina, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Mexico, Panama, Puerto Rico, and  the United States.   According to the Great Place to Work Institute (GPTW), AES ranked eighteenth on the “Best Places to Work”  in Latin America; AES Chile, AES Dominicana and AES Servicios América (our shared business service center  in Argentina) were ranked in the top five of"
"“Great Place to Work for Women”; and AES Servicios América  ranked second in the  “Companies that Care”.  In addition to the GPTW  certification, AES received other  recognitions for our human  resources practices. A full list  can be found in our Excel file  (People – Talent Management).   Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Empowering our People Safety and Well-Being Stakeholder Engagement Partnering with Communities Suppliers Human Rights"
"Planet Accountability About this Report  23 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Safety and Well-being Safety is fundamental to everything we do. As our first value, it is  embedded in our Code of Conduct and guides our actions across all  operations. The Governance Committee of our Board of Directors  is responsible for the periodic review and oversight of our safety  program, policies, and employee health and safety.  We aim to proactively"
"identify and mitigate potential risks to our  people, contractors, customers, partners, communities and the  environment, and we measure success by how safely we conduct our  work together while contributing to our business objectives.  Each operation is responsible for establishing and maintaining a planning  process to identify hazards, assess risks, and implement effective  mitigation measures based on the hierarchy of controls (elimination,  substitution, engineering controls, administrative"
"controls, and personal  protective equipment). Additionally, safety risk assessments must  be conducted before initiating any activity in new projects under  construction and during the due diligence process for new operations.  Our Safety Management System (SMS) aligns with the OHSAS  18001/ISO 45001 Occupational Health and Safety Management  System model, ensuring a consistent framework for safety  expectations across all AES. This applies to both our employees and  contractors working at AES"
"facilities and construction projects. At its  core, our SMS is built on AES Safety Beliefs and Safety Principles,  reinforcing our commitment to a strong safety culture. The SMS establishes the expectation to involve employees in the  development and review of policies and procedures to manage  and reduce risks, consultations when there are changes that affect  workplace health and safety and in representation on health and  safety matters. Safety committees at our locations, composed of staff"
"from various levels, play a key role in fostering a strong safety culture  and driving performance improvements. These committees monitor  the implementation of the SMS through inspections, observations,  audits, and improvement plans.  As part of the SMS, our standardized tool enables the ability to  conduct incident investigation root cause analysis to generate  targeted action plans and prevent recurrence.  Compliance with the SMS and associated standards is monitored  through internal and"
"external audits. Internal audits are conducted  every six months, while independent/external corporate audits take  place every three years. For each audit finding, a corrective action  plan is developed, and overall audit performance is regularly reported  to executive leadership. Our safety program fosters a culture where everyone is responsible,  empowered, and encouraged to speak up, ask questions and, raise  concerns. Also, our people and contractors have the right and  obligation to stop"
"work as soon as they identify a situation they  believe to be unsafe. To support this, the Speaking Safely Helpline  provides a secure, anonymous channel for reporting safety concerns  or violations without retaliation. Managed by a third-party vendor, the  helpline ensures confidentiality and objective handling of all reports.  The fact that we at AES always prioritize our well-being  and that of our colleagues is something that gives me  satisfaction and inspires me. Another thing I like is"
"that we  all have the authority to stop work. It gives me confidence  that any of us can stop any work we consider unsafe,  regardless of our position and without fear of retaliation. Wilfredo Diaz Maintenance  Manager - Puerto Rico Occupational health and safety Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Empowering our People Safety and Well-Being Stakeholder Engagement Partnering with Communities Suppliers Human Rights Planet Accountability About this"
"Report  24 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION 20 years of teaching safe energy use Across our global operations, we foster a culture of safety,  education, and environmental responsibility through  community outreach. Dynamic and accessible lectures, videos  and interactions, help people of all ages understand how to  interact safely and responsibly with electricity. From high- voltage demonstrations in that vividly illustrate the dangers"
"of  electricity, to hands-on learning in Panamá and El Salvador,  we teach safe and efficient energy use across all age groups. AES has been running programs like these for 20 years and  educated over 38,000 people in 2024. Well-being We are committed to providing a safe and healthy working  environment. Working across diverse jurisdictions, our comprehensive  benefits are designed to support the well-being of our people and  promote their long-term success. Each of our businesses tailor"
"programs and benefits to the realities of each location, going beyond  public programs. Some examples include support and flexible  arrangements for lactation, parental leave and contributions for  childcare and physical fitness.  Well-being resources are available on a dedicated intranet site and  through third-party benefit programs. One of our partners provides  comprehensive mental health solutions that support our people both  personally and professionally—from managing stress and improving"
"focus  to navigating everyday challenges and maintaining overall well-being.   We also provide access to a well-being partner app that helps our  people improve their health. Through the app, they can track daily  and fitness activities, biometrics, join challenges, earn rewards, and  access personalized coaching and resources. US domestic partner parental leave  AES offers domestic partner benefits in the United States for anyone  in a committed relationship regardless of gender or marital"
"status. Our  parental leave program in the US is designed to provide equal benefits  to all parents, including the birth mother and father, adoptive parents  and nonbiological parents.   The parent benefit provides six weeks of leave at full pay. An  additional six weeks of medical leave is also provided to birth mothers  with an extra two weeks for a cesarean section. In 2021, AES  launched a fertility program, and in 2022 we expanded to include  adoption benefits. Since 2023, parental leave"
"includes time off for  long-term foster placement and adjustment.  Flexible work arrangements  We enable our people to balance home and work obligations in a way  that makes sense for them and the company. These arrangements  are defined and reinforced by regular and candid employee-manager  communications to ensure work expectations are met. Public safety Our Safety First value guides how we operate inside and outside our  sites. We monitor any public injury incidents and fatality cases that"
"may occur when members of the community interact with our medium  and low voltage systems during activities like residential construction,  vegetation pruning, touching downed electrical lines, flying kites, and  playing near our networks and sites.  We take these incidents seriously and implement the necessary  mitigation controls and measures to prevent them in the future. Our  utilities have public awareness campaigns to communicate and  mitigate the risks associated with activities near our"
"power lines, and  to promote the safe use of electricity.  Contractors Our dedication to safety extends to all AES employees, as well  as contractors. We communicate our expectations to potential  suppliers, including our Contractor Safety Management Standard,  which outlines the safety management requirements for the entire  contracting process: from the requisition of work to the contract  closure, incorporating a site-specific safety plan.  After a contractor company has been pre-qualified,"
"it must participate  in a site safety orientation training session and pass a test before  being permitted to begin any work. Upon completion of the job, a final  assessment of the contractor's safety performance is required.  We measure the safety performance of our contractors using the  same metrics we use for our people. The performance is evaluated  on a monthly basis and whenever we observe negative trends,  we perform a root case analysis to identify areas of improvement  and define"
"action plans to control and improve the performance.  Beyond additional training, some actions include: measurement of  safety culture using perception safety surveys to identify behavioral  improvement opportunities, improve effective monitoring and  supervision of contractors, and share lessons learned from incidents  with the contractors.  Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Empowering our People Safety and Well-Being Stakeholder Engagement"
"Partnering with Communities Suppliers Human Rights Planet Accountability About this Report  25 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION 2024 performance  3 We are excluding renewable assets in United States, the majority of which (~84 percent) are smaller than 20 MW. Only assets that are operational as of year end 2024 were included. We work in an inherently high-risk industry, where our employees  and contractors face different risks, whether"
"at operating facilities  or performing construction activities on our sites. We achieved  our target of zero fatalities in 2024, for our more than 27,000  people and contractors and met all our proactive safety goals.    To prevent incidents we track leading metrics, including  safety walks, unsafe behaviors and conditions, reporting and  investigation of near-miss incidents, and tracking the progress  of SMS goals and action plans. Over 21,000 safety walks were  performed during 2024.  We also"
"track lost time incident (LTI) rates for employees and  contractors based on OHSAS standards to be comparable  across industries. For LTI rates, we aim to be below the US  utility industry’s top quartile benchmark LTI rates (0.18) and  we continued to exceed the benchmark during 2024. We also  experienced a decrease in LTI rates for our people, operational  and construction contractors.  In 2024, more than 23,700 AES people and contractors  participated in monthly safety meetings that cover key"
"performance metrics, lessons learned, and relevant safety  topics. Also, 7,000 AES people participated in online safety  trainings through our digital learning platform. Compared to  2023, we saw an increase in the number of people trained, driven  by the inclusion of our renewable business in the US and the  implementation of specific training on SMS updated standards.  Approximately 60 percent3 of AES people and contractors  worked at a location that have voluntarily certified their SMS to"
"the OHSAS 18001/ISO 45001 international standards.   We are proud of the recognitions AES has received for our  commitment to a variety of external safety standards as well as a  strong safety culture and performance. For detailed information on our  health and safety metrics and a complete list of external recognitions,  please refer to the Excel file (People – Health and Safety)  Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Empowering our People Safety"
"and Well-Being Stakeholder Engagement Partnering with Communities Suppliers Human Rights Planet Accountability About this Report  26 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Stakeholder Engagement Members of the Board Chair, Energy   Working Group Members of the Board Members of the Board4 Chair of the Board Executive Committee  and Members of   the Board Members of the Board Members of the Board Members of the Board 4 We left the organization"
"In October 2024, after AES concluded the sale of its equity interest in AES Brasil. As we strive to be the partner, provider, advisor, and neighbor of choice, we take a proactive and  collaborative approach to build lasting trust based relationships through meaningful engagement.  To reinforce this approach, our Global Stakeholder Engagement Playbook was developed in line  with the AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard. The Playbook is available internally and is  applicable to all our"
"operations and construction projects. It guides our country, local, and site-level  engagement plans and system, including:       Æ Defining the purpose, scope and understanding the context including vulnerable groups         Æ Identifying and prioritizing stakeholders     Æ Defining the appropriate engagement methodology and ensuring stakeholders have sufficient  capacity to participate    Æ Addressing stakeholder priorities and developing responsible and innovative responses         Æ"
"Understanding risks and opportunities         Æ Evaluating progress of engagement actions     Æ Implementing grievance mechanisms and communication channels In each of our operating markets, a Stakeholder Relations Manager leads engagement plans. At  the corporate level, our Chief Corporate Affairs and Impact Officer, oversees the implementation  of the Stakeholder Engagement Playbook, our external engagement and sustainability. Review  our Excel File (About AES - Stakeholder) for details on how"
"we engage with stakeholders.  Voluntary initiatives, forums     and associations AES voluntarily participates in organizations and initiatives at global, regional, national, and local levels.  These platforms offer frameworks for action and forums for the sharing of insights into emerging  expectations, issues, risks, and opportunities that help inform our global standards and best practices.  Below is a selection of industry associations, membership groups, and advocacy organizations  where we"
"held significant roles at the corporate level in 2024: Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Empowering our People Safety and Well-Being Stakeholder Engagement Partnering with Communities Suppliers Human Rights Planet Accountability About this Report  27 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION WEF 2024 The World Economic Forum’s Annual Meeting in Davos  welcomed governments and major international"
"organizations,  along with private companies, as well as civil society leaders  and experts. Our CEO and COO participated in high level  dialogue, sharing AES perspective on innovation, energy  security ad resilience systems. Their engagement contributed to  global conversations on energy priorities while also deepening  our understanding of evolving stakeholders' expectations. Learn more   CERAWeek At CERAWeek in Houston, the leading global energy  conference, AES engaged directly with"
"customers and  partners. Our leaders participated in discussions around  innovation and shaping the future of energy. We showcased  how we deliver tailored energy solutions to meet customer  evolving needs, strengthened relationships and gained  valuable feedback. Learn more   Americas Business Dialogue  At the Energy and Climate Partnership of the Americas  ministerial meeting, as Chair of the Energy Working Group of  the Americas Business Dialogue (business-led partnership  that fosters"
"public-private dialogues), we delivered insights  on behalf of the private sector around the importance of a  diversified energy mix, the incorporation of technologies and  the modernization of regulatory frameworks to advance in the  development of the sector in the region. Learn more   Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Empowering our People Safety and Well-Being Stakeholder Engagement Partnering with Communities Suppliers Human Rights Planet"
"Accountability About this Report  28 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION For AES, becoming the neighbor of choice means partnering with  communities, and establishing connections founded on trust. We  customize our Stakeholder Engagement strategy to address the  needs of local stakeholders throughout the lifecycle of the projects.  Before obtaining approval and commencing construction, we set out  to understand the demographics, culture,"
"history, economy, and other  essential attributes of the area of influence.  We also we identify the presence of Indigenous Peoples and areas  of tribal importance. For example, in the US we have developed a  Tribal Engagement Policy, and in Colombia we have guidelines for  Intercultural relations with Wayuu Indigenous People. Partnering with Communities We want to hear from all of our stakeholders -  questions, feedback and grievances As part of the project permitting processes, the initial"
"assessment  of the area of influence may evolve into a more detailed social  baseline assessment, if necessary. We also carry out social  impact assessments to evaluate how the project might impact the  local economy, social dynamics, and essential services. These  assessments serve as a foundation for developing a community  engagement strategy that encompasses communication plans, a  grievance mechanism, and a framework for meaningful consultation  with both informal and formal meetings."
"Transparency and early disclosure are essential, followed by informal  and formal consultation phases. These phases provide detailed  information about the project, its impacts, benefits, and mitigation  measures. This also offers communities the chance to express their  views on project risks and impacts, allowing us to consider and  respond to them.  During the construction phase, we maintain open lines and channels  of communication with communities and local authorities, focusing  on"
"informing them about the works, potential impacts, and developing  social impact programs. We often develop project websites to share  visual models, explain impacts, and encourage questions and feedback.  Throughout the project's operations and lifespan, we continue to  engage all relevant stakeholders and collaborate on community  impact programs that align with local community need and the  company strategy.  Community relations Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our"
"Business Strategy People Empowering our People Safety and Well-Being Stakeholder Engagement Partnering with Communities Suppliers Human Rights Planet Accountability About this Report  29 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Social impact In collaboration with community partners, including government  agencies, nonprofits, unions, and local organizations, we                    co-develop social impact programs that align with our strategy and"
"local priorities, aiming to provide long-lasting benefits and improve  strengthen communities for generations to come.  Internally, our Social Impact Framework directs the setting of program  objectives and the development of memorandums of understanding  (MOUs) with partners to share expectations and define the scope of  work, metrics, and monitoring process. Moreover, at an individual-level,  AES employees have the opportunity to participate in volunteer work  within their local communities"
"through the Global AES Volunteer Program.  Community resilience   and relief efforts  We work as one team with our people,  contractors, customers, and communities to  respond to natural disasters or catastrophes  in the communities. This includes making  resources available, volunteering, and  supporting front-line workers and organizations  before, during, and after an event.   Partnering for the  environment  We work with our partners to develop  programs focused on conservation,"
"restoration, and the creation of green  spaces, that enhance local environments  and provide lasting value for the  communities we serve.  Access to energy and  basic services    We partner for access to safe, efficient,  and affordable energy and basic services,  providing basic resources (such as tools  for public health) to the communities where     we work. Economic growth   We work with our partners to contribute to  the economic and social development in the  communities where we work. Our"
"programs  are focused on education and capacity  building while contributing to local economies  and preserving cultural traditions.  As we continue seeing the widespread impacts of natural disasters,  community resiliency and preparedness is critical. We take a two-fold  approach in our response by first addressing the short-term relief  efforts and then identifying opportunities for medium- and long-term  recovery with our community partners. We match employee donations  on a case-by-case"
"basis for initiatives that, among others, support  major disaster relief and long-term recovery efforts.  Our social initiatives and investments are centered around four key  pillars that reflect our purpose and values, and are guided by the  United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals:  Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Empowering our People Safety and Well-Being Stakeholder Engagement Partnering with Communities Suppliers Human Rights"
"Planet Accountability About this Report  30 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION 2024 performance  Access to energy and basic services   Over 50 initiatives  Access to energy is access to opportunity. For many  communities, something as simple as turning on a light can  mark the beginning of safer nights, healthier families, and  brighter futures. In collaboration with public, private, and  NGO partners, we have invested in essential"
"infrastructure  projects that strengthen ongoing community development.  Our rural electrification programs have improved quality of life  for thousands of families by extending access to education,  healthcare, and public safety. Since 2009, our Rural Energy  program in El Salvador has expanded electricity access to over  84,000 rural communities. In Panama, the program brought  electricity to multiple families benefiting 440 people in the     Colón Province.   During the year, our partnerships"
"also resulted in outcomes such  as the installation of a water supply system with solar pumping  and a reservoir holding 100,000 gallons of water for the Calabaza  community in the Dominican Republic. Additionally, a drinking  water distribution system was established for an indigenous  community in La Guajira, Colombia. Economic growth  over 240 initiatives  Every student is a potential innovator and future energy leader,  and in a rapidly evolving sector, early investment in their  development"
"is key to powering the future. At the kindergarten  through 12th grade level, AES supports students through  curriculum development partnerships, educational tours of our  sites, and capacity building workshops for science, technology,  engineering, and mathematics (STEM) educators. As part of the  STEM Careers Coalition—an alliance of industries and non-profit  organizations—over 10.7 million students have been reached  since 2019 through interactive learning experiences, digital  content, and"
"after-school activities, surpassing the coalition’s  collective goal in 2024. At the university level, AES partners  provide programmatic support for students as well as funding for  research opportunities.   We also contribute to local economic development by investing  in workforce training and entrepreneurship through partnerships  with local landowners, small business owners, labor unions,  technical training institutions, and community organizations. Our  AES Mujer program, launched in El"
"Salvador in 2013 to increase  employment opportunities for women in the energy sector, has  since grown to the Dominican Republic, Chile, Colombia, Puerto  Rico, and most recently, Panama. In 2024 alone, more than 550  women participated in our workforce development initiatives,  gaining the technical skills and knowledge to grow their own  businesses or pursue careers as electricians or line workers. In 2024, AES businesses engaged in over 500 community-oriented initiatives globally, including"
"long-term investments through our social impact  programs, sponsorships and charitable donations totaling more than $12.5 million (over $6 million to not-for-profit organizations). Around 1.9 million  people have access to these initiatives, both directly through active participation and indirectly through education campaigns and investments in  community infrastructure. Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Empowering our People Safety and Well-"
"Being Stakeholder Engagement Partnering with Communities Suppliers Human Rights Planet Accountability About this Report  31 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Environmental stewardship Over 40 initiatives  Local partnerships for the environment lead to stronger, more  vibrant communities. Our Coastal Enhancement Program in  Southern California promotes environmental restoration and  empowers communities to take part in their protection."
"Through  this initiative, AES is cultivating a culture of conservation among  youth and families around our operations in Southern California,  creating meaningful access to coastal wetlands and providing  hands-on environmental education in underserved communities.   In partnership with local organizations, we are fostering the  next generation of environmental leaders by offering workforce  development opportunities. In 2024, we expanded the scope of  our program to include an additional"
"wetland area, workforce  development for early career environmental conservation  professionals and engagement with indigenous groups. Since  2022, we have reached over 26,000 community members and  strengthened public-private conservation efforts of over 230  acres of coastal habitats alongside our program partners.  Community resilience and relief efforts  Over 150 initiatives  Moments of crisis can test a community, but it also brings out  its resilience. We work with communities to prepare,"
"respond  and recover from emergencies with dignity and strength. Since  2022, our partnership with GRID Alternatives has focused on  equipping underserved communities across the US with the  tools they need to withstand and recover from natural disasters  and power outages. In 2024, AES and our volunteers supported  the installation of a 30kWh battery energy storage system at  an affordable housing within a government-subsidized housing  community in Los Angeles. This hub now supports over 1,500"
"residents with device charging, medication refrigeration, and  essential services when the power goes out. In New Mexico, a  38kW solar system was installed to power a wellness center  serving a rural indigenous community of 900 people, supporting  ongoing access to health services and community care.   2024 performance  Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Empowering our People Safety and Well-Being Stakeholder Engagement Partnering with"
"Communities Suppliers Human Rights Planet Accountability About this Report  32 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Volunteering The Global AES Volunteer Program and its guidelines are designed to strengthen and elevate the  volunteer spirit of our people. By helping identify, report, and celebrate volunteer efforts, we are  encouraging our people to create positive impact in their communities. The program offers up to  16 hours of paid"
"volunteer time annually.   “Volunteering is a demonstration of our AES values and beliefs through action,  and for me, nothing is more powerful and resonating than being able to drive  transformative change for the well-being of the communities in which we live  and work. I find it highly rewarding to collaborate with my colleagues and feel that  together, we can truly make a positive and lasting impact.” Anne Le Volunteer from the Corporate Office “It's incredibly satisfying to work towards a"
"common goal and witness the positive  impact we can make together. These initiatives also give us a chance to combine  our diverse skills and experiences for a greater purpose, making the whole  experience both rewarding and enriching for all of us. Volunteer work embodies  the AES values by prioritizing safety, striving for excellence, and fostering a spirit  of collaboration. Through our dedication to these principles, we not only make a  positive impact on the community but also inspire"
"others to join us in creating a  safer, higher-standard, and more united world.”  Modesta Vasquez Volunteer from US Renewables During the year, our people volunteered more than 12,400 hours in 600 opportunities globally as  part of the Program.  #Volunteering across AES Read more  #Lending a hand for Shoes 4 the  Shoeless Read more  #STEM activities and native species Read more  #Day in the Parks Read more  #Celebrating Environment Day  Read more  #Restoration of local ecosystems Read more"
" 2024 performance  Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Empowering our People Safety and Well-Being Stakeholder Engagement Partnering with Communities Suppliers Human Rights Planet Accountability About this Report  33 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION 2024 performance  Suppliers Our more than 11,500+ suppliers play an important role in helping us deliver positive impact  on people and the"
"planet. We expect our business partners, suppliers and/or third-party  intermediaries that create products for or offer services for us to subscribe to and contribute  to these same set of standards and values, which are incorporated into AES’ Supplier Code of  Conduct.  Our Supplier’s Code of Conduct exists within a global environment with different legal and cultural  requirements around the world. Expanding supplier diversity within our supply base benefits the  local economies in which we"
"conduct business. It strengthens our capacity to create and deliver  goods and solutions globally while supporting our efforts to transform the way energy solutions  are created. In a similar vein, by working with a supplier base that is broad and varied, we seek to  encourage economic inclusion and job creation for underserved populations.  We take non-compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct seriously. In addition to any other  remedies available to AES, violations may result in immediate"
"contract termination and/or  exclusion from future business opportunities.  Transparency in setting expectations yields better results for all parties. AES provides additional  guidance for suppliers and contractors on our website, including our Procurement Handbook,  Contractor Safety Management Standard and other key aspects of how expect our suppliers to  behave and the performance we expect them to achieve. As described in our Ethics and Compliance section, we implement due diligence on"
"third parties  prior to engaging them. 11,500+ suppliers In 2024 more than 1,700+ suppliers participated in capacity building and awareness programs  about Compliance and Safety. See the Excel File (People- Suppliers) for more information on  how we engage with our suppliers. Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Empowering our People Safety and Well-Being Stakeholder Engagement Partnering with Communities Suppliers Human Rights Planet"
"Accountability About this Report  34 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Human rights Human rights Campaign   score in 2024 100 Our Human Rights Policy formalizes our long-standing commitment  to uphold and respect Human Rights across our people, communities  and suppliers. We support the Universal Declaration of Human  Rights and our Policy is consistent with the United Nations’ Guiding  Principles on Business and Human Rights. As a member"
"of the  American Clean Power Association, we have pledged to prevent  forced labor.  AES Colombia, AES México and AES Panamá are signatories  and have adopted the ten principles of the United Nations Global  Compact, which include key commitments to human rights, labor  standards, environmental protection, and anti-corruption efforts;  with a commitment to respecting and advancing human rights as an  aspect of our operations. Our businesses are also members of different organizations that"
"promote Human Rights, equity and inclusion, ethics and transparency.  For example, AES Colombia is also a member of the Collective Action  for Ethics in the Colombian Electricity Sector, an initiative created  to establish best practices around transparency and ethics in the  sector. AES Panamá is a member of UN Women; the Gender Parity  Initiative aimed at reducing gender economic gaps, and of Sumarse,  an organization driving Corporate Social Responsibility.  AES Colombia conducted training in"
"conflict resolution and Human Rights for their environmental and social  teams. The training provided tools to manage and address conflict situations in the territories where our  operations are located, covering topics such as peaceful conflict management and resolution, due diligence,  and the application of Human Rights in contexts of social conflict. Building Capacity for Human Rights and Conflict Resolution  Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy"
"People Empowering our People Safety and Well-Being Stakeholder Engagement Partnering with Communities Suppliers Human Rights Planet Accountability About this Report  35 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Planet Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report  36 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION"
"Environmental Management  System  Our Environmental Policy sets the principles and foundation of  our Environmental Management System (EMS). Our approach  to environmental stewardship is grounded in strong corporate  governance, led by the Governance Committee of our Board of  Directors. This committee monitors the environmental compliance  of AES businesses and is responsible for the periodic review  and oversight of the practices related to climate change.  We are  committed to responsible"
"environmental practices and adhere to the  laws and regulations of each country where we operate and, when  appropriate, international standards. The EMS – applicable to all our businesses – is based on the  principles of the ISO 14001 Standard, which specifies the  requirements for an environmental management system that an  organization can use to enhance its environmental performance.  The EMS standards cover topics such as general environmental  requirements and prohibitions, PCB"
"(polychlorinated biphenyl)  management, hazardous waste and chemicals management,  biodiversity protection, spill prevention and control, and contractor  environmental management. The standards were updated and  approved by the Vice President of EHS&S in 2023, and are part of the  Environmental Policy signed by the company’s CEO.  The Global Environmental Standard further establishes, among other  things, how each business is expected to define roles, responsibilities,  and authority to"
"effectively implement and maintain the EMS:           Æ Spill Prevention and Containment      Æ Waste         Æ Chemical and Raw Material Management          Æ PCB Management 5  Excludes renewable assets in United States, the majority of which (84% percent) are smaller than 20 MW.  6  Significance is determined by a threshold and this only refers to fines that were equal to or more than $10,000.  More details here and here.   Æ AES Compliance Data Quality Assurance and Reporting   Æ"
"Environmental Incident Management     Æ Hydroelectric Power Plant and Reservoir Requirements          Æ Environmentally Related Financial Disclosure          Æ Contractor Environmental Risk Management Standard     Æ Managing Potential Contractor Environmental Impacts   Æ General Environmental Requirements    Æ Biodiversity Assessment and Protection        Æ Internal EHS Audit Standard   Æ External EHS Audit Standard Environmental impacts must be identified and assessed in  accordance with the"
"EMS Risk Assessment methodology. An action  plan should be created to address significant environmental aspects,  associated risks and opportunities, and compliance obligations. This  assessment must be updated biennially or when major changes occur.  The Renewable Energy Construction Projects Environmental, Health,  Safety, and Security Plans outline expectations for the construction  phase, including the required measures for contractors.  Compliance with these standards is monitored through"
"both internal  and external audits. Construction sites undergo annual audits, while  operating businesses are audited every three years. For each audit  finding, a corrective action plan is formulated, and the overall audit  performance is regularly reported to executive leadership.  Throughout the year, we identify and monitor compliance  conditions and events that could result in non-conformances and  financial impacts on the business. Our AES Environmental Incident  Management Standard"
"requires each business to establish a process  for identification, investigation and reporting of environmental  nonconformance events.  As of December 31, 2024, approximately 63 percent of AES people  and contractors5 worked at locations that have voluntarily certified their  EMS to the ISO 14001 Standard (51 percent of AES locations). These  businesses require follow up audits to be conducted by international  Certification Agencies, such as Bureau Veritas, Aenor or SGS, among  others.  In"
"2024, none of the businesses we operate paid significant fines  or penalties related to environmental matters from 2023 or 2024,  including those involving water or ecological issues. However certain  matters related to 2022 issues were settled in 2024.6 Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Environmental Management System Our Ambitions Emissions Biodiversity Water Waste Accountability About this Report  37 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024"
"SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Our Ambitions Based on the same assumptions, we also expect to reduce the following sources of air emissions and  non-hazardous waste (versus a 2016 baseline) by 2030:7 Sulphur dioxide (SO2) ~63 percent reduction (expected intensity reduction   of ~83 percent) Particulate matter (PM) ~56 percent reduction (expected intensity reduction   of ~80 percent) Nitrogen oxides (NOx) ~48 percent reduction (expected intensity reduction   of ~77"
"percent) Mercury (Hg) ~25 percent  (expected intensity reduction   of ~66 percent) Non-hazardous waste  (CCRs)9:   ~48 percent by 2030 (expected intensity reduction of ~77  percent) 2030 Generation portfolio  carbon intensity in line  with a well-below 2ºC  scenario 2040 Net-zero carbon  emissions from  electricity sales 2050 Net zero carbon  emissions for entire  business portfolio7-8 7  Based on renewables growth and the feasibility of multiple possible asset scenarios. 8  Actions assume new"
"policies that facilitate transition to low emissions energy systems, such as a price on carbon. Includes scope 1 and 2 emissions for 2040 and Scope 3 for 2050. 9  The largest component of our non-hazardous waste is coal combustion residuals (CCRs)  AES supports the objectives of the Paris Agreement to limit the average rise in global  temperatures to well below 2°C above preindustrial levels and to pursue efforts to limit it to 1.5°C.   We were the first publicly traded US utility and power"
"company to publish a Climate Scenario  Report aligned with TCFD recommendations in 2018, followed by an expanded analysis in 2021.   An updated report is expected to be released in 2025.  In 2021 we set ambitions based on our plan to transition out of coal, the expected renewable  growth of our portfolio, and the feasibility of multiple possible asset scenarios, which we expect to  review during 2025. As we execute on our intention to exit our coal businesses, we are committed  to ensuring grid"
"stability and achieving a responsible energy transition. Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Environmental Management System Our Ambitions Emissions Biodiversity Water Waste Accountability About this Report  38 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Emissions 2024 vs 2023  ~17 percent less Scope 1 emissions ~14 percent less NOx ~25 percent more solar and wind generation ~29 percent less"
"Sox ~8 percent reduced carbon intensity ~20 percent less PM We were successful in 2024 in advancing our portfolio and emissions targets. We completed the construction or acquisition of  3 GW of new renewable energy and exited or announced the sale or closure of 1 GW of coal generation in the US and Chile. We  also continued to lower our Scope 1 emissions and improved our carbon intensity. As a result, in 2024 our coal-fired generation  decreased to represent less than 30 percent of the total"
"electricity produced, while wind and solar generation increased by more  than 25 percent.  2 coal power plants retired allowed the reduction of10:  ~2 .1 million metric tons   of CO2 1,900 metric tons of   nitrous oxides (NOx) ~2 ,000 metric tons of  sulfur dioxide (SO2) Equivalent to GHG emissions from +620,000 gasoline-powered passenger vehicles driven  for one year11  10 Equity-adjusted values calculated considering the average emissions of the last 3 years (2021-2023). 11 Estimated using the"
"EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator.  2024 performance  Combustion of fuels to generate electricity results in the release  of both conventional and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Many  factors influence emissions, including generation diversity and  efficiency, demand for electricity, weather, fuel availability and prices,  and emission controls deployed. Air control system technologies and management at our plants  are primarily dictated by locally applicable environmental laws  and"
"regulations. When considering mitigation technologies, our  power plants can have pulse air fabric filter systems, electrostatic  precipitators, flue gas desulfurization systems, selective catalytic  and non-catalytic reduction systems, SO2 scrubbers, and low NOx  burners. Air emissions are tracked using continuous emission  monitoring systems (CEMS) and/ or operational parameters (e.g.,  fuel use and appropriate emission factors). In addition to power  generation, the use of light and heavy-"
"duty vehicle fleets, as well as  other equipment, represents another source of direct emissions which  our businesses monitor.  Our air emissions include Direct GHG Emissions; direct SO2, NOx, PM  and Hg, and indirect GHG Emissions including Scope 2 and Scope 3  (categories 1, 3, 6, 7, 11).  Our businesses are continuously looking for ways to improve power  generation efficiency and reduce emissions. In 2024, AES operating  businesses implemented emission reduction initiatives, including  energy"
"efficiency programs and fleet transitions to electric vehicles.  Combined with the retirement of coal plants, these efforts resulted in  an estimated reduction of over 2 million metric tonnes (MT) of annual  carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. Also, energy management programs  are in place in many of our assets, including energy audits, actions  to reduce the amount of energy use, investments in innovation or  R&D and energy efficiency training provided to employees to raise  awareness. Our Scope 1"
"and other air emissions continue to decrease, as we  are taking actions to transform our own portfolio to reduce carbon  emissions, such as retiring two coal power plants in 2024, while  working to develop new solutions that are designed to enable our  customers to reduce their reliance on fossil fuels. Our measurement  methodologies and scope as well as our detailed performance for our  air emissions are detailed in our 2024 Excel file (Planet – Emissions).  Table of Contents CEO Letter"
"Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Environmental Management System Our Ambitions Emissions Biodiversity Water Waste Accountability About this Report  39 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Biodiversity Our Biodiversity Assessment and Protection Standard is part of our EMS. Updated in 2023,  it establishes a minimum standard for assessing potential positive and negative impacts to  biodiversity, and promotes the"
"incorporation of best management practices throughout planning,  construction, and operation/maintenance. AES businesses must identify and comply with all applicable legal and compliance obligations  relating to Biodiversity. This includes, but is not limited to, identification of protected species, their  habitats, and local regulatory requirements pertaining to them.   All projects follow the mitigation hierarchy approach, which includes steps to avoid, minimize,  mitigate, and offset impacts."
"Management plans are developed in accordance with the mitigation  hierarchy criteria as needed.  When possible, the environmental impact assessment (which includes biodiversity considerations)  is made publicly available on third-party websites, typically those of regulatory agencies. Links to  Environmental Impact Assessments of projects currently under construction are available in the Excel  file (Planet – Site management). Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business"
"Strategy People Planet Environmental Management System Our Ambitions Emissions Biodiversity Water Waste Accountability About this Report  40 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION We have more than 95 operational sites12, covering more than 76,500 hectares. In addition to any impact assessments that may have been carried out during the development and construction  of a site, we have conducted biodiversity impact assessments in more than 60"
"sites (representing over 98 percent of our total area). Of such sites, more than 25 are in close proximity to critical  biodiversity and more than 15 have biodiversity management plans in place.  With the execution of the management plans, some sites aim to have no net deforestation. Through 2024 we have reforested more than 300 hectares out of a total of 500 hectares to be reforested  by 2028 which is when the last reforestation commitment is anticipated to be fulfilled. Compared to 2023, these"
"figures are significantly lower due to the sale of our Brazil business, which held the  largest share of our reforestation commitments. Dual Use Innovation We are partnering with universities and research centers  across the US to fully realize the synergies of solar and  agricultural activities (agrivoltaics or AgPV). By integrating  crop cultivation or livestock grazing beneath and around  solar panel arrays, agrivoltaics projects promote more  efficient land use while maintaining energy"
"operations. These initiatives create added value for local economies  by supporting sustainable agriculture, generating new  income streams for farmers and landowners, and  fostering rural economic development. Currently, we have more than 12,000 acres under active  sheep grazing at more than 55 projects across the US,  Colombia and Puerto Rico, demonstrating how renewable  energy infrastructure can coexist with and enhance  agricultural productivity. Urban Arboriculture Urban arboriculture"
"contributes to city planning by  focusing on the selection and planting of tree species  that complement the built environment and support  sustainable development. Since 2016, as part of AES El Salvador’s initiatives  for management of trees in cities, we offer urban  arboriculture seminars with the objective of providing  knowledge that contributes to turning cities into spaces  with more harmony between vegetation and electrical  infrastructure. To date, more than 630 people from 149"
"environmental institutions, municipalities, construction  companies, and other entities have been trained. Protecting Native Species  Coastal ecosystems, such as mangroves, are important in  supporting biodiversity. Empowering local environmental  stewards is one of the ways we help strengthen coastal  restoration efforts near our operations. In Panama, with  the Mangrove Defenders program, we educate youth  about conservation and the importance of nature-based  solutions. The program is"
"developed in partnership with  Wetlands International and has allowed the reforestation  of more than 5.5 hectares of mangroves in the Province of  Colón. AES volunteers and community members continue  to support ongoing efforts to expand mangrove forests in  partnership with Fundación Verde Profundo. This initiative  is helping to strengthen local biodiversity in Boca Chica, a  5.2 hectare marine area south of Santo Domingo. 2024 performance  12  We are excluding renewable assets in United"
"States, the majority of which (84% percent) are smaller than 20 MW. Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Environmental Management System Our Ambitions Emissions Biodiversity Water Waste Accountability About this Report  41 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION In 2024, we advanced our water stewardship efforts and made progress in improving our  performance. Both our water withdrawal and"
"discharges decreased by more than 35 percent  compared to 2023, due to assets shutdowns and less generation from large plants. Our total water  consumption continues to decrease.   In Colombia, through the Efficient Use and Saving Program, the domestic water consumption in our  hydro facilities has been reduced by 42 percent compared to 2010.  See the Excel file (Planet – Water) file for detailed data around water use, recycle and exposure to  areas with water stress.  2024 performance  Water At"
"AES, we recognize that water stewardship is essential for our operations and the livelihoods of the  communities we serve. For our generation businesses, whether thermal or hydro, water availability  is important not only to operate, but also to operate efficiently. At our thermal plants, water is  predominantly used for the steam cooling process where >95 percent is returned to the body of water,  with the rest evaporating.  For our renewables businesses, like solar and wind, water is not used"
"as a source for generation and  minimal quantities are required. For our hydroelectric power plants, water only passes through the  water-driven power turbines, then it is immediately returned to the environment. During operation, we monitor the quality of water discharges, and we are regularly supervised by  environmental authorities. Controls may also include monitoring of upstream and downstream areas  from our water discharge, and groundwater around our ash ponds. Also, as part of the EMS,"
"AES  businesses consider water use for potential impacts and mitigation when conducting periodical  environmental risk assessments. Water efficiency management programs are in place in many of our assets, these programs may include  water use assessment to identify opportunities for water efficiency improvements, actions to reduce  water consumption or application of water recycling and awareness training provided to our people. We use the World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct Global Water"
"Tool to identify assets in water  stressed areas. As we develop new projects, water is a key part of our environmental risk and       impact assessments.  As we phase out our coal generation portfolio, we expect a material reduction in our water use. We  work to lower water consumption and withdrawals of freshwater in arid areas. This work involves  improving processes in cooling towers by monitoring water levels, installation of flow meters and routine  maintenance of air handler coils. In a"
"number of plants, we use air cooled heat exchangers instead of  water cooled to reduce water use. Where possible, we recycle or reuse water, as well as use third-party  recycled water, or implement water efficiency programs. As part of the risk management process related to water, AES has a Weather Risk Committee  that monitors and determines best practices around hydrology risk in our portfolio, working with  Commercial, Operational and Meteorological expert counterparts. The committee works to"
"identify  new opportunities to improve AES’ development efforts and reports advises the organization on the  forecasted risk associated with weather. The Risk Management team submits a report to the Board of  Directors at regularly scheduled meetings. See Risk Management for more information. Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Environmental Management System Our Ambitions Emissions Biodiversity Water Waste Accountability About this Report"
"42 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Waste As part of the EMS, we have a Waste Management Standard that sets forth our essential  guidelines for handling hazardous and special waste, managing chemicals and raw materials,  and preventing and controlling spills. We evaluate potential hazards and implement management  strategies, including preventive and control measures.  Our physical disposal of non-hazardous waste is protective of the"
"environment and in compliance  with local regulations and permits. When necessary, we collaborate with specialized, pre-approved  companies holding waste management licenses for the transportation and disposal of materials  and hire third parties to conduct assurance on their licenses and authorizations.  We have in place waste management programs. These programs include, depending on the asset,  action plans to reduce waste generation, waste reduction training or awareness provided to"
"employees or integration of recycling programs to reduce the waste sent to landfill.  Recycling and waste  reduction We prioritize recycling whenever possible. At our sites, we segregate plastic, aluminum, paper,  wood, and scrap metal where possible. Many facilities participate in recycling programs to benefit  local communities. We also seek to reduce solid waste such as avoiding the use of plastic by using  reusable plates and cutlery in dining rooms or providing reusable bags and coffee"
"cups.  Coal Combustion Residuals (CCRs) serve as a valuable component in various concrete products  and as a structural fill material, replacing soil or other substances. Gypsum, an air emissions control  process byproduct, when recycled, can be used in wallboards for the construction industry, as a  raw material in the production of cement, or for use as a soil stabilizer in agriculture. At some of our  assets we work with third parties to recycle CCRs, which make up nearly 99 percent of our"
"non- hazardous waste.  We have a US Renewables' Construction Waste Program for solar modules that, beyond recycling,  also allows us to assess construction breakage and end-of-life solar panel waste. Through an  agreement with SOLARCYCLE, we send damaged or retired solar panels to SOLARCYCLE’s  advanced recycling facility in Odessa, Texas, where they are responsibly recycled and repurposed.  By reducing waste and supporting domestic clean energy supply chains, we’re strengthening our  commitment"
"to the future of energy while creating American jobs.   13  Estimated using the EPA Greenhouse Gas Equivalencies Calculator.  2024 performance  Since 2021, in the La Guajira region, AES Colombia has partnered with organizations to handle  the recycling and subsequent reintegration into production cycles of plastic bottles. To date, the  equivalent of more than 16,000 plastic bottles have been provided to the local partner.   As we continue to reduce the coal generation from our portfolio, we are"
"also reducing the amount  of CCRs produced, approximately 15 percent less compared with 2023. The recycling of our non- hazardous waste increased approximately 14 percent compared to 2023.   Through our partnership with SOLARCYCLE more than 12,500 panels were recycled to be brought  back into the domestic supply chain. By diverting these panels from the landfill we have avoided the  equivalent of over 400 metric tons of carbon dioxide-equivalent emissions, comparable to 1 million  miles driven"
"by an average gasoline-powered car13.  See the Excel file (Planet – Waste) file for detailed data around waste. Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Environmental Management System Our Ambitions Emissions Biodiversity Water Waste Accountability About this Report  43 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Accountability Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business"
"Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report  44 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION 2024 Board Strong corporate governance is fundamental to our success.  Grounded by our core value of Highest Standards, we remain deeply  committed to ethics, integrity, and compliance.  The AES Corporation is led and managed by our Chief Executive  Officer and the company´s Executive Officers with the guidance and  oversight from our Board of"
"Directors (the Board).  In 2024, the Board maintained four standing Committees:  Compensation, Financial Audit, Innovation and Technology, and  Governance. The charter of the Governance Committee includes  oversight of matters related to environmental and safety programs  as well as compliance. The Audit, Governance, and Compensation  Committees  comprise solely independent Directors, each with a  different independent Director serving as Chairman of the Committee.  Our Corporate Governance"
"Policies reflect best practices:           Æ Annual Election of all Directors      Æ Non-Executive, Independent Chair of the Board since 2003      Æ Annual Board and Committee self-evaluations and review of  Director qualifications    Æ Limits on Director tenure     Æ 96 percent average attendance at Board of Directors and  Committee meetings           Æ Director compensation reviewed annually  See our 2025 Proxy Statement for more information about our  corporate governance, including our Board"
"committees and structure,  Director characteristics and biographies, director and executive  compensation, audit matters and stock ownership, among other  topics. Our webpage also includes references to other related  governance documents such as the Certificate of Incorporation,  Bylaws, Corporate Governance Guidelines as well as the Board’s  Committee Charters.  The Board also provides oversight of the risk management practices  implemented by management. Characteristics of our Directors as"
"presented in our Proxy statement in March 2025:  Gender diversity 45% Racial/ethnic diversity 36% Average age 68 Independence 91% Average tenure 7.5 years In early 2025, the Compensation Committee approved, and recommended to the Board of Directors to approve,  the annual incentive payouts for 2024, which is aligned to our corporate strategy and priorities. Our Sustainability  priorities – portfolio transformation and Safety – are 45 percent of the incentive structure with a 10 percent"
"weighting tied to safety and 35 percent tied to achievement of growth in renewable energy generation and new  business models. Our Proxy Statement includes detailed information on our Compensation practices.   Board of Directors Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability Board of directors Ethics and Compliance Anti-Harassment and                        Anti-Discrimination Cybersecurity Risk Management About this Report  45"
"IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Our commitment to ethics and integrity is reflected in our Code of  Conduct, Ethics and Compliance Program, and company-wide policies  and standards —all of which provide a clear foundation for how  we engage with our employees, partners, suppliers, and the many  communities and environments in which we operate.  The AES Ethics and Compliance Program, which defines our business  practices and corporate"
"expectations worldwide, is led by our Chief  Ethics and Compliance Officer (CECO), who is appointed by the AES  Board of Directors, reports directly to the Audit Committee, and is a  member of senior management. The CECO regularly provides reports  and updates on Ethics and Compliance issues to the Audit Committee  and our external auditors. The Financial Audit Committee oversees the  effectiveness of the Company’s Ethics and Compliance Program.   The Ethics and Compliance Program is"
"administered by approximately  20 department representatives who report to the CECO and are  located at our headquarters and throughout our global business  locations. We conduct regular training for our employees (both full  and part-time) on a variety of related ethics and compliance topics  and policies, including our Code of Conduct and corporate values,  compliance with anti-corruption and other applicable laws, conflicts  of interest, gifts and entertainment, and workplace harassment,"
"among others.   We require contractors, based on risk profile (such as type of supplier  or location of operation), to participate in compliance training.   We conduct regular internal and external assessments of our Ethics  and Compliance Program, identifying and mitigating emerging risks  as our business evolves. In collaboration with our Internal Audit  Department, we conduct multiple anti-corruption audits each year.   Our Code of Conduct is enhanced by global and local policies  tailored to"
"local risks and regulations. Some of our policies include  anti-corruption, conflicts of interest, charitable contributions and  political donations, data privacy, lobbying, workplace harassment,  whistleblower and non-retaliation, cybersecurity and responsible  AI, among others. Our policies are user-friendly, easy to understand       and find:          Æ Include frequently asked question sections and supplemental  guidance to address common situations    Æ Some are available externally, but"
"all are available on local  intranets, in policy libraries, and on internal document sharing  systems, translated into local languages. New policies are  distributed by e-mail from Leaders and through coordinated  messaging campaigns          Æ The policies apply to all AES people worldwide. In addition,  temporary workers, contractors, consultants, agents,  representatives, and all others who perform AES work are required  to ensure that their actions on behalf of AES meet the same high"
"standards of integrity expected of AES people  Our Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policy encourage  internal and external stakeholders to bring matters of concern to  the company’s attention for prompt resolution. AES’ Whistleblower  Policy sets procedures for the treatment of complaints, including  strictly prohibited retaliation against employees who report ethics and  compliance concerns in good faith.   The AES Helpline is a publicly and permanently available global  confidential"
"channel in every AES language, managed by a third party  to ensure confidentiality. Contacts to the AES Helpline may be made  anonymously. The Helpline can be used by AES people or any of the  company’s stakeholders. Through different communication channels and regular Ethics and  Compliance messages and guidance, our people are reminded that  they can ask questions about our Values Guide or Company policies,  or raise concerns about potentially illegal or unethical business  conduct, by"
"contacting their manager, another AES leader, an Ethics  and Compliance Department representative, AES legal counsel, or  using the Helpline.   The Ethics and Compliance Department investigates all allegations and  responds to all questions, collaborating with management regarding  disciplinary and remedial actions to ensure consistency with AES  Values, policy, law, and regulation. Disciplinary measures and corrective  action will depend on the specific circumstances of the violation.  Actions"
"contrary to law, our Values, our AES Code of Conduct, or  other corporate policies will be grounds for disciplinary action, up to  and including termination, subject to local law and the terms of any  applicable collective bargaining agreement. Failure to report improper  behavior, knowingly making a false report, or refusing to cooperate  with an investigation may also be grounds for disciplinary action. AES Helpline groups allegations of suspected wrongdoing into six  main categories:  Each"
"investigation is documented and reported to AES’ independent  auditor, who selects a subset for ongoing monitoring until the case is  closed. The Helpline investigation data enables the identification of  trends to proactively mitigate risks.   AES engages in the political process and believes good government  policy benefits all AES stakeholders including our people, customers  and shareholders. We participate in the public policy process in  the US in a variety of ways including corporate"
"government affairs  programs designed to educate and inform elected officials on key  public policy issues related to the company’s business.       Æ Interactions with third party  business partners      Æ Company property and  assets          Æ Financial reporting and  controls     Æ Interactions with government  officials       Æ Human resources and AES  personnel issues     Æ Safety and environment AES helpline Ethics and Compliance Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our"
"Business Strategy People Planet Accountability Board of directors Ethics and Compliance Anti-Harassment and                        Anti-Discrimination Cybersecurity Risk Management About this Report  46 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Along with our Code of Conduct, we have an Anti-Harassment  Policy that clearly states that we do not tolerate discrimination,  harassment or mistreatment of any individual in the AES work  environment."
"The policy strictly prohibits harassment on the  basis of sex, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity and/ or expression or other types of workplace harassment on the  basis of, race, national origin, ethnicity, age, religion, marital  status, physical or mental disability, pregnancy, childbirth, or  related medical condition, military or veteran status, or any other  characteristic protected under applicable law.   This policy is introduced as part of the new employee onboarding.  Our"
"people are required to complete digital training courses  on Managing Bias, Compliance and AES Code of Conduct, and  on Harassment and Discrimination Prevention. Complaints of  harassment are taken seriously and are investigated promptly  with appropriate actions taken to remedy violations of this Policy,  which may include termination of employment.  2024 performance  We updated our Code of Conduct to provide additional guidance on several important  topics including antiretaliation, artificial"
"intelligence and political activities. More than  7,300 people completed a training on our Code of Conduct. Also, more than 2,100  people participated in the training about Preventing Harassment and Discrimination  including more than 700 leaders. The AES Helpline received 326 reports from AES  locations worldwide, of which: 73%  percent were  allegations of  suspected wrongdoing 27% percent were  requests for guidance  or information Approximately 36 percent of allegations reported and closed"
"in 2024 were found  to be substantiated in full or in part. For the sustained allegations, the Ethics and  Compliance Department worked with relevant business areas and defined appropriate  remedial action to resolve existing issues, fix past issues when appropriate, and  avoid recurrence of the same or similar issues in the future. We had zero corruption  breaches in 2024 and none of our people was disciplined or dismissed due to non- compliance with anti-corruption policy/policies.  Summa"
"magazine highlighted  Abraham Bichara, President of AES  El Salvador, and Miguel Bolinaga,  President of AES Panama, as  two of the top 100 executives in  Central America with the highest  professional ethics.  Learn more   AES Mexico was recognized for  the fourth consecutive year as  one of the +Ethical Companies by  AMITAI. This ranking identifies and  recognizes companies in Mexico  that promote ethical practices and  integrity in their operations.  AES was recognized by Ethisphere  as one"
"of the World's Most Ethical  Companies for the eleventh year in  a row. This recognition celebrates  companies that lead with integrity,  and places AES among an elite  group of only eight honorees in the  energy sector worldwide.  Learn more   During the year we were recognized across our portfolio for our ethics:  Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability Board of directors Ethics and Compliance Anti-Harassment and"
"Anti-Discrimination Cybersecurity Risk Management About this Report Anti-Harassment and                 Anti-Discrimination   47 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION 2024 performance  More than 9,000 people received on average 60 phishing  training emails during the year, with a fail rate below 2 percent.  More than 1,200 different types of phishing training emails  were sent to create awareness and educate our people.  Our integrated"
"identity security solution was recognized at the  2024 CSO Awards as a security initiative that demonstrates  outstanding business value and thought leadership.  Cybersecurity  We recognize the critical importance of maintaining the safety and  security of our people, systems, and data. We have a holistic process,  supported by our management and Board of Directors, for overseeing  and managing cybersecurity and related risks.   The Board of Directors is responsible for periodic review and"
"oversight of the AES’ risk management and strategy related to its  cybersecurity programs, policies, and practices, including review  of the state of the Company’s cybersecurity programs, emerging  cybersecurity developments and threats, and the Company’s strategy  to mitigate cybersecurity risks.   The Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) is the head of  Cybersecurity and responsible for assessing and managing our  cyber risk management program, conducting employee security  awareness"
"training, developing secure business and communication  practices, identifying security objectives and metrics, choosing and  purchasing security products from vendors, as well as corresponding   management actions. The CISO manages a global team of  cybersecurity professionals with broad experience and expertise,  including in cybersecurity threat assessments and detection, cloud  security, mitigation technologies, cybersecurity training, incident  response, cyber forensics, insider threats and"
"regulatory compliance.  We rely on threat intelligence as well as other information obtained  from governmental, public, or private sources, including contracted  external consultants.   Our Privacy Policy describes how AES and its affiliates and  subsidiaries collect, use, share, and otherwise process personal data  that identifies our customers, prospects, distributors, vendors, end  users, and suppliers that we collect through our websites, mobile  applications, business operations, and"
"services. Our Privacy Policy  undergoes regular internal audits. Additionally, as custodians of  customer data regulated by the State Utility Commission, we are  subject to third-party reviews.   We have implemented measures to help prevent unauthorized access  to our systems and facilities, including certain measures to comply  with mandatory regulatory reliability standards. To date, cyber- attacks have not had a material impact on our operations or financial  results. We continuously assess"
"potential threats and vulnerabilities  across our operations and invest in technologies and processes to  address them. These efforts include global monitoring of networks  and systems, identifying and implementing new technology, improving  user awareness through employee security training, and updating our  security policies as well as those for third-party providers.   During the year, on a continuous basis, we provide awareness training  to our employees to help identify, avoid, and mitigate"
"cybersecurity  threats. Our employees participate in training, including phishing  exercises, monthly safety meetings, and an annual cybersecurity  awareness update. We also periodically host tabletop exercises with  management and other employees to practice rapid cyber incident  response. Additional details about our Cybersecurity management  approach can we found in our 2024 Annual Report. Cybersecurity is fully integrated into our enterprise risk management  process, with structured"
"reporting protocols. We consider  cybersecurity as part of the enterprise risk process, including  organized and structured reporting protocols. We have also  established an Incident Response Team and Threat Management and  Incident Response Standard that governs our assessment, response,  and notifications internally and externally upon the occurrence of a  cybersecurity incident.   Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability Board"
"of directors Ethics and Compliance Anti-Harassment and                        Anti-Discrimination Cybersecurity Risk Management About this Report  48 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Edison Electric Institute (EEI) Emergency Response Award Presented to EEI member companies, AES Ohio received the  Emergency Response Award, a recognition to recovery and  assistance efforts of electric companies following service  disruptions caused by"
"extreme weather or other natural  events. AES Ohio efficiently restored power after two severe  storms systems and five tornadoes that caused extensive  damage to electrical infrastructure to more than six counties      in Ohio. Learn more   Risk Management  Leaders are responsible for the management and assessment of risk  at the Company, including communication of the most material risks  to the Board and its Committees. The Board provides oversight over  the risk management practices"
"implemented by Management, except  for the oversight of risks that have been specifically delegated to a  Committee of the Board. If the oversight of a specific area of risk has  been delegated to a Committee, the full Board receives reports from  the Committee Chairs at each regularly scheduled full Board meeting,  to the extent that all Directors have not participated in discussion of  that matter at the committee level.   The Board also receives a report at regularly scheduled meetings and"
"at least once a year a presentation from the Chief Risk Officer (CRO),  who is the head of AES’ Global Risk Management Group (GRM).  Through these materials, the Board is educated on the current state  of AES risks while also learning new risk metrics and techniques.  Additional details on the role of the Board in Risk Management can be  found in the Proxy Statement.   The CRO chairs the Risk Oversight Committee (ROC), which  oversees diverse aspects of the Company’s strategy and business  and"
"is comprised of the Company’s Chief Financial Officer (CFO),  Chief Operating Officer, CRO and the Presidents of the Renewables,  Energy Infrastructure and New Energy Technologies Strategic  Business Units. The risk management functions are part of the  finance organization reporting to the CFO, and are independent from  the operations and business lines.   See the 2024 Annual Report for a discussion of risk factors related to  AES’ operations, governmental regulation and laws, indebtedness and"
"financial condition. AES businesses face possible risks and scenarios that can operations  and can impact the service we provide. Safe, fast and effective power  restoration following emergency events is essential to the reliability of  electric power generation and distribution systems and the well-being  of the services and people that depend on these systems. As provider of essential services, our businesses have diverse  programs in place to ensure our operations are prepared to manage"
"unplanned disruptions. Our management approach includes a set  of emergency preparedness standards describing requirements for  the development, review and implementation of Business Continuity  Plans (BCP). These plans also consider local regulations and include  preparedness for: operational emergencies; off-site emergencies  that will have a significant impact on operations or staff; physical  security measures, including evacuation of our employees in case of  unrest; and emergencies"
"involving nature, e.g., severe weather, floods,  earthquakes, tsunamis, etc. Our Safety Management System and the Global Safety Standard  on Emergency Preparedness describes minimum requirements for  emergency preparedness plans that address the risk associated with  operational activities, man-made emergencies, natural disasters and  anticipated industry hazards.  Stakeholder collaboration and engagement are also an important  part of our program. Our procedures include clear and frequent"
"communications and collaboration with customers, neighboring  communities, the media, contractors and government officials. To  create awareness with key stakeholders, businesses also can share  information with surrounding communities about safety and how  to act during an emergency, bad weather conditions, or spill overs,  among others. Disaster/Emergency  planning and response  Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability Board of"
"directors Ethics and Compliance Anti-Harassment and                        Anti-Discrimination Cybersecurity Risk Management About this Report  49 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION About this Report Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report  50 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION This 2024 Improving"
"Lives Report, together with its downloadable Excel file, represents our 2024  Sustainability Report and covers our activities and businesses where AES has operational control  from January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024, unless otherwise stated. The report is published on an  annual basis.   We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether  as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. If one or more forward-looking  statements are"
"updated, no inference should be drawn that additional updates will be made with  respect to those or other forward-looking statements.  The Excel file includes an index of how our 2024 reporting aligns to the Global Reporting Initiative  (GRI) and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB).   In certain specific indicators there have been updates in the information due to recalculations or  methodology adjustments. Those cases are indicated with a footnote in the Excel file.   AES has"
"used the services of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Inc. (LRQA) to verify and  conduct an independent and limited assurance of the following data: Greenhouse gases Scopes  1, 2 and 3, other Air Emissions, Water withdrawal and discharge, Hazardous and Non-Hazardous  Waste generation, Ash and Gypsum generation and recycling from coal combustion, Electricity  Generation, Energy Use, Lost Time Incidents (LTI) incidents and fatality rate.   The Sustainability Report 2024 was prepared with"
"reference to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI  Standards) with the inclusion of the GRI Universal Standards 2021 and the GRI Topic Standards  2021, and also considering the Electric Utilities Disclosure supplement dedicated to the sector  issued in 2013, also by GRI.  Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report Our Priority Assessment GRI Index SASB Index Assurance Statement Forward-looking"
"statements / disclaimer  51 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Our Priority Assessment Topic prioritization matrix Our priority assessment is reviewed every year, and a reassessment  is conducted every 3 years (or earlier if deemed necessary after the  annual review). In 2023, with the support of an external consultant,  we refreshed our priority assessment to identify the range of  environmental, social, governance topics and business"
"drivers most  important to the success of the business.   We started by reviewing our external context for which we considered  external stakeholder perspectives, benchmarked ourselves against  peer companies, and analyzed international standards, regulations  and reporting frameworks to understand stakeholder expectations  High Low Medium Climate change Community engagement Safety   GHG Emissions Our people   Talent Mgmt./Learning & development   Inclusion & diversity   Living wage Product"
"quality/Reliability Human rights Customer centricity General disclosure Data security/Cybersecurity Energy consumption Circularity Environmental management   Wast management   Water   Biodiversity   Other air emissions Political contributions Heath & well being Chemical management Executive compensation Impact on AES’ business16 Importance to Stakeholders13 People Ethics & accountability   Board of Directors   Risk management   Governance practices Innovation for sustainability"
"Sustainable supply chain Planet Accountability of our business. We continued with an identification of internal  perspectives through AES reports, previous priority assessment  documentation, publications, surveys, etc. By having an external and  internal approach we ensured the creation of a list of topics that  leveraged the latest thought leadership and incorporated new topics  that are shaping the industry through a wide stakeholder lens.   The list of initial priority topics was then"
"validated using over 25  leadership interviews. Executives across different functions –  both at corporate and local levels – were interviewed to gather  feedback around: the list of topics identified as priorities, the relative  importance of these topics to stakeholders and business and  thoughts on the topics and their implications for AES.   Interviews provided unique inputs and perspectives to yield a  numerical weighting that fed into the final output. Our assessment  followed the GRI’s"
"guidance for determining relevant topics and  includes the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)  topics for our sector.  Topics below are platted for illustrative separation, not intended to  directly corelate to X & Y coordinates. Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report Our Priority Assessment GRI Index SASB Index Assurance Statement Forward-looking                       statements / disclaimer  52"
"IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION GRI Index GRI code GRI Indicator Source Page/ Table GRI 2 - General Disclosures 2-1  Organizational details 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 7  2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 50 2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 50 2-4 Restatements of information 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 50 2-5"
"External assurance 2024 Improving Lives Report Pages 56-58 Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Assurance Statement 2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Suppliers - Table 1 2-7  Employees Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Our People - Table 2 and Table 3 2-8 Workers who are not employees Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Our People - Table 1 2-9 Governance structure and composition 2025"
"Proxy Statement  Pages 9-10, 17-22, 27-38 Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Board of directors - Table 1 and Table 2 2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body 2025 Proxy Statement Pages 22-25 2-11 Chair of the highest governance body 2025 Proxy Statement Page 9 2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the management of impacts AES Corporate Governance Guidelines Pages 2, 6 AES Governance Committee Charter 2025 Page 6 2-13 Delegation of responsibility"
"for managing impacts AES Governance Committee Charter 2025 Page 1 2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting AES Governance Committee Charter 2025 Pages 5, 6 2-15 Conflicts of interest 2025 Proxy Statement Page 15 2-16 Communication of critical concerns 2025 Proxy Statement Page 16 2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body 2025 Proxy Statement Pages 22-25 2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body 2025 Proxy Statement Page 22 2-19"
"Remuneration policies 2025 Proxy Statement Pages 39-68 2-20 Process to determine remuneration 2025 Proxy Statement Pages 39-68 2-21 Annual total compensation ratio Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Talent Management - Table 5 2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 3 2-23 Policy commitments Code of Conduct Pages 1-23 Human rights Policy Pages 1-2 2-24 Embedding policy commitments 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 44-45 2-26 Mechanisms for"
"seeking advice and raising concerns 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 45 Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report Our Priority Assessment GRI Index SASB Index Assurance Statement Forward-looking statements / disclaimer  53 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION GRI code GRI Indicator Source Page/ Table 2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations 2024 Improving"
"Lives Report Page 44-45 Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2023 Talent Management - Table 12 2-28 Membership associations 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 26 2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Stakeholders - Table 1 2-30 Collective bargaining agreements Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Talent Management - Table 4 GRI 3 - Material Topics 3-1 Process to determine material topics 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 51 3-2 List of"
"material topics 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 51 3-3 Management of material topics 2024 Improving Lives Report Pages 17, 36, 44 Topic Disclosures 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Energy Consumption - Table 1 302-3 Energy intensity Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Energy Consumption - Table 1 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Energy Consumption - Table 1 2024"
"Improving Lives Report Page 38 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2023 Water (all tables) 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 41 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 41 303-3 Water withdrawal Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Water - Table 1 and Table 3 303-4 Water discharge Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Water - Table 1 and Table 3 303-5 Water consumption Excel"
"data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Water - Table 1 and Table 3 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Emissions - Table 2 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Emissions - Table 4 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Emissions - Table 5 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Emissions - Table 1 305-5"
"Reduction of GHG emissions 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 38 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Emissions - Table 7 306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 42 306-2 Management of significant waste related impacts 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 42 306-3 Waste generated Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Waste - Table 1, Table 3,"
"Table 4 and Table 5 306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Waste - Table 3, Table 4 and Table 5 306-5 Waste directed to disposal Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Waste - Table 3, Table 4 and Table 5 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Talent Management - Table 1 and Table 3 Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability"
"About this Report Our Priority Assessment GRI Index SASB Index Assurance Statement Forward-looking                       statements / disclaimer  54 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION GRI code GRI Indicator Source Page/ Table 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 24 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 2024 Annual Report"
"Page 52 2025 Proxy Statement Page 13 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 23 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation AES website Keeping our people safe 403-3 Occupational health services 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 23 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 23 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 2024 Improving Lives Report Pages 23, 25 403-6 Promotion of"
"worker health 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 24 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 25 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Health and Safety - Table 3 403-9 Work-related injuries Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Health and Safety - Table 1 and Table 2 404-1 Average hours of training"
"per year per employee Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Talent Management - Table 8 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 19, 21 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Talent Management - Table 11 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Board of directors"
"- Table 1 Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Our People - Table 9 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 2024 Annual Report Page 73-74 Electric Utilities Specific Disclosures (2013) EU1 Installed capacity, broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory regime Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Installed capacity - Table 1 and Table 2 EU2 Energy output broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory"
"regime Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Generation - Table 1 and Table 2 EU3 Number of residential, industrial, institutional and commercial customer accounts Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Operation - Table 3 EU4 Length of above and underground transmission and distribution lines by regulatory regime Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Operations - Table 9 EU10 Planned capacity broken down by energy source and regulatory regime Excel data tables -"
"Sustainability Report 2024 Installed capacity - Table 4 EU11 Generation Efficiency of Thermal Plants Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Operations - Table 4 EU12 Transmission and distribution losses Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Operations - Table 5 EU25 Number of injuries and fatalities to the public involving company assets, including legal judgements, settlements and pending  legal cases of diseases Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Health and Safety"
"- Table 5 EU28 Power outage frequency Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Operations - Table 1 EU29 Average power outage duration Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Operations - Table 1 and Table 2 EU30 Average plant availability factor by energy source Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Operations - Table 3 Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report Our Priority Assessment GRI"
"Index SASB Index Assurance Statement Forward-looking                       statements / disclaimer  55 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION SASB Index SASB code SASB Indicator Source Page/Table Sustainability Disclosure Topics & Metrics IF-EU-110a.1 (1) Gross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage covered under (2) emissions-limiting regulations and (3) emissions-reporting  regulations Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Emissions -"
"Table 2 and Table 6 IF-EU-110a.2 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions associated with power deliveries Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Emissions - Table 5 IF-EU-110a.3 Discussion of long- and short-term strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions reduction targets, and an analysis  of performance against those targets 2024 Improving Lives Report Pages 37-38 IF-EU-120a.1 Air emissions of the following pollutants: (1) NO_{x} (excluding N_{2} O), (2) SO_{x} , (3) particulate"
"matter (PM_{10} ), (4) lead (Pb),  and (5) mercury (Hg); percentage of each in or near areas of dense population Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Emissions - Table 7 IF-EU-140a.1 (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed; percentage of each in regions with High or Extremely High Baseline Water  Stress Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Water - Table 1 and Table 3 IF-EU-140a.2 Number of incidents of non-compliance associated with water quality permits,"
"standards and regulations 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 41 IF-EU-140a.3 Description of water management risks and discussion of strategies and practices to mitigate those risks 2024 Improving Lives Report Page 41 IF-EU-150a.1 Amount of coal combustion residuals (CCR) generated, percentage recycled Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Waste - Table 2 IF-EU-150a.3 Description of coal combustion products (CCPs) management policies and procedures for active and inactive operations 2024"
"Improving Lives Report Page 42 IF-EU-240a.1 Average retail electric rate for (1) residential, (2) commercial, and (3) industrial customers Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Customers - Table 4 IF-EU-240a.3 Number of residential customer electric disconnections for non-payment, percentage reconnected within 30 days Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Customers - Table 6 IF-EU-240a.4 Discussion of impact of external factors on customer affordability of electricity,"
"including the economic conditions of the service  territory Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Stakeholders - Table 1 IF-EU-320a.1 (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR), (2) fatality rate, and (3) near miss frequency rate (NMFR) Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Health and Safety - Table 1 and Table 2 IF-EU-420a.2 Percentage of electric load served by smart grid technology^{2} Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Operations - Table 6 IF-EU-420a.3 Customer"
"electricity savings from efficiency measures, by market^{3} Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Customers - Table 5 IF-EU-540a.2 Description of efforts to manage nuclear safety and emergency preparedness not applicable as AES doesn’t operate any nuclear asset IF-EU-550a.1 Number of incidents of non-compliance with physical or cybersecurity standards or regulations Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Cybersecurity - Table 1 IF-EU-550a.2 (1) System Average Interruption"
"Duration Index (SAIDI), (2) System Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI), and (3)  Customer Average Interruption Duration Index (CAIDI), inclusive of major event days^{4} Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Operations - Table 1 and Table 2 Activity Metrics IF-EU-000.A Number of: (1) residential, (2) commercial, and (3) industrial customers served Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Customers - Table 3 IF-EU-000.B Total electricity delivered to: (1) residential, (2)"
"commercial, (3) industrial, (4) all other retail customers, and (5) wholesale  customers Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Customers - Table 2 IF-EU-000.C Length of transmission and distribution lines Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Operations - Table 9 IF-EU-000.D Total electricity generated, percentage by major energy source, percentage in regulated markets Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Generation - Table 1 and Table 2 IF-EU-000.E Total wholesale"
"electricity purchased Excel data tables - Sustainability Report 2024 Operations - Table 8 Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report Our Priority Assessment GRI Index SASB Index Assurance Statement Forward-looking                       statements / disclaimer  56 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION     ) + ) )/..0-) // ( )/  '/$)/*The AES"
"Corporation’s GHG  )1 )/*-4)      +*-/!*-/# спсу ' )- - #$...0-) // ( )/#.  )+- +- !*-# *-+*-/$*)$)*-) 2$/#*0-*)/-/2$/#-'$)/*)  -1$ .Ѷ  ѵ  -(.*!) ( )/  2.*(($..$*) 4# *-+*-/$*)җҘ/*+-*1$ $) + ) )/..0-) *!$/.-  )#*0. .җ      Ҙ  ($..$*).Ѷ )1$-*)( )/'Ѷ)# '/#).! /4җ  Ҙ$)1 )/*-$ .(“the Report”)!*-/# ' )-4 -җҘспсу$)./ /# ..0-) -$/ -$"
"'*2/*'$($/ ' 1 '*!..0-) )(/ -$'$/4*!/# +-*! ..$*)'%0 ( )/*!/# 1 -$!$ - 0.$) ’s verification procedure ) рупхуҊ-/т!*--  )#*0. . ($..$*).ѵ ’s verification procedure  $.. *)0-- )/ ./+-/$. .)$.$)*-) 2$/# тппп) турпѵ 0-..0-)  ) ( )/ *1 - ’ $)/ -)'*+ -/$*).)/$1$/$ .$)спсу).+ $!$''4/# !*''*2$) - ,0$- ( )/.ѷ •   -$!4$)*)!*-() 2$/#ѷ •  ’ r +*-/$)( /#**'*$ .!*-/#"
". ' / /. /.Ѹ) •  *-' .*0- . )./$/0/ ҝ*-'0.$) ..*0)$'!*-0./$)'  1 '*+( )/-  )#*0. .-*/**'ѷ *-+*-/ *0)/$))- +*-/$)./)-Ѷ- 1$.  $/$*)җ*/# -2$. - ! -- /*./#  ҝ  -*/**'Ҙ!*-/#    /рѵ •   1$ 2$)2# /# -/#  +*-/#./& )*0)/*!ѷ •      -*/**'*+ т*0)/$)) +*-/$)/)-ѵ •  1'0/$)/# 0-4)- '$$'$/4*!/)$)!*-(/$*)!*-*)'4/# . ' / $)$/*-.'$./  '*2ѷ"
"•  $- /җ*+ рҘѶ) -4 )$- /җ*+ сҘ)/# - )$- /җ*+ тҘ     ($..$*).Ѷ0.$)/#  ,0$/4 .#- *+ -/$*)'*0)-4Ѹ ▪  *+ т  ($..$*).1 -$!$ 4 *)'4$)'0 /# !*''*2$)ѷ •  / *-4р0-#. **.) -1$ .ѷ0)$$+'/ -Ѹ •  / *-4т0 ')) -4 '/ /$1$/$ .ѷ$)$))/-).+*-/*!*'!*- ) -/$) .//$*).$)0 -/*$*)/# ) .Ѹ •  / *-4т0 ')) -4 '/ /$1$/$ .ѷ0-#. ' /-$$/4*'/*). -.Ѹ •  /"
"*-4ф./  ) -/ $)+ -/$*).ѷ )!$'' 2./ Ѹ •  / *-4х0.$) ../-1 'ѷ$-)        */ 'Ѹ) •  / *-4ц(+'*4  *((0/$) •  ' /-$$/4 ) -/$*)Ѷ-*..)) /Ѹ •  / -2$/#-2')$.#- Ѹ •  .#о4+.0( ) -/$*))- 4'$)!-*(*'*(0./$*)Ѹ •  $-($..$*).җсѶ3Ѷ)     ҘѸ •   5-*0.))*)Ҋ#5-*0.2./  ) -/$*)Ѹ •  ) -40. !-*(!0 '*).0(+/$*)) ' /-$$/4*).0(+/$*)Ѹ •  ! /4'*.//$( $)$ )/. -/ .җ*+"
"-/$*)'*)/-*'ҘѸ •  ! /4!/'$/4. -/ .җ*+ -/$*)'*)/-*'ҘѸ) •  0( -*!!/'$/$ .җ*+ -/$*)'*)/-*'Ҙѵ 0-..0-)  ) ( )/ 3'0  -/$)/)$)!*-(/$*)Ѷ. .-$  '*2ѷ •           ($..$*)./($)$./-/$1 *!!$ .)!0$/$1 ( /#)  ($..$*).!-*(*'*)/# .$.*!/# $- ($)$($. *)/-$0/$*)/*/# /*/'$)1 )/*-4Ѹ   1.  http://www.ghgprotocol.org/    •  / - .. !*- ) -/$*)/#4-* ' /-$+')/.$.)*/*).$ -"
"2$/#-2'*-$.#- )$. 3'0 ѵ / -0. $)($)$./-/$1 *!!$ .2.'.* 3'0 Ѹ) •  GHG emissions and EHS data related to AES’ suppliers, contractors and any other thirdҊ+-/$ .2 -  3'0 Ѷ 3 +/ .!*''*2.ѷ*+ т       ($..$*).!*-*+ -/$*).).! /4( /-$.!*-*+ -/$*).)*)./-0/$*)*)/-/*-. where AES has personnel onsite to enforce AES’ EHS requirements.  ’s responsibility is only to ѵ   $.'$(. )4 '$$'$/4 *- - .+*).$$'$/4"
"/* */# -. .  3+'$)  $) /#   ) !**/)*/ ѵ’ responsibility is for collecting, aggregating, analysing and presenting all the data and information within  /#  +*-/)!*-($)/$)$) !! /$1 $)/ -)'*)/-*'.*1 -/# .4./ (.!-*(2#$#/#  +*-/$. -$1 ѵ'/$(/ '4Ѷ /#  +*-/#.  )++-*1 4Ѷ)- ($)./# - .+*).$$'$/4*!ѵ  LRQA’s Opinion Based on LRQA’s approach,  3 +/!*-/#  !! /*!/# (// -. .-$ $)/# .$.!*-0'$!$ +$)$*)Ѷ)*/#$)#."
"*( /**0-// )/$*)/#/2*0'0. 0./* '$ 1 /#/#.)*/Ѷ$)''(/ -$'- .+ /.ѷ •   //# - ,0$- ( )/.*!/# -$/ -$'$./ *1 Ѹ) •  $.'*. 0-/ )- '$' + -!*-() /)$)!*-(/$*)..0((-$5 $)' р '*2ѵ # *+$)$*) 3+- .. $.!*-( *)/# .$.*!'$($/ ' 1 '*!..0-) с)//# (/ -$'$/4*!/# +-*! ..$*)' %0 ( )/*!/# 1 -$!$ -ѵ  .$.!*-0'$!$ +$)$*) •  # $)1 )/*-$ .!*-2./  ) -/$*)Ѷ2/"
"-2$/#-2')$.#- Ѷ)..*$/ *+ т      ($..$*). !*-/# . / *-$ .*)*/*)/$)/!-*(#$* )*Ҋ2) Ѷ!*-2#$#*2).фڿ ,0$/4.#-  0/ * . )*/ #1  *+ -/$*)' *)/-*'ѵ # .  *($..$*). * )*/ #1   (/ -$' $(+/ *) /#  ..*$/  $)1 )/*-$ .ѵ ' рѵ0((-4*!’*+ р)с-  )#*0. .($..$*).,0$/4#- /Ѷспсуѵ  / ( ,0$/4#-  0)/$/4 )$/ *+ р         ($..$*)–*..$'җ 3'0 .$* )$Ҙ"
"счѶсшрѶсфу  /-$*).с  $* )$  ($..$*). тпѶстп  /-$*).с  *+ с         ($..$*).–җ */$*)Ҋ. Ҙрѵр утшѶуцф  /-$*).с  *+ с  ($..$*).–җ-& /Ҋ. Ҙрѵр утшѶуцф  /-$*).с  */ рѵрѷ*+ сѶ */$*)Ҋ. )*+ сѶ-& /Ҋ. -  !$) $)/#  ҝ -*/**'*+ с0$) Ѷспрф   ' сѵ0((-4*!’ Scope 3 -  )#*0. .($..$*).,0$/4#- /Ѷспсуѵ  / ( ,0$/4#-  0)/$/4 )$/ *+ тѷ0-#."
"**.) -1$ .ѷ0)$$+'/ - рхш  /-$*).с  *+ тѷ$)$))-).+*-/*!*'/*0 -/*$* тцѶфрх  /-$*).с    сѵ#  3/ )/*! 1$ ) Ҋ/# -$)!*-'$($/ ..0-)  ) ( )/$.' ../#)!*-- .*)' ..0-)  ) ( )/ѵ $($/  ..0-)  ) ( )/.!*0.*)- / /-/# -/#)+#4.$''4# &$).*0- //.$/ .ѵ*). ,0 )/'4Ѷ/# ' 1 '*! ..0-) */$) $)'$($/ ..0-)  ) ( )/$.'*2 -/#)/# ..0-) /#/2*0'#1 "
")*/$) #- .*)'  ..0-)  ) ( )/  )+ -!*-( ѵ       Assurance Statement  Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report Our Priority Assessment GRI Index SASB Index Assurance Statement Forward-looking                       statements / disclaimer  57 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION   .   / ( ,0$/4#-  0)/$/4 )$/ *+"
"тѷ$)$))-).+*-/*!*'/*/# ) . рсшѶуцу  /-$*).с  *+ тѷѷ0-#. ' /-$$/4*'/*). -. рѶхцпѶшчх  /-$*).с  *+ тѷ./  ) -/ $)*+ -/$*).ѷ )!$'' ршѶррр  /-$*).с  *+ т0.$) ..-1 'ѷ$--1 ' рѶцух  /-$*).с  *+ т0.$) ..-1 'ѷ */ '/4. ррц  /-$*).с  *+ тѷ(+'*4  *((0/$)ѷ-'$)/*)Ѷ     ,0-/ -.).$/ .$) *'*($Ѷ 3$*))(сѵр рѶуфп  /-$*).с  *+"
"тѷ(+'*4  *((0/$)ѷ*2 - ) -/$*).$/ .$)-5$' җ!*..$'Ҙсѵс фс  /-$*).с  *+ тѷ(+'*4  *((0/$)ѷ*2 - ) -/$*).$/ .$)-5$' җ$* )$Ҙсѵс тс  /-$*).с  */ сѵрѷ($..$*)./*1 -.цуڿ*! (+'*4  .$)/# . '*/$*). */ сѵсѷ $($/ /*/-).+*-//$*)*! (+'*4  .4/#$-+-/4ѵ  ' тѵ0((-4*!’ Environmental ,0$/4#- /Ѷспсуѵ  / ( ,0$/4#-  0)/$/4 )$/ ' /-$$/4 ) -/ Ҋ-*.. ххѶпчфѶхуц # ' /-$$/4 )"
"-/ Ҋ / хсѶфчпѶрфр # / ( ) -/  сѶццу # ) -40. җ!0 '*).0( !*- ' /-$$/4 ) -/$*)Ҙ рпфѶпуцѶпчр # ) -40. җ+0-#.  ' /-$$/4!*-*2)0. Ҙ спуѶхсх # / -$/#-2' рѶхцчѶсфхѶхпр 0$ / - / -$.#-  рѶхруѶссчѶфрс 0$ / - *'$./  ) -/$*)ѷ.#о4+.0(!-*(*'*(0./$*) сѶшчсѶчпц  /-$*). *'$./  4'$)ѷ.#о4+.0(!-*(*'*(0./$*) рѶтрсѶупч  /-$*). $-($..$*).ѷ0'+#0-$*3$ җсҘ сфѶпчх "
"/-$*). $-($..$*).ѷ$/-* )3$ .җ3Ҙ сфѶхрч  /-$*). $-($..$*).ѷ-/$0'/ // -җҘ рѶфсх  /-$*). $-($..$*).ѷ -0-4җ       Ҙ пѵсп  /-$*). *)Ҋ#5-*0.2./  тцѶшпп  /-$*).         5-*0../ тѵр тѶррс  /-$*). */ тѵрѷ !$) .#5-*0.2./ .2./ '..$!$ .#5-*0.4'*'++'$' -0' .)- 0'/$*).*-0) -/# . '*)1 )/$*)ѵ '$,0$.)*)/($)/ .*'$2./ - '.*$)'0 ѵ       .  '"
"уѵ0((-4*!’ ! /4/!*-+ -/$*)''4*)/-*'' $'$/$ .Ѷспсуѵ  / (сѵр + -/$*)' *)/-*' 0)/$/4 )$/  *./$(  )$ )/. / Ҋ(+'*4  . пѵпшу  -сппѶппп      *0-.  *./$(  )$ )/. / Ҋ+ -/$*).*)/-/*-. пѵпхш  -сппѶппп  *0-.  *./$(  )$ )/. / Ҋ*)./-0/$*)*)/-/*-. пѵптц  -сппѶппп        *0-. /'$/4. / Ҋ(+'*4   п  -сппѶппп  *0-. /'$/4. / Ҋ+ -/$*).*)/-/*-. п  -сппѶппп"
"*0-. /'$/4. / Ҋ*)./-0/$*)*)/-/*-. п  -сппѶппп      *0-. 0( -*!/'$/$ .–(+'*4  . п  . .   ’s Approach  ’s ..0-)  ) ( )/.- --$ *0/$)*-) 2$/#*0-1 -$!$/$*)+-* 0- ѵ# !*''*2$)/.&.2 -  0) -/& ).+-/*!/#  1$ ) /# -$)+-* ..!*-/#$...0-)  ) ( )/ѷ •  )'4.$)      ($..$*).)       /!-*(.(+' *!!$'$/$ .Ѹ •  $)/ -1$ 2$)- ' 1)/ (+'*4  .*!/# *-)$5/$*)- .+*).$' !*-()$)"
" ($..$*).)       /) - *-.Ѹ •  .. ..$)’/() ( )/.4./ (./**)!$-(/# 4-  .$) /*+- 1 )/.$)$!$)/ --*-.Ѷ*($..$*).*- ($.Ҋ.// ( )/.$)/#  +*-/ѵ $/#$.4- 1$ 2$)/#  !! /$1 ) ..*!/#)'$)+-* 0- .Ѷ$)./-0/$*). ).4./ (.Ѷ$)'0$)/#*. !*-$)/ -)',0'$/4*)/-*'Ѹ •  1 -$!4$)спсу         ($..$*).)       //)- / ' 1 'Ѹ) •  - 1$ 2$)AES’s base year - '0'/$*)+*'$4!*-*)!*-()"
")*)!$-($)/#/+ -!*-( /# )  ..-4 )'4.$./* / -($) $!. 4 -- '0'/$*)$.)  ..-4ѵ. 4 -- '0'/$*)2.)*/)   ѵ   ’s Standards, Competence and Independence  $(+' ( )/.)($)/$).*(+- # ).$1 () ( )/.4./ (/#/(  /.- $//$*)- ,0$- ( )/.!*-  рупхфGreenhouse gases – Requirements for greenhouse gas validation and verification bodies for use in accreditation or  other forms of recognition )  ҝ  рцпср Conformity"
"assessment – Requirements for bodies providing audit and  certification of management systems/#/- /' ./. ()$)./# - ,0$- ( )/.*!/#  )/ -)/$*)'/)-*) 0'$/4*)/-*'р)*(+'42$/#/#  Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants $..0 4/#  )/ -)/$*)'/#$. /)-.*-!*-*0)/)/.ѵ    Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report Our Priority Assessment GRI Index SASB"
"Index Assurance Statement Forward-looking                       statements / disclaimer  58 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT     |    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION      ).0- ./# . ' /$*)*!++-*+-$/ '4,0'$!$ $)$1$0'.. *)/# $-,0'$!$/$*).Ѷ/-$)$)) 3+ -$ ) ѵ # *0/*( *!''1 -$!$/$*)) -/$!$/$*).. ..( )/.$./# )$)/ -)''4- 1$ 2 4. )$*-() ( )//* ).0-  /#//# ++-*#++'$ $.-$*-*0.)/-).+- )/ѵ   $) "
"/ ѷрр+-$'спсф         -**& -- '' **-$)/$)   -*% /рѷ *+ рос        ($..$*). ) -4 .  -*)!*-()   *4 '4)2($*.. -*% /сѷ *+ тѷо/ - *+ тѷ ' /-$$/4)/ ( ) -/$*) / -$/#-2')$.#-  1$  ' / -*% /т *+ тѷ0.$) ..-1 ' *+ тѷ(+'*4  *((0/$)          )- *&-/# -*% /у .#о4+.0( ) -/$*)) 4'$) $-($..$*).ѷсѶ3ѶѶ      Marisol Bacong  -*% /ф"
"*)Ҋ      5-*0../          5-*0../  *+ тѷ./  ) -/ $)+ -/$*).  1$'' $. -*% /х ! /4     -$!$ -. ) #'!*! Ѷ )ѵѶ сфпп$/4 ./'1Ѷ/ рфп    *0./*)Ѷццпус    - ! - ) ѷпппппухсҝцтпхууп    -*0+ $($/ Ѷ$/.!!$'$/ .).0.$$-$ .Ѷ)/# $-- .+ /$1 *!!$ -.Ѷ (+'*4  .*- )/.- Ѷ$)$1$0''4)*'' /$1 '4Ѷ- ! -- /*$)/#$.'0. .Ѿ Ѿѵ  ..0( .)*- .+*).$$'$/4).#'')*/ '$'"
"/*)4+ -.*)!*-)4'*..Ѷ( *- 3+ ). 0. 4- '$) *)/# $)!*-(/$*)*-1$ $)/#$.*0( )/*- #*2.* 1 -+-*1$ Ѷ0)' ../#/+ -.*)#..$) *)/-/2$/#/# - ' 1)/  )/$/4!*-/# +-*1$.$*)*!/#$.$)!*-(/$*)*-1$ )$)/#/. )4- .+*).$$'$/4 *-'$$'$/4$. 3'0.$1 '4*)/# / -(.)*)$/$*).. /*0/$)/#/*)/-/ѵ # )'$.#1 -.$*)*!/#$...0-) // ( )/$./# *)'41'$1 -.$*)ѵ ..0( .)*- .+*).$$'$/4!*-1 -.$*)./-).'/"
"$)/**/# -')0 .ѵ  #$...0-) // ( )/$.*)'41'$2# )+0'$.# 2$/#/#  +*-//*2#$#$/- ! -.ѵ /(4*)'4 - +-*0 $)$/. )/$- /4ѵ  *+4-$#/Ҷ Ѷспсфѵ Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report Our Priority Assessment GRI Index SASB Index Assurance Statement Forward-looking                       statements / disclaimer  59 IMPROVING LIVES    |    2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT"
"|    COPYRIGHT © THE AES CORPORATION Forward-looking  Statements / Disclaimer This report was published June, 2025 and contains forward- looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Act of  1933 and of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward- looking statements include, but are not limited to, those related  to future energy demand, future power prices, the availability  and cost of natural gas, the growth of solar and other renewable  forms of electricity generation and"
"energy storage, future carbon  taxes or regulations, potential rates of reduction in coalfired  electricity generation, the expected operating life of existing coal- fired electricity generation plants, the level of energy efficiency  investments, emissions or other targets, the impact of demand- side management and AES’ corporate strategy,. Forward-looking  statements are not intended to be a guarantee of future results but  instead constitute AES’ current expectations based on reasonable"
"assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to,  normal levels of operating performance and electricity volume at  our distribution companies and operational performance at our  generation businesses consistent with historical levels, as well as  achievements of planned productivity improvements and execution  of AES’ corporate strategy. Actual results could differ materially  from those projected in our forward-looking statements due to risks,  uncertainties and other factors."
"Important factors that could affect  actual results are discussed in AES’ filings with the Securities and  Exchange Commission (SEC), including, but not limited to, the risks  discussed under Item 1A “Risk Factors” and Item 7 “Management’s  Discussion & Analysis” in AES’ 2024 Annual Report on Form 10-K and  in subsequent reports filed with the SEC. Readers are encouraged to  read AES’ filings to learn more about the risk factors associated with  AES’ business. AES undertakes no obligation to"
"update or revise any  forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information,  future events or otherwise. Material contained on our or any external  website is not part of and is not incorporated by reference in this  report. Any Stockholder who desires a copy of the Company’s 2024  Annual Report on Form 10-K filed March 11, 2025 with the SEC  may obtain a copy (excluding the exhibits thereto) without charge  by addressing a request to the Office of the Corporate Secretary,  The AES"
"Corporation, 4300 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Virginia  22203. Exhibits also may be requested, but a charge equal to the  reproduction cost thereof will be made. A copy of the Form 10-K may  also be obtained by visiting the Company’s website at www.aes.com.  Table of Contents CEO Letter Executive Summary About AES Our Business Strategy People Planet Accountability About this Report Our Priority Assessment GRI Index SASB Index Assurance Statement Forward-looking                       statements"
"/ disclaimer  The AES Corporation 4300 Wilson Boulevard Arlington, VA 22203 USA 703-522-1315 www.aes.com"
