"Amazon 2024 Susta i na bi l ity Repor t Contents Learn more about our cover photos Overview 3 Introduction 5 How We Work 4 A Letter from Our 6 Goals Summary Chief Sustainability 7 2024 Year in Review Officer Progress 8 Carbon and Energy 28 Human Rights 43 Inclusive Experiences 18 Waste and Circularity 30 Responsible Supply Chain 45 Community Impact 21 Packaging 34 Sustainable Products 47 Responsible Business Practices 24 Water 37 Employee Experience 26 Biodiversity 40 Health and Safety Appendix"
"50 Data Tables 56 Assurance Statements 54 Priority Topics Assessment 56 Disclaimer and Forward-Looking Statements 55 Endnotes 2 Overview Progress Appendix Introduction A Letter from Our Chief Sustainability Officer How We Work Goals Summary 2024 Year in Review Introduction About Amazon innovate more sustainable solutions. This report details our work to embed decarbonization efforts across our business and the industries we work in; prevent and Amazon is a global company with more than 1.5"
"million responsibly divert waste; avoid, optimize, and transform full- and part-time employees worldwide and operations in packaging; reduce, reuse, and replenish water; and Africa, Asia-Pacific, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, avoid and minimize biodiversity loss within our own and North America. operations and beyond our value chain. We describe At Amazon, we combine data and science with passion our commitments to respect human rights, foster a and innovation to tackle some of the"
"world’s most urgent responsible supply chain, offer more sustainable products, environmental and societal challenges. We set bold, and support local communities. We also discuss how our long-term aspirations, such as The Climate Pledge—our efforts align with our ambition to be the safest workplace goal to reach net-zero carbon emissions across our global in our industries, and how we prioritize employee operations by 2040—and create strategic, actionable well-being and inclusivity. Finally, we"
"highlight our robust plans to achieve them. This determined, solutions-focused governance, share our responsible business practices, and approach guides our efforts to create lasting, positive reinforce our commitment to operating with integrity to impact for our customers, employees, communities, and uphold the trust of our stakeholders. the planet. Framework Disclosures About This Report In addition to this report, we share our Sustainability This report details progress against our goals and"
"Reporting Framework Summary on our website, which How to Navigate This Report prioritized sustainability topics. All financial figures are includes our 2024 performance against reporting reported in U.S. dollars ($), unless otherwise stated. The frameworks including the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), data within this report reflects the period from January 1 the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), Look for these symbols throughout the report: through December 31, 2024, unless"
"otherwise indicated. the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures A link that directs you to a website This report includes information about many of our (TCFD), and the United Nations Guiding Principles on business units and subsidiaries, including, for example: Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). A link within the report AWS, Devices, Amazon Fresh, Whole Foods Market, A link to a download Amazon Private Brands, Stores, and Twitch. Download Accessible Table Our 2024 Sustainability"
"Report covers a range of priority Learn more in our 2024 Sustainability topics, highlighting Amazon’s efforts to scale our work Reporting Framework Summary globally, collaborate with others, and invest in and 3 Overview Progress Appendix Introduction A Letter from Our Chief Sustainability Officer How We Work Goals Summary 2024 Year in Review A Letter from Amazon is a unique company. The diverse nature of our next-generation Alexa personal assistant that’s meaningfully preventing and diverting"
"waste, and in 2024, 85% of our business allows us to test new sustainability solutions across smarter, more capable, and is the first personal assistant waste was diverted from landfill. industries. When we discover a solution in one area, we can that can take significant actions for customers. We’ve also As we continue to champion sustainability solutions for quickly adopt it across our business, helping us move faster harnessed AI as a powerful sustainability tool—optimizing Our Chief our"
"customers, we’re doing the same for our partners and toward our sustainability goals. As a customer-obsessed sizing recommendations to reduce returns, identifying suppliers. As of today, over 550 companies have committed company, we find this approach helps us make our customers’ energy inefficiencies, detecting water leaks, and avoiding to The Climate Pledge and are choosing to come together to lives better and easier every day, while making our operations packaging—solving countless"
"environmental challenges Sustainability drive joint action and fast-track decarbonization solutions. more sustainable. while simultaneously improving service quality. And we’re In that same spirit of collaboration, we’re engaging our just at the beginning. We’re developing cutting-edge AI, delivering packages at suppliers to set their own sustainability goals. To accelerate record speeds, creating award-winning entertainment, As we harness generative AI’s potential and our AI collective"
"progress, we launched The Sustainability Exchange, Off icer advancing healthcare solutions, and promoting global business continues to grow rapidly, we are investing in the sharing our playbooks and previously proprietary insights broadband access—while simultaneously reducing waste, infrastructure that we’ll need to make AI innovation possible. freely with businesses worldwide. This collaborative approach expanding carbon-free energy, using lower-carbon building We’re also tackling one of its"
"greatest challenges head on, multiplies our impact by allowing companies to build on proven materials, protecting forests, protecting and furthering rising energy demand. Rather than viewing this as a limitation solutions, combines our collective resources to tackle our human rights, and helping our communities recover from for sustainability, we see it as an opportunity we’re facing greatest environmental challenges, and drives industry-wide global disasters. head-on to pioneer sustainability"
"solutions at scale through momentum with a powerful blend of urgency and optimism. our AWS business for our customers and our suppliers. Amazon’s culture also encourages us to ask “Why?” at every Looking ahead, we recognize that the path to being a more turn. When we ask why sustainability matters, the answer In 2024, we unveiled breakthrough data center innovations sustainable company will never be linear, because we’re is clear: Sustainability is not separate from our customer in power"
"systems, cooling technology, and hardware charting new territory at an unprecedented scale. While we obsession—it’s an extension of it. Solutions that benefit architecture that will simultaneously support next-generation are firm on our goals, our approach will continuously evolve the environment can create superior experiences for AI capabilities while improving energy efficiency—proving with emerging challenges and opportunities, as we’re seeing our customers and also become economic drivers"
"that that technological progress and sustainability can advance with the rapid adoption of AI. No matter what we’re faced help strengthen communities and protect the planet. in tandem. We’re also diversifying and expanding our with in the future, we’ll remain steadfast in our commitment In 2024, we demonstrated this repeatedly across our carbon-free energy portfolio, which includes our first to sustainability and will continue to invest, innovate, and business, with sustainability innovations"
"directly enhancing investments in nuclear energy, alongside maintaining our obsess over our progress each year, with the same intensity customer experiences. For example, our ongoing packaging position as the world’s largest corporate purchaser of and focus that has defined Amazon from Day One. innovations meant customers had fewer boxes to break renewable energy for the fifth consecutive year. Through The progress demonstrated in this report is the result of the down and now zero air pillows to"
"pop. these complementary approaches—optimizing efficiency years of work by thousands of Amazonians who have never while scaling carbon-free energy—we’re creating a more 2024 also marked a turning point for artificial intelligence stopped asking “Why?” to find better and more sustainable sustainable foundation that AI needs to fulfill its (AI). It’s a transformative technology that we believe solutions. This questioning mindset has uncovered innovative world-changing potential. will reinvent"
"virtually every customer experience, as well ways to reduce waste, cut emissions, and improve efficiency. as create new experiences that we only once dreamed AI is already embedded in much of this work, but when I’m confident our habit of asking tough questions will would be possible. Over the last few years, Amazon has our customers think about sustainability at Amazon, it’s lead to continued breakthrough solutions for decades to accelerated its investments in generative AI to build these most"
"often associated with our retail business, which we’ve come. Thank you to everyone—our teams, partners, and experiences across our business and, including through the made more sustainable too. In 2024, we delivered at faster customers—who have helped turn these questions into 1,000-plus AI applications we’re developing across Amazon. speeds than ever before, with 10 billion items delivered real-world progress. We introduced Amazon Q, the most capable AI-powered the same or next day around the"
"world. At the same time, With gratitude, coding assistant; SageMaker, a service that makes it easier our growing fleet of over 30,000 electric delivery vehicles to build foundation models; Amazon Bedrock, which allows helped deliver 1.5 billion packages globally. Across our global Kara Hurst developers to do GenAI inference at scale; our own frontier operations, we eliminated all plastic air pillows and replaced Chief Sustainability Officer model, Amazon Nova, to give customers leading"
"intelligence them with recyclable paper filler. We also reduced our total at lower latency and cost; and we’re rolling out Alexa+, our plastic packaging by 16.4%. We’ve been keenly focused on 4 Overview Progress Appendix Introduction A Letter from Our Chief Sustainability Officer How We Work Goals Summary 2024 Year in Review How We Work Our Mission To make customers’ lives better and easier every day. Our Business Our Operations Our Supply Chain Our Workforce Our Communities Our Customers We are"
"committed to addressing We offer a wide range of products and We procure materials, commodities, Amazon’s more than 1.5 million Amazon is committed to investing We continually seek new and better sustainability at every stage of services—both Amazon-branded and components, finished goods, and full- and part-time employees are in local communities, and being a ways to serve customers, offering our value chain. from other brands and third-party sellers services from a complex supplier key to our"
"success, from enabling good neighbor all around the world, lower prices, more convenient —through our Amazon stores, supported network. We engage suppliers globally global fulfillment to delivering on wherever we operate. We work services, and a larger selection by advanced global transportation and to align our expectations for respecting sustainability initiatives. We support side-by-side with community partners of more sustainable products. logistics capabilities. We also operate human"
"rights, maintaining safe, them in advancing their own career to build long-term, innovative We also help customers advance businesses in digital media, including inclusive workplaces, and promoting goals, and we offer competitive pay programs that have a lasting positive their businesses and enable digital the creation and distribution of original more sustainable practices. and benefits, upskilling and educational impact. Programs vary globally transformations through AWS, entertainment"
"content. In addition, AWS programs, opportunities to give back to and include increasing access to content development services, and provides the world’s most widely adopted our communities through volunteerism, affordable housing, alleviating hunger, advertising options. In addition, and comprehensive cloud offering, as well as an inclusive workplace. strengthening education, and helping we support small businesses with supporting customers and businesses those impacted by natural disasters"
"access to Amazon’s tools, resources, around the globe. when they occur. and network, helping them reach customers around the world. Our Reporting Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Topics Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences We include a number of topics in our reporting. We view these topics as interconnected and recognize that our progress in one area can often Community Impact"
"Responsible Business Practices help address challenges in another. 5 Overview Progress Appendix Introduction A Letter from Our Chief Sustainability Officer How We Work Goals Summary 2024 Year in Review Goals Summary Download Accessible Table Achieved Making Progress Did Not Meet Goal 2022 Progress 2023 Progressss 2024 Progress Status Goal 2022 Progress 2023 Progressss 2024 Progress Status Carbon and Energy Water 65.10M MTCO e 64.38M MTCO e 68.25M MTCO e* Amazon is committed to returning more"
"water 2 2 2 Reach net-zero carbon emissions across our to communities in India than it uses in all direct Goal set in 2024 global operations by 2040 operations by 2027 85.7g CO e/$GMS 75.6g CO e/$GMS 72.6g CO e/$GMS† 2 2 2 AWS will be water positive by 2030, returning 41% progress toward 53% progress toward Through The Climate Pledge, inspire and empower more water to communities than it uses in its Goal set in 2022 meeting its water meeting its water others to join us on a mission to reach net-"
"zero 396 signatories 473 signatories 549 signatories direct operations positive goal positive goal** carbon emissions by 2040 Employee Experience At least 100,000 electric delivery vans on the road 7K+ electric 19K+ electric 31.4K+ electric by 2030, from Rivian and other manufacturers delivery vans delivery vans delivery vans Invest $1.2 billion to upskill over 300,000 U.S. 110K employees 358K+ employees 439K employees Amazon employees by 2025 upskilled upskilled†† upskilled Community Impact"
"Deploy 10,000 electric vehicles (EVs) in India 3.8K+ EVs deployed 7.2K+ EVs deployed 10K+ EVs deployed by 2025 $1.6B committed $1.8B committed and $2.2B committed and Invest $3.6 billion to create and preserve and 11K homes created ~15.8K homes created 21K+ homes created or more than 35,000 affordable homes‡‡ or preserved or preserved preserved Match 100% of the electricity consumed by our global operations with renewable energy by 90% matched 100% matched 100% matched 2025—five years ahead of"
"our original target of 2030 Distribute up to $60 million in AWS cloud $14M+ in cloud $32M+ in cloud $60M in cloud computing credits to support organizations computing credits computing credits computing credits promoting global health by the end of 2024§§ distributed distributed distributed Invest in wind and solar capacity equal to the 100% capacity 100% capacity 100% energy matched energy used by all active Echo, Fire TV, and Ring procured procured in 2022 with operational capacity devices"
"worldwide by 2025‡ Help 29 million people globally grow their technical skills by providing free cloud 13M people helped 21M people helped 31M people helped computing skills training by 2025 Waste and Circularity Reduce food waste by 50% across U.S. 82M meals-equivalent 80M meals-equivalent 81M meals-equivalent Provide free artificial intelligence (AI) skills 2M+ people provided Goal set in 2023 and Europe operations by 2030§ donated globally donated globally donated globally¶ training to 2"
"million people globally by 2025 AI skills training *Carbon dioxide equivalent. †Grams of carbon dioxide equivalent per dollar of gross merchandise sales. ‡To understand what this goal should encompass, we model **A number below 100% indicates AWS is still working to meet the water positive goal. ††In 2022, we reported progress for the Career Choice program in and measure the energy consumed by our devices in different types of use, then project their total average global annual electricity"
"consumption. §Goal scope the U.S. In 2023, we expanded our reporting to include all in-scope upskilling programs in the U.S. ‡‡In 2024, we announced an expanded commitment covers food that is considered inventory. It is measured with a food waste intensity metric that calculates the amount of food waste generated as a percentage of $1.4 billion to create and preserve an additional 14,000 homes. This goal is not currently time-bound. §§In January 2024, AWS announced an of total food handled"
"within Amazon. ¶Meals-equivalent donated globally aligns with our approach to prevent waste by prioritizing the flow of products to their additional $20 million in funding for the Health Equity Initiative, bringing the company’s total commitment to $60 million in cloud credits. intended use, in this case ensuring surplus food goes toward human consumption. A reduction in meals-equivalent donations indicates a reduction in food waste. 6 Overview Progress Appendix Introduction A Letter from Our"
"Chief Sustainability Officer How We Work Goals Summary 2024 Year in Review 2024 Year in Review As we reflect on 2024, we are proud of our achievements. We have worked hard to reduce our environmental footprint, drive improvements throughout our value chain, and to create a safer, more inclusive place for people to work. 16.4% 1.7B+ 12% Reduction in single-use plastic Units sold that were recognized by Of packages globally shipped 49K delivery packaging globally certifications in our Climate"
"Pledge without additional Amazon Friendly program, a 48% increase packaging as part of the Ships in from 2023 Product Packaging program Gl Hectares of land protected or restored through biodiversity and 1.15 nature-related contributions and investments over the past five years 34% 7.8M+ Global Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) for AWS data centers, compared to the industry average of 1.25 Improvement in Recordable Incident Students reached from underserved Rate (RIR) and 65% improvement"
"communities globally through 85% in Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) Amazon Future Engineer programs among employees across our global Landfill diversion rate, up from 84% operations over the past five years. $2.2B in 2023 and 82% in 2022 RIR includes any work-related injury that requires more than basic first aid treatment and LTIR includes any Invested in pay for U.S. employees work-related injury that requires in frontline operations roles, someone to take time away from Launched Amazon"
"Sustainability bringing average base pay to over work (the most serious injuries) Exchange to help others take action, $22 per hour and average total sharing our formerly proprietary compensation to over $29 per guidelines, playbooks, science hour including the value of models, and other resources 4.3B elected benefits 3.6K+ 1.5B Supplier audits including Liters of water returned to 100K+ Amazon-branded products, communities from active 95M third-party labor, service, and replenishment projects,"
"with more not-for-resale goods providers Employees participated in Career than 7 billion liters of total annual Packages delivered by electric Meals donated or delivered to across our logistics, warehousing, Choice, our free education and skills contracted replenishment delivery vehicles globally households in need and construction supply chain training program volume for future years 77 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights"
"Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices Carbon • Deploying lower-carbon alternatives. We use lower-carbon options when practicable, such as Match 100% of the electricity Invest in wind and solar farm capacity Goal Goal lower-carbon concrete and steel during construction, consumed by our global operations equal to the energy use of all active with renewable energy by 2025—five Echo,"
"Fire TV, and Ring devices and Energy recycled and bio-based plastics in data center years ahead of our original target worldwide by 2025 components, and lower-emission fuels and vehicles of 20303 for transportation. 100% Of energy used by active Echo, Fire • Investing in carbon-free electricity. We invest in TV, and Ring devices worldwide was 100% Of electricity consumed by Amazon carbon-free energy, such as on-site solar, utility-scale matched with operational wind and was matched with"
"renewable energy solar and wind, nuclear, as well as battery energy solar capacity in 20244 Our Approach sources in 2024, for the second storage to collect and store carbon-free energy.2 consecutive year • Engaging with suppliers. We actively engage, Amazon is investing in new solutions to decarbonize our business by using our size, scale, and resources to drive support, and incentivize suppliers to join Amazon’s At least 100,000 electric delivery vans Goal decarbonization journey by setting"
"credible goals, regulatory and policy issues aimed at advancing on the road by 2030, from Rivian and progress across our supply chain and the industries in other manufacturers5 which we operate.1 implementing emissions reduction strategies, and and incentivizing decarbonization. transparently sharing their progress, and we create • Catalyzing climate finance and market-based Through The Climate Pledge , which we co-founded and industry solutions that our suppliers can utilize, like the 31.4K+"
"mechanisms. We use mechanisms (e.g., insets and book committed to in 2019, our goal is to reach net-zero carbon Amazon Sustainability Exchange . Electric vans deployed globally and claim) to spur development of decarbonization emissions across our global operations by 2040, while inspiring and inviting others to take action. We recognize Beyond our own operations, we are working to accelerate technologies and transform the sectors in which that progress will not always be linear, but we remain"
"decarbonization across industries and with suppliers by: we operate. This allows us to make progress on commodities where decarbonization solutions are focused on serving our customers better, faster, and with • Catalyzing industry-wide action. We bring not yet available within our direct supply chain. Inspire and invite others to sign fewer emissions. Goal companies together from around the world through The Climate Pledge and join us on • Neutralizing remaining emissions. While our first a"
"mission to reach net-zero carbon Our strategy is aligned with climate science and embeds The Climate Pledge, driving collective action, emissions by 2040 priority is to eliminate emissions within our value decarbonization initiatives and efficiency improvements cross-sector collaboration, and engagement in chain, we are also investing in climate mitigation across our business and supply chain. Teams across initiatives that encourage industry-wide measures solutions outside of our value chain as"
"a contribution Amazon are accountable for setting decarbonization to promote decarbonization. 549 to global climate action. Our approach focuses on plans that map back to Amazon’s worldwide strategy, as Signatories, up from 473 in 2023 • Investing in innovation. We adopt ready-to-scale direct investment, advance purchase agreements, ownership and accountability are essential to operational solutions, and we evaluate and invest in emerging coalition building, new methodology development, success"
"and managing complexity. We focus on four technologies through The Climate Pledge Fund — and technological innovation. cross-cutting initiatives to decarbonize our business: including those that can help address emissions from Deploy 10,000 electric vehicles in • Driving efficiency across our global operations. We hard-to-abate sectors. We also provide direct Goal Our Progress India by 2025 identify and implement efficiency initiatives across funding to accelerate the widespread adoption Amazon,"
"such as improving transportation routing, of such emerging technologies. increasing pack and fill rates, improving cloud-computing Our Carbon Footprint 10K+ Electric vehicles deployed in India, • Supporting policies that drive decarbonization. chip efficiency, adding Low Power Mode to devices, and surpassing our goal one year ahead We work with policymakers, governments, installing energy-efficiency solutions in buildings. of schedule6 nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), industry Regular and"
"transparent reporting is an important part associations, coalitions, and other organizations on of our decarbonization strategy and our Climate Pledge 8 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices commitment. We measure both absolute emissions and travel to our customers. By"
"dividing our operations carbon intensity to provide a complete picture of our and transportation networks into smaller regions and Reach net-zero carbon emissions Actions Goal progress toward our 2040 goal. Absolute emissions are stocking more of the products our customers want locally across our global operations by 2040 critical to our end goal, and carbon intensity helps us customers can get the products they want quickly and we assess the effectiveness of our actions along the way. can"
"utilize more sustainable modes of transport to deliver This type of comprehensive measurement is not only those products to them. In 2024, we avoided millions of #1 Largest corporate purchaser of Amazon’s Carbon Footprint (MMT CO₂e*) renewable energy in the world for important for us, but it is also useful for our customers miles due to increased efficiency from this regionalization the fifth consecutive year, according Direct Emissions and partners, so they can understand how investments effort"
"and expect to accelerate this progress in coming to BloombergNEF Indirect Emissions from Purchased Electricity† across our value chain are driving real progress. years. Additionally, we continue to optimize how we fill Indirect Emissions from Other Sources† our trucks and are increasing the use of electric vehicles Carbon intensity (gCO₂e/$GMS)‡ After two years of decreasing absolute carbon emissions, (EVs). And when we can’t use EVs, we use lower-carbon we saw a 6% increase in 2024.7 This is"
"where carbon 3.7M Gallons of blended SAF procured 71.54 transportation modes, such as alternative fuel vehicles, intensity helps us examine whether we’re employing the 68.25 where possible. By the end of 2024, we had reduced the right solutions in the near term, and decoupling emissions 65.10 64.38 carbon emissions per shipped unit by roughly one-third from business growth.8 In 2024, we achieved a 4% since 2019. Specific examples include: 12.11 reduction in carbon intensity compared to 2023,"
"with 11% 1.5B Packages delivered by EVs globally 60.64 4.07 business growth during the same period. We have also • Offering customers shipping options that improve 15.13 13.02 seen a sustained reduction in carbon intensity year over routing, by combining products into one delivery. In 14.22 2.80 3.06 year and have reduced our carbon intensity approximately 2024, Prime members in the U.S. saved an estimated 2.76 9.62 40% since committing to The Climate Pledge in 2019.9 452 million delivery trips,"
"which helped avoid the use of 51.17 1.15 Global Power Usage Effectiveness 5.27 As we continue toward our 2040 goal, our progress will more than 494 million boxes and the generation (PUE) for AWS data centers, compared 5.76 not be linear, but we will remain focused on investing in of 335,000 metric tons of CO e. Learn more about how to the industry average of 1.25 2 long-term solutions, optimizing for network efficiencies, we are improving routing efficiency 5.50 helping our supply chain"
"decarbonize, and innovating with • Expanding our electric delivery fleet by delivering 1.5 our partners in the hard-to-abate parts of our business. 621 Total renewable energy projects billion packages to customers using more than 31,400 globally—including 124 new 122.8 Direct Emissions electric delivery vans and other EVs. To support our projects—representing 34 GW 102.7 100.8 of capacity expanding EV network, we installed 11,770 chargers 85.7 Amazon’s direct emissions are primarily generated"
"from at 50 delivery stations, creating the largest private 75.6 the fuel used by our transportation and logistics fleet to 72.6 charging network in the U.S. In early 2025, we also deliver packages to customers, and refrigerants to keep announced our largest order of zero-tailpipe-emission 90% Of our highest-emitting suppliers buildings and products cool. One way we address this is heavy goods vehicles, with more than 200 new have decarbonization plans in place by continually refining our"
"strategy to reduce emissions 39.91 45.75 55.36 49.02 47.40 50.32 Mercedes-Benz Trucks eActros 600 vehicles set to join generated during the full journey of an Amazon package— 2019 2020 2021 2022§ 2023§ 2024§ our transportation network in Europe. These vehicles from its origins with the manufacturer to the doorstep of are expected to transport 338 million packages per year Launched Amazon Sustainability Exchange to help others *Million metric tons carbon dioxide equivalent. the customer. when"
"fully operational. Learn more about how we are take action, sharing our formerly proprietary guidelines, † Scope 2 and 3 carbon emissions are calculated using a scaling up EVs playbooks, science models, and other resources10 market-based method. We know that speed matters to our customers, which is ‡ Grams of carbon dioxide equivalent per dollar of gross why we invest in our logistics and delivery capabilities merchandise sales. • Scaling lower-carbon fuels. In 2024, Amazon procured § We updated"
"our Carbon Methodology used for our 2022, 2023, to optimize for faster deliveries while prioritizing 3.7 million gallons of blended sustainable aviation fuel and 2024 carbon footprint sustainability. For example, we’ve optimized our inventory (SAF). In addition, we expanded our use of renewable placement to shorten the distance products have to 9 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable"
"Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices diesel—a lower-carbon fuel made from waste fats and This increased energy demand is from AI chips, which We aim to reduce embodied carbon in building construction Sustainable Aviation Buyers Alliance (SABA), which help oils—using 4.7 million gallons in middle and last mile are vital for machine learning models, but require more by using lower-emission concrete, lower-emission"
"steel and develop lower-carbon solutions for hard-to-abate sectors operations, up from 286,300 gallons in 2023. Learn electricity and cooling than traditional chips given the aluminum, and mass timber. In 2024, 49 Amazon building and commodities. Our partnerships with organizations more about how we are scaling lower-carbon fuels higher speeds at which they complete mathematical projects incorporated lower-carbon building materials and such as the Clean Energy Buyers Association (CEBA), RMI’s"
"calculations.11 We are laser-focused on improving energy finishes, avoiding at least 77,000 metric tons of embodied Sustainable Steel Buyers Platform, the Smart Freight Our direct emissions increased 6% compared to 2023, as efficiency, which we measure through Power Usage CO e.13 Learn more about how we are reducing embodied Centre, and The Center for Green Market Activation support 2 our business continued to grow and we navigated global Effectiveness (PUE). In 2024, AWS reported a global"
"carbon in our buildings innovation and decarbonization across multiple industries. supply constraints for EVs and low-carbon fuels. This PUE of 1.15—better than both the public cloud industry Learn more about how we are catalyzing industry action reinforces the importance of our leadership in creating Reducing indirect emissions from other sources requires average of 1.25 and 1.63 for on-premises enterprise stronger demand signals for lower-carbon transportation engaging our suppliers on their"
"efforts to decarbonize. It This work extends through The Climate Pledge, which had data centers, as estimated by the International Data solutions through buyers’ alliances, partnerships with is important that all suppliers understand their business reached 549 signatories by the end of 2024 and is working Corporation.12 A lower PUE value indicates greater industry leaders, policymakers, and other companies. and how they will decarbonize, and that they have a on 11 joint action projects to"
"address critical climate efficiency (with the theoretical minimum PUE being 1.0), plan to do so. To enable that, we are open-sourcing challenges. The Climate Pledge Fund, which marked its and indicates that using AWS to power AI innovation is Indirect Emissions from Purchased Electricity information and making playbooks available through fifth year of investing in 2024, enables us to invest in a lower-emission option than most. We achieved this the Sustainability Exchange , a free, publicly"
"available companies operating in hard-to-abate sectors. In 2024, success from optimized data center designs, energy- Our indirect emissions from purchased electricity primarily website offering previously proprietary information the fund made 12 new and follow-on investments across efficient custom chips, and advanced cooling technologies. come from electricity used to power buildings and charge to help other companies seeking to make meaningful transportation, energy, buildings, and carbon"
"removal For example, new AWS data center components EVs at our facilities. Two of the most effective ways we progress toward net-zero carbon emissions. Learn more sectors. Learn more about how we are investing in introduced in 2024 deliver 12% more computing power manage indirect emissions from purchased electricity are about how we are engaging suppliers innovation through the Climate Pledge Fund and reduce peak cooling energy consumption by 46% by transitioning to carbon-free energy sources"
"and by compared to previous designs, all without increasing improving energy efficiency. Indirect emissions from other sources, which made up Looking ahead, we remain committed to innovation water usage. Learn more about how we’re improving 74% of our total carbon footprint in 2024, increased and collaboration. We aim to deliver the best for our Nuclear power is a key component of our carbon-free energy efficiency to power AI innovation 6% from 2023, primarily from data center construction"
"customers and communities while progressing toward our energy strategy, in addition to using renewable energy and fuel consumption by third-party delivery service goal of net-zero carbon emissions across our operations For the past two years, 100% of the electricity consumed sources such as wind and solar. In 2024, we signed providers. As we look forward, we will continue to focus by 2040. Ultimately, we strive to contribute to a better by Amazon was matched with renewable energy sources."
"agreements to support nuclear energy projects, including on our supplier engagement programs and our investment planet for all. This helps us reduce carbon emissions, but doesn’t the development of Small Modular Reactors (SMRs). SMRs in lower-carbon building materials, which help create eliminate them. We saw a 1% increase in our indirect feature a compact design that enables faster construction Embedding Decarbonization scalable solutions for reducing indirect emissions across emissions from"
"purchased electricity in 2024, in part due to closer to power grids, which allows for more rapid our business. Efforts Across Our Business the higher electricity usage required to support advanced deployment than traditional reactors. Additionally, as of technologies. This underscores why it’s important to scale January 2025, we had invested in 621 renewable energy Engaging Others on the Path to Net-Zero carbon-free energy sources to continue to deliver the projects—including 124 new projects in"
"2024 alone— Driving Efficiency Across Our Global Carbon by 2040 advanced technologies our customers need. representing 34 GW of carbon-free energy capacity. Operations Learn more about how we are transitioning to We recognize that addressing complex sustainability Indirect Emissions from Other Sources From how we deliver packages and operate our cloud carbon-free energy challenges—like enabling widespread electrification, technologies to how we design buildings and products, scaling lower-carbon"
"fuels, and increasing the availability Indirect emissions from other sources are from activities Today, in virtually every corner of Amazon, we’re using we continually seek ways to use less energy and generate of lower-carbon building materials—requires growing beyond our direct operations, including building materials generative AI to make customers’ lives better and easier— fewer emissions. demand to expand supply and achieve lower costs and construction, third-party transportation, and the"
"and while we’ve made a lot of progress, we’re still at the through efficiencies of scale. We drive change through production of Amazon-branded products and their relative beginning. One of the biggest challenges with industry engagement and buyers’ alliances like Zero components by our suppliers. scaling AI is increased energy demands for data centers. Emission Maritime Buyers Alliance (ZEMBA) and the 10 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water"
"Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices Enhancing Routing and Fleet Efficiency deliver packages using electric delivery vehicles to transport lower-carbon construction materials; and (5) reducing In 2024, AWS had a global PUE of 1.15. This was achieved products from the distribution center to an electric tram on-site water consumption and waste generation."
"These through optimized data center designs, purpose-built Optimal routing and transportation network efficiency is followed by micromobility e-cargo bikes in Frankfurt, efforts are supported by investments in innovative chips, and innovative cooling technologies. Additionally, one of our most impactful ways of reducing emissions. To Germany—achieving zero tailpipe emissions from delivery technology, as well as regular testing and learning to in 2024, we unveiled new AWS data center components,"
"optimize routing and transportation network efficiency, station to customer. We have also continued to invest refine our approach and guide future development. offering 12% more compute power with improved we deploy a multi-pronged strategy to reduce emissions in lower-carbon fuels and deployment of electric and availability and efficiency. AWS also introduced a novel, during the full journey of an Amazon package from its In 2024, we conducted 200 energy audits of our alternative fuel vehicles"
"to reduce transportation- direct-to-chip liquid cooling solution for high-density manufacturer all the way through to the customer. We existing buildings to inform future upgrade programs related emissions. AI compute chips in new and existing data centers. These prioritize the lowest-emission delivery methods wherever and to help optimize operational performance. We components reduce mechanical energy consumption possible, while balancing trade-offs in speed, cost, We aim to avoid unnecessary"
"delivery packaging whenever also improved energy efficiency in our North America by up to 46% during peak cooling—without increasing reliability, and convenience. possible, and select lighter, right-sized options, to ship and Europe fulfillment centers through optimizing water usage. products to customers with fewer associated emissions. warehouse ventilation controls, updating heating Where possible, we prioritize lower-emission transportation We also aim to increase pack and fill rates to"
"optimize and air conditioning scheduling, upgrading dock door Additionally, with increased computing power required for options, using a mix of road, rail, sea, and air. In 2024, truck and airplane space, which can also reduce the levelers, and implementing intelligent materials handling AI and other applications, investing in purpose-built chips we offered our customers shipping options that promote number of trucks needed to make deliveries. In addition, equipment management. These system"
"optimizations that advance innovations in power efficiency continues to routing efficiency, further reducing the miles traveled and we provide customers with shipping options that helped reduce energy consumption by 92 million be an important part of our strategy. We offer a number the average carbon emissions associated with delivery. reduce the emissions associated with the delivery of kilowatt hours and helped avoid 24 million metric tons of chips with energy-efficiency benefits. For example,"
"In 2024, Prime members in the U.S. saved an estimated their packages. of CO₂e compared to 2023. We piloted a prototype of Graviton-based instances use up to 60% less energy than 452 million deliveries due to consolidating their Prime a new high-performance dehumidification technology, comparable instances for the same performance. At the deliveries, which helped avoid the use of more than 494 Learn more about our more sustainable packaging which decreases air conditioning energy consumption end"
"of 2024, over 70,000 customers had adopted Graviton million boxes and 335,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide approach and associated emissions while improving air quality for chips, achieving an estimated reduction of 12,000 MTCO₂e equivalent (MTCO₂e). Ocean and rail transportation have occupants in buildings located in humid climates. due to increased energy efficiency. Amazon’s own adoption Implementing Efficiency Initiatives in Our Buildings a lower carbon footprint than air transportation, so"
"we of Graviton chips has achieved an estimated reduction of prioritize shipping our products via those modes, when As we progress our building decarbonization efforts, Building construction is a significant driver of carbon 71,000 MTCO₂e in 2024. Other efficiency savings include feasible. In 2024, 90% of our imported transoceanic we continue to obtain validation of our improvements emissions in many industries, due to the associated Inferentia2-based instances, which offer up to 50% better"
"shipments were transported via ocean freight and 10% through Zero Carbon certification by the International embodied carbon that is emitted during the construction performance/watt over comparable Amazon Elastic transported via airfreight, consistent with 2023. We Living Future Institute (Living Future). In 2024, a sortation process. Amazon’s buildings portfolio includes owned and Compute Cloud (EC2) instances, and AWS Trainium3 chips increased our total rail load volume by 59% in Europe and"
"center in Melbourne, Australia, was certified, bringing our leased facilities in 65 countries, encompassing a number are designed to be up to 40% more energy efficient than 11% in the U.S. compared to 2023. total Living Future-certified buildings to four. of building types—including operations facilities, grocery AWS Trainium2 chips. stores, corporate offices, and data centers. As a result, Amazon launched rail deliveries in the UK for the first Optimizing AWS Global Cloud Infrastructure"
"Selecting Lower-Carbon Alternatives implementing and scaling decarbonization solutions time in 2024. Products are loaded onto train cars on the and processes to reduce the footprint of our built As the world’s most comprehensive and broadly adopted fully electric West Coast Main Line, which runs between Whenever possible, Amazon aims to select lower-carbon environment is a priority for Amazon. cloud, AWS is committed to building a more energy Scotland and the Midlands. More than 5 million"
"products alternatives across transportation, buildings, and products, efficient and lower-carbon business for our customers are expected to travel on the UK’s electric rail network and we consider a range of factors, including cost, Our building decarbonization work focuses on the and the planet, especially as advancements in digital in 2025, avoiding traffic congestion and reducing carbon emissions reduction potential, and availability. materials and methods used in construction as well"
"transformation and adoption of advanced technologies emissions, with plans to expand across further electric rail as the energy consumption and emissions associated such as AI increase global demand for data center Scaling Use of Electric Vehicles routes before the end of 2025. with operations that occur throughout a building’s capacity. Research estimates AWS infrastructure is up lifecycle. Our standardized approach targets five areas: We are focused on a comprehensive transportation We are"
"also exploring using inland waterways and to 4.1 times more efficient than on-premises computing, (1) prioritizing carbon-free energy; (2) increasing energy decarbonization strategy that includes optimizing our passenger trains as part of our Intermodal City Injections and when workloads are optimized on AWS, the efficiency; (3) using lower-carbon refrigerants; (4) using program. For example, we collaborated on a pilot project to associated carbon footprint can be reduced by up to 99%. 11"
"Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices network to minimize unnecessary transportation, promoting While we aim to scale up our use of EVs globally, nascent, with industry challenges including supply diesel from fulfillment and sort centers in California electrification where"
"technologically and operationally electrification at scale is a challenge. Our operations constraints, high prices, and limited access. We are making to Oregon and Washington. Amazon India Operations feasible, and pursuing efficient lower-carbon fuel solutions. look very different across the globe, and within our investments to help lower costs and scale supply, and entered into a strategic partnership with Hindustan transportation networks, we see different vehicle through industry"
"collaborations, we aim to encourage the Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) to push the We deliver packages to our customers every day, types from different suppliers. We need vehicles and development and expansion of lower-carbon fuels, making development and adoption of Low Carbon Fuels (LCFs) making vehicle electrification within our network a chargers that can meet our operational needs, as well these fuels more accessible and affordable for everyone. produced from agricultural and agro-"
"industrial waste, decarbonization priority for Amazon. We have set goals as our technical, cost, and sustainability requirements. We engage in efforts that focus on: with the goal of decarbonizing long-haul transportation to have at least 100,000 electric delivery vans on the road Specific challenges include limited land availability, in India. We also transitioned AWS backup generators globally by 2030 and more than 10,000 electric delivery • Lower-carbon marine fuels: As a member of the First"
"energy dependence, trade barriers, limited financing, to renewable diesel in parts of Europe and the U.S. and vehicles deployed in India by 2025. Movers Coalition and co-founder of ZEMBA in 2023, power availability at competitive rates, and unfavorable piloted this fuel at our Amazon Air Hub in Cincinnati/ we seek to expand the use of lower-emission fuels and policy environments. We are engaging with private and Northern Kentucky in ground support equipment. In 2024, we made progress toward"
"these goals, with more technologies for ocean transportation. We support the government partners to remove these barriers and enable than 31,400 electric vans deployed globally—including First Movers Coalition goal of using maritime ships with • Hydrogen: Hydrogen fuel vehicles are a promising broader access to electrification. more than 24,000 from Rivian—up from 19,000 in 2023. zero-emission fuels for at least 10% of cargo shipped alternative to other fuels, as they produce water vapor To"
"support this growth, we installed 11,770 chargers, internationally by 2030, and ZEMBA’s goal that freight instead of carbon emissions when combusted. In bringing our total to 24,000 chargers at 50 delivery Sourcing Better Materials and Designing buyers can purchase third-party verified zero-emission 2024, we used 17,800 hydrogen-powered forklifts at stations—now the largest private charging network in the More Efficient Products shipping for 100% of ocean cargo by 2040. In 2024, we more than 80"
"fulfillment centers in North America. In U.S. We also achieved our India goal ahead of schedule, purchased lower-emission biofuel services representing Japan and Europe, we began testing fuel-cell trucks deploying more than 10,000 electric vehicles in 2024, a We know that producing more sustainable and efficient the maritime transportation of more than 10% of our to evaluate their operational efficiency compared to year earlier than planned. These initiatives enabled us to products starts with"
"responsibly sourcing raw materials. ocean cargo. In addition, Amazon worked with dozens traditional diesel trucks. Agricultural deforestation is a significant contributor to deliver 1.5 billion packages via EVs globally in 2024. climate change, as it decreases carbon sequestration, thus of companies to support ZEMBA’s first tender for ocean • Renewable Natural Gas (RNG): In our transportation increasing GHG emissions. We aim to reduce deforestation shipping by committing to purchase"
"Environmental We continue to increase the usage of EVs that move network, we have compressed natural gas vehicles risk within our global grocery and commodities supply Attribute Certificates (EACs) associated with over shipments between Amazon facilities, which are called chains for commodities including palm oil, beef, coffee, (CNGs), which can reduce carbon emissions by at least 1 billion 20-foot shipping container-miles. middle mile EVs and include light, medium, and and tea. When we develop"
"Amazon devices, we aim 75% compared to diesel when refueled with RNG.14 In heavy-duty electric goods vehicles (eHGVs). In early for each generation to be more carbon-efficient than • Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF): For air transportation, 2024, there were more than 4,400 CNGs on the road the last by integrating efficiency features directly into 2025, we announced our largest order of zero-tailpipe- we source lower-carbon SAF and support the in our transportation network—an increase of 12%"
"product design and incorporating recycled materials into emission heavy goods vehicles , with more than 200 our products where feasible. Learn more about how development of SAF EACs. We work with peers on compared to 2023—which used 39 million gallons new Mercedes-Benz Trucks eActros 600 vehicles set to we are reducing deforestation risk and designing more- innovative solutions to resolve the low volume and high of RNG. join our transportation network in Europe, which are sustainable products"
"cost of SAF. We co-founded the Sustainable Aviation expected to transport 338 million packages per year once Utilizing Micromobility Solutions Buyers Alliance and played a significant role in the fully operational. We expect these vehicles to join the 300 launch of the (SAFc) Registry, which aims to increase We are working to scale micromobility solutions— middle mile EVs deployed in our transportation network Increasing Use of Lower-Carbon Fuels and transparency related to emissions reduction"
"claims and such as e-cargo bikes and on-foot deliveries—in our by the end of 2025 in the UK and by 2026 in Germany. We Alternative-Fuel Vehicles accelerate overall SAF deployment. In 2024, Amazon transportation network to bring packages to customers collaborate with others to advance the improvements in procured 3.7 million gallons of blended SAF. Electrification is our primary strategy for decarbonizing in more sustainable ways. In 2024, 170 million packages charging infrastructure and"
"electricity grids required to logistics and transportation network vehicles. Where were delivered via micromobility solutions globally, up enable more widespread use of eHGVs. • Renewable diesel: In 2024, we increased use of electrification is not yet feasible, we are scaling and from 125 million packages in 2023. renewable diesel—a lower-carbon fuel made from We are also focused on electrification of vehicles used encouraging the use of lower-carbon fuels, focusing waste fats and oils—and used"
"4.7 million gallons in In 2024, Amazon had 70 micromobility hubs—smaller, on-site. In 2024, Amazon had 360 electric yard hostlers, on road transportation in the short term and ocean middle and last mile operations, up from 286,300 centrally located delivery stations in dense cities—in more vehicles that move truck trailers around fulfillment centers, transportation and aviation over the long term. While gallons in 2023. We also expanded use of renewable in North America—one of the world’s"
"largest fleets. these fuels are important to our strategy, they remain 12 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices than 45 cities across Europe and in New York City in the • Lower-carbon concrete: We piloted lower-carbon We continue to track and report the embodied carbon"
"Transitioning to Carbon-Free Energy U.S. We added micromobility hubs in London and Norwich concrete solutions with a number of manufacturers of our building construction materials by using the As the energy needs of our business and customers in the UK, Paris in France, Naples and Florence in Italy, in 2024 to explore the use of calcined clay, natural Embodied Carbon in Construction Calculator , and we continue to grow, we are continuing to invest in Barcelona and Santander in Spain, Berlin and"
"Hamburg pozzolans, as well as cement containing less than 25% ask our key building contractors to do the same. In 2024, renewables and new sources of carbon-free energy that in Germany, and Belfast in Northern Ireland. In the U.S., clinker—a key concrete ingredient that accounts for a Amazon collaborated with the UK Chartered Institution can both help power our operations and bring new sources we continued on-foot deliveries in Manhattan, New York substantial portion of its embodied carbon"
"emissions.16 of Building Services Engineers (CIBSE) and Introba to of energy to the grid. Our energy portfolio includes City. Amazon also started piloting a new model of e-cargo AWS used 9,600 cubic yards of less than 25% clinker publish Technical Memorandum 65.3 (TM65.3) outlining renewable energy sources such as solar and wind, as well delivery bike in Brooklyn, New York , in November 2024 concrete at a data center in South Bend, Indiana, in the embodied carbon baselining guidance for the"
"design, as nuclear power, which can be brought online at scale, that can carry up to 120 packages per trip. U.S. This resulted in 1,500 tons of CO₂e avoided, which construction, operation, and/or maintenance of logistics and has a decades-long record of providing a reliable is a 60% reduction against a 2021 baseline. In March centers in Europe. Additionally, Amazon worked with Reducing Embodied Carbon in Our Buildings source of safe, carbon-free energy for communities 2025, this work was"
"recognized as “Slag Cement Project the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air- around the world. We are also expanding battery energy of the Year” by the Slag Cement Association, and Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) to adapt Technical We collaborate within the industries we operate to storage capacity to collect and store renewable energy to won a “Concrete Innovations” award from the National Memorandum 65 for North American building construction address embodied carbon emissions—the"
"emissions use when other energy sources may be unavailable—such Ready Mixed Concrete Association. We also used lower- and helped publish the TM65NA . generated from the manufacture, transportation, as at night or during periods of high demand—and to help carbon concrete developed by CarbonCure Technologies, installation, maintenance, and disposal of building Implementing Lower-Carbon Approaches improve grid stability. which we invested in through our Climate Pledge Fund, materials. By helping to"
"advance innovative, scalable to Heating and Cooling in 46 Amazon building sites in 2024.17 To date, we have solutions, we aim to reduce embodied carbon emissions, We recognize that making the transition to carbon-free used CarbonCure in 86 building sites. We continued to which are part of our Scope 3 footprint. We strive to use lower-carbon options for heating and energy will require embracing and advancing a range promote the use of lower-carbon concrete across our cooling of buildings to"
"reduce our Scope 1 and 2 emissions. of technologies and innovations—there is not a We use lower-carbon building materials across our industry by working with the Center for Green Market For example, we are switching more buildings to all-electric one-size-fits-all approach. We need to consider all viable buildings portfolio where possible. In 2024, 49 building Activation and RMI toward a proposed book-and- heat pump rooftop units (RTUs), which are more efficient and scalable solutions. In"
"addition to lowering emissions, projects across Amazon, including data centers, grocery claim system for concrete to accelerate demand-side than and eliminate on-site combustion. In 2024, we took the transition to carbon-free energy can create real stores, fulfillment centers, and corporate offices, were initiatives. In January 2024, AWS updated its design part in the U.S. Department of Energy’s Better Buildings economic growth in communities where energy projects constructed with lower-carbon"
"building materials and standards to require the use of concrete with 35% less Commercial Building Heat Pump Accelerator, which aims to are built and operate, while encouraging the modernization finishes. These projects avoided at least 77,000 metric embodied carbon than the industry average in new data drive the development and adoption of the next generation and better management of energy infrastructure. Learn tons of embodied CO₂e in 2024. centers around the world. In 2024, 38 data centers"
"were of heat pump packaged RTUs by 2027. more about our global renewable energy projects and constructed with lower-carbon concrete, in addition to our Renewable Energy Methodology • Lower-carbon steel: In 2024, Amazon joined the 36 data centers in 2023. By the end of 2024, 24 Whole Foods Market stores were Sustainable Steel Buyers Platform , a coalition relying on natural refrigerants in a primary refrigeration Solar and Wind Projects of leading corporations working to accelerate the • Mass"
"timber: In 2024, we developed Mass Timber system. Natural refrigerants refer to refrigerants such as availability of lower-carbon steel in North America, Sourcing Guidelines to inform our building materials ammonia, carbon dioxide, or propane, which are widely Our approach to expanding our renewable energy in particular lower-carbon iron making technologies. suppliers and building partners about sourcing and considered the most sustainable alternatives to HFC footprint includes robust investment"
"in utility-scale wind AWS constructed 36 data centers with lower-carbon deploying lower-carbon structural wood. In 2024, eight refrigerants. An additional 20 stores rely on a combination and solar projects. We have a strong track record of steel in 2024, in addition to 31 in 2023. AWS also Amazon buildings integrated mass timber structural of natural refrigerants and other refrigerants in a primary enabling utility-scale renewable energy projects, as one achieved an industry first by purchasing"
"steel made elements in design or construction. We are leveraging refrigeration system. Where possible, we pushed to of the first corporations to do so in India, Ireland, South using hydrogen direct reduction from SSAB, a Swedish our learnings from these first mass timber projects and integrate as much natural refrigerant as possible. Africa, Japan, and Indonesia. In 2024, Amazon invested steel company, and using it in one data center’s facade. exploring additional mass timber opportunities"
"across in 302 utility-scale wind and solar projects globally, Hydrogen direct reduction is a key technology that could our operations and data center building portfolios. including 76 newly operational ones, in 29 countries. As of help decarbonize the 76.3% of global steel production the end of 2024, we had announced 302 power purchase that uses iron ore.15 agreements (PPA). 13 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights"
"Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices to 281 across 30 states. This included investing in projects Delta Wind, a utility-scale wind farm along the Mississippi the Climate Pledge Fund, Amazon led an approximately Carbon-Free Energy Highlights that combine renewable energy with agriculture to bring Delta, is expected to bring a total of 834 MW of new $500 million Series C-1 financing"
"round in X-energy to economic benefits to farmers. We are collaborating with carbon-free energy to Mississippi, the equivalent of support nuclear technology development. X-energy is the renewable energy developer AES to use Maximo, an powering over 200,000 U.S. homes. targeting deployment of up to 960 MW of carbon-free • 100% of electricity consumed by Amazon was matched with renewable energy sources in 2024, for the second AI-powered robot, to support building Amazon-enabled energy to the U.S."
"grid by 2039—which would be the Battery Storage Solutions consecutive year solar farms , while enhancing safety and precision. largest SMR implementation in the industry. X-energy’s Xe-100 SMR technology delivers scalable, cost-effective • Since 2020, Amazon has been the world’s largest We invest in energy storage to collect and store renewable Across the Asia-Pacific region, Amazon has invested in carbon-free energy generation for high-demand industrial corporate purchaser of renewable energy"
"annually energy for use when other energy sources may be 97 renewable energy projects, including 53 in India. In customers and aims to establish a commercial framework unavailable—such as at night or during periods of high • World’s largest corporate buyer of offshore wind energy Japan, Amazon announced our first onshore wind farm for advanced nuclear energy deployment in the private in 2024, according to BloombergNEF demand—and to enhance grid stability. By the end of and stand-alone utility-"
"scale solar project—a 33 megawatt sector. We also began working with Energy Northwest on 2024, Amazon had eight solar energy projects paired with (MW) wind project located in Rokkasho, Aomori Prefecture, • 100% of energy used by active Echo, Fire TV, and Ring a project to develop SMRs. battery energy storage systems, representing 2.1 GW devices worldwide was matched with operational wind as well as a 9.5 MW solar farm located in Kudamatsu, of capacity, up from 1.9 GW in 2023. In 2024, Amazon and"
"solar capacity in 2024 Yamaguchi Prefecture. Amazon is the largest corporate We complement this work by seeking opportunities to powered nearly 4,000 hours of our operations from purchaser of renewable energy in Japan, with a total of support existing nuclear operations. We have signed • 621 total renewable energy projects announced globally energy stored in these batteries. 25 projects at the end of 2024. an agreement to build a data center facility near Talen as of January 2025—including 124"
"new projects in 2024—representing 34 GW of carbon-free energy Energy’s nuclear facility in Pennsylvania, which will help In 2024, Amazon invested in the Baldy Mesa battery At the end of 2024, Amazon had 319 rooftop solar capacity, which can produce 91,000 GW hours of power our operations with carbon-free energy. storage system , which is monitored through machine carbon-free electricity annually projects at our fulfillment centers, sortation centers, and learning powered by AWS and is used to"
"predict when and stores around the globe. These projects avoid roughly Engaging With Suppliers • 219 solar projects and 83 wind farms, totaling 302 how the project’s battery unit should charge and discharge 19.3 million metric tons of CO₂e each year. We brought utility-scale wind and solar projects as of January 2025 energy back to the grid, optimizing its performance. We Working with suppliers to help them reduce emissions is 51 new on-site rooftop solar energy systems online in • 319 on-site"
"rooftop solar systems at our fulfillment signed the first European Union (EU) Battery Energy critical to addressing climate change. We’ve identified our 2024, for a total capacity of 61 MW. These on-site rooftop centers and stores as of January 2025 Storage System (BESS) PPA that includes a 4 MW rooftop high-emitting suppliers, which represent 50% of our solar energy systems are estimated to generate 45 GWh solar photovoltaic system paired with a BESS in Spain. This Scope 3 emissions, and"
"mobilized our business units annually and avoid the equivalent of nearly 17,000 metric BESS initiative is expected to yield nearly 500 metric tons to drive key supplier decarbonization actions—such as tons of CO₂e annually. Amazon became the world’s largest corporate buyer of CO₂e avoided annually and enhanced energy resilience. setting credible targets, measuring and sharing progress, of offshore wind energy in 2024.18 One of the most Data Center Electricity Use Matched by and actively reducing"
"emissions. These suppliers are in a impactful ways we have done this is by enabling nearly 1.3 Nuclear Energy Sources Renewable Energy number of industries including transportation, building GW of carbon-free energy across five offshore wind farms construction, IT hardware and devices, as well as products Nuclear power is an important part of our carbon-free along the coasts of Germany, the Netherlands, and the UK. In 2024, we continued to match 100% of electricity and packaging. energy"
"strategy, as it can be brought online at scale and Once each project becomes operational, they are expected consumed in all data center regions with renewable has a decades-long record of providing reliable, safe, and to produce 5.8 GW hours of carbon-free energy annually— energy sources and worked with utilities and regulators on We recognized the need for practical tools to accelerate abundant carbon-free energy for communities globally. enough to power 1.6 million average European homes. In"
"green tariffs so that more companies can buy carbon-free implementation and to help support Amazon’s suppliers total, Amazon has announced 52 new renewable energy energy directly from renewable energy projects. In 2024, and value chain partners in their own decarbonization In 2024, we signed agreements to support the projects in Europe as of the end of January 2025, adding as part of a $10 billion investment for building two new efforts. That’s why in July 2024, we launched the development of"
"nuclear energy projects, including 2.5 GW of renewable energy capacity to grid in the region, data center complexes in Mississippi, AWS announced Sustainability Exchange . The Exchange is a free resource enabling the development of Small Modular Reactors for a total renewable energy capacity of 9 GW. a first-of-its-kind agreement with utility company hub designed to help organizations of all sizes advance (SMRs)—advanced nuclear reactors with a small physical Entergy Mississippi to enable 650 MW"
"of new renewable their sustainability initiatives. Through the Exchange, footprint. This smaller size allows them to be built closer In the U.S., we expanded our renewable energy footprint energy projects in the state over the next three years. Amazon is publicly sharing playbooks, case studies, tools, to the grid, with faster build times, allowing them to through 37 new solar and wind projects, bringing the total This investment, along with Amazon’s prior investment in come online sooner than"
"traditional reactors. Through 14 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices Engaging Our Suppliers on Our Decarbonization Journey and resources that have helped us progress toward our • Whole Foods Market encouraged suppliers to adopt own climate goals. Topics include carbon"
"measurement, climate-smart farming methods by partnering with transitioning to carbon-free energy, decarbonizing Wolfe’s Neck Center, funding and recruiting stakeholders Set Target Share Progress buildings and transportation, reducing operational waste, to implement regenerative and organic agriculture and how to purchase high-quality carbon credits. We practices that reduce emissions and improve soil health. continue to expand and update it regularly—in 2025, we Commit to credible reduction"
"targets Measure and regularly report • Whole Foods Market collaborated with Windfall Bio, that support reaching net-zero carbon: performance progress: included access to content in eight languages, and will a Climate Pledge Fund recipient, to successfully pilot soon add new regional- and industry-specific content. This alignment helps to ensure that our supply chain is This transparency helps to enable suppliers to understand its methane-eating microbes with dairy suppliers to moving in the same"
"direction and at a pace consistent with their emissions profile, identify hotspots, and execute action We announced a carbon credits service on the convert manure emissions, which can be up to 80 times our own goals. By setting credible targets, suppliers commit plans to achieve their decarbonization targets. to a concrete path for emissions reduction, creating Sustainability Exchange in early 2025 to offer high- more potent than CO₂ emissions, into organic fertilizer.19 accountability and"
"driving action. quality carbon credits to suppliers with decarbonization • Amazon Private Brands held carbon abatement goals. Credits are only available to companies that have workshops for suppliers focused on discussing challenges, set a net-zero carbon emissions target for no later than identifying abatement opportunities, as well as 2050, covering Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions; measure and collaboratively solving problems across materials, energy, publicly report their carbon footprint on a"
"regular basis; S What does this look like? g e t h a r e What does this look like? and commit to implementing decarbonization strategies in sourcing, and packaging. We increased participation from a r P 10 suppliers in 2023 to 35 in 2024. t T r o line with climate science. • Join The Climate Pledge or S e g r • Public disclosure of corporate e make a public commitment s carbon footprint through • Amazon Private Brands held a carbon-free energy forum s In addition, we work to advance industry"
"collaborations to reach net-zero carbon CDP, EcoVadis, or corporate with suppliers in China and Vietnam to promote increased by 2040 or earlier Sustainability Report. and engage suppliers across our business. In 2024, use of carbon-free electricity within the Amazon Private (science-aligned). • Share emissions data highlights included: Brands supply chain. • Amazon-specific with Amazon directly. commitment to reach • We developed pilot projects to make it easier for net-zero carbon by 2040 •"
"Amazon Devices received commitments from 93 suppliers suppliers to purchase renewable energy certificates or commitment to use in 2024, up from 49 suppliers in 2023, to reduce their carbon-free energy. and make progress toward their decarbonization goals. manufacturing emissions. We also supported 38 Device IPG, a packaging and protective solutions provider, suppliers—representing 80% of our direct manufacturing matched 100% of the electricity to power the majority spend for Echo, Kindle, Fire"
"tablet, Fire TV, Ring, Blink, Reduce Emissions of products sold to Amazon in 2024. Pregis, a packaging and eero devices and accessories—in developing supplier and Climate Pledge signatory, matched 100% renewable energy plans. of the electricity consumed to power operations that produce recyclable paper mailers provided to Amazon • AWS partnered with suppliers across semiconductor and Reduce Emissions in 2024. electronics manufacturing industries to set emission reductions roadmaps and increase"
"the adoption of • We worked with our top suppliers on carbon Take action to reduce emissions over time: What does this look like? carbon-free electricity. AWS is also a member of SEMI’s measurement and reporting to improve the We work with suppliers to identify and implement • Adopt carbon-free energy for operations. Semiconductor Climate Consortium (SCC) and worked to accuracy of emissions calculations and help enable activities that reduce their emissions. • Join The Climate Pledge joint"
"action project(s). increase access to carbon-free power and decarbonization suppliers and procurement professionals to manage • Pilot lower-carbon technologies with Amazon. standards and tools for the semiconductor industry. carbon performance quantitatively alongside other • Visit the Sustainability Exchange for tools to help performance metrics. meet target(s). 15 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply"
"Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices companies from around the world to drive collective but is responsible for 34% of CO₂ tailpipe emissions. Through the Amazon Sustainability Data Initiative The CClilmimate ate Pledge action, cross-sector collaboration, and engagement Laneshift-India expects to use the data from six months (ASDI) , we enhance access to data to accelerate in initiatives that"
"encourage industry action toward of route testing to create an EV freight roadmap business sustainability research, innovation, and collaboration by by the Numbers decarbonization. Signatories commit to regular GHG case, in an effort to reduce tailpipe emissions in the region. reducing the cost and time required to acquire and analyze reporting, making operational changes to decarbonize high-value datasets. These datasets are from public and theclimatepledge.com (opens in a new tab). The Climate"
"Pledge joined with the Center for Green At the end of 2024, The Climate Pledge represented: their business, and neutralizing remaining emissions with private sectors, including those related to weather, climate, Market Activation and RMI in 2024 to launch a new credible offsets. water, agriculture, air quality, and more, empowering 549 lower-carbon concrete buyers alliance.21 The alliance aims organizations to drive real world sustainability progress. In 2024, two of Amazon’s high-emitting"
"suppliers, Crane to use a book-and-claim system to decouple the physical One such example is OCEARCH , which shares its satellite 46 60 Worldwide Logistics and Shorr Packaging, signed The product from its environmental attributes, allowing telemetry information about shark movements through Climate Pledge, along with STS Group. The Pledge also companies to claim those benefits in advance of delivery. ASDI to advance global research on ocean health. signatories countries industries welcomed 76"
"new companies, including Stella McCartney, In 2024, nine signatories, along with several industry DL1961, Saie, and Dr. Bronner’s. In total, The Pledge partners, committed to co-design the alliance, which aims In addition, AWS’s Customer Carbon Footprint Tool included 549 companies in 46 countries and 60 industries to send demand signals to concrete producers to adopt allows customers to track, measure, review, and forecast as signatories at the end of 2024. new technologies for companies to"
"procure lower-carbon the estimated carbon emissions generated from AWS concrete at scale.22 usage. The tool helps our customers monitor the estimated With a growing number of signatories, the focus of the carbon emissions generated by AWS resources across a Climate Pledge shifted in 2024 to working on joint action, The Climate Pledge announced project JOULE (Joint number of services, regions, and time periods, and this small working groups, and addressing shared industry Operations Unifying"
"Last-Mile Electrification) in 2024, transparency allows customers to identify areas of higher challenges. The Science Club Cohort, for example, addresses aiming to build a network of electric vehicle (EV) charging emissions and implement targeted optimizations to measurement challenges. In 2024, The Climate Pledge stations in Bengaluru, India. By 2030, all the electricity reduce their footprint. supported the launch of six new joint action projects , used by the charging stations is expected to"
"be matched with participation from 16 signatories. with renewable energy, amounting to an estimated We continued to advocate for updated carbon accounting 6.2 MW of renewable energy capacity. Over the same guidelines for the Greenhouse Gas Protocol as a Laneshift , a public-private initiative under The Climate timeframe, the project is expected to support 5,500 EVs co-founder of the Emissions First Partnership, a coalition Pledge, was launched in 2023 with C40 Cities through a and spur an"
"investment of $2.65 million into the sector. committed to modernizing GHG accounting standards See a full list of signatories at theclimatepledge.com $10 million investment. This initiative aims to accelerate for the power sector. This work aims to accelerate grid the transition to zero-tailpipe-emission electric trucks and Advancing Industry Decarbonization decarbonization to mitigate the worst effects of climate charging infrastructure across cities in India, Brazil, and change by supporting"
"high-impact energy projects and To catalyze collective action on decarbonization, we share Mexico—and help decarbonize the road freight industry, Accelerating Decarbonization driving investments in renewable energy, battery storage, the expertise and resources we have developed as part of which currently accounts for 5% of global emissions.20 or other mitigation solutions. We have also contributed to beyond Our Own Business our own decarbonization efforts. the Advanced and Indirect Mitigation"
"Platform, a coalition In 2024, Laneshift-Latin America worked with the In 2024, we launched the Amazon Science Exchange , working to formalize accounting standards for International Finance Corporation on market sounding Catalyzing Industry Action and Innovation to address the critical technology gaps that impede market-based emissions reductions. and with regional multilateral development banks to through The Climate Pledge Amazon and our collaborators from meeting our accelerate deals in the"
"EV freight sector. Also, Laneshift- Investing in Innovation through The Climate sustainability goals. Our current work focuses on India launched a 370 km EV freight corridor project The Climate Pledge Pledge Fund packaging materials, building materials, and alternative between Bengaluru and Chennai, marking the first step fuels. Through our Amazon Science Exchange website, The Climate Pledge, which we co-founded in 2019, toward a network of connected EV freight highways in We are accelerating"
"and scaling new decarbonization we share science-based models to help others identify is a commitment to reach net-zero carbon emissions India. Electrifying the trucking sector in India is essential, technologies that will help enable Amazon—and other the most promising technological solutions and guide across our global operations by 2040. It brings together since trucking represents 3% of vehicles on India’s roads companies—to achieve net-zero carbon emissions by decision-making. 16 Overview"
"Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices adopting ready-to-scale solutions, investing in emerging in gathering timely and reliable data to manage water policy changes around the world. For example, we worked In 2021, we made an ambitious pledge to protect nature technologies, and"
"through direct funding. use without relying on traditional cellular or building with regulators in Indonesia and Thailand to pioneer and mitigate climate change through co-founding the network infrastructure. As a result, users can more easily utility green tariffs. In Europe, we supported ambitious Lowering Emissions by Accelerating Forest Finance (LEAF) The Climate Pledge Fund , a $2 billion venture monitor and control resources and detect water leaks. carbon emission reduction targets for"
"newly registered Coalition . The proceeds support curbing deforestation investment program that specifically targets companies By utilizing Subeca’s single-device ultrasonic smart water heavy-duty vehicles to accelerate deployment of and share the economic benefits with Indigenous peoples, operating in hard-to-abate sectors, is central to our meter, Amazon can improve the efficiency of its water zero-tailpipe-emission vehicles at scale. In the U.S., we traditional communities, and family"
"farmers. approach. The goal of The Climate Pledge Fund is to use and reduce water loss across its fulfillment centers, worked with the Low Carbon Fuels Coalition to continue support solutions that could accelerate and lower the Learn more about how we preserve biodiversity and grocery stores, offices, and data centers. our support for low-carbon fuels. Further, we engaged overall cost to decarbonize Amazon and the broader source better materials in our commodities supply chains in joint action"
"with organizations such as the Center for economy. In 2024, The Climate Pledge Fund reached a As part of The Climate Pledge Fund’s broader commitment Climate and Energy Solutions (C2ES), the Cambridge Advancing the Removal of Carbon from the milestone of five years of investments, making 12 to invest $50 million in climate initiatives led by women, Institute for Sustainability Leadership (CISL) Corporate Atmosphere with Nature-Based Solutions new and follow-on investments in multiple industry we"
"invested in three new female-founded and female-led Leaders Groups in the UK (CLG UK) and Europe (CLG sectors that affect climate change: transportation and companies in 2024, one of which is Paebbl. Paebbl converts Europe), and Japan Climate Leaders’ Partnership (JCPL) Nature-based carbon removal projects involve the logistics; energy generation, storage, and utilization; CO₂ into carbon-storing building materials, transforming to support innovation and decarbonization. extraction and retention"
"of atmospheric CO₂ by natural buildings; manufacturing and materials; the circular the built environment into a carbon sink. Concrete is the and managed ecosystems. When effectively implemented, economy; food and agriculture; carbon removal; and water. world’s second most used material, and Paebbl aims to Learn more about how we advocate for issues these projects can create benefits such as wildlife habitat, This brings The Climate Pledge Fund’s total investment future-proof its global supply"
"chain by locking carbon into that matter promote biodiversity, improve water quality, and reduce portfolio to 32 companies. Recent investments include: everyday structures. AWS intends to trial Paebbl’s material flood risk. Carbon Neutralization in the construction of one of its European data centers. • Forum Mobility, which provides accessible As part of an independent working group composed zero-tailpipe-emission trucking solutions for drayage in Supporting Policies That Drive Amazon’s carbon"
"neutralization efforts are currently of carbon market experts, scientists, and conservation California, including charging infrastructure and Class Decarbonization focused on three priorities: reducing deforestation, professionals, representatives from Amazon contributed 8 zero-tailpipe-emission electric trucks. Forum Mobility advancing the removal of carbon from the atmosphere to the development of the ABACUS label. It identifies is developing a network of charging depots around Public policy"
"can accelerate the deployment of emerging with nature-based solutions, and scaling up carbon credits that reflect a rigorous set of principles and the Ports of Oakland, Los Angeles, and Long Beach lower-carbon technologies necessary to achieve global removal technologies. Across these areas, Amazon is requirements for quantifying the climate benefits of in California, and Seattle, and Tacoma in Washington decarbonization. A stable regulatory environment using a range of strategies, including"
"direct investment, restoration projects. In 2024, the label was formally state, and along common trucking routes to warehouse supports long-term progress. Our global public policy advance purchase agreements, coalition building, new approved and released by Verra, the mission-driven destinations. Forum Mobility also provided the charging team works with policymakers, multilateral organizations, methodology development, and technological innovation, nonprofit that serves as a leading standards-"
"setter for infrastructure for Amazon’s first electric heavy-duty industry associations, coalitions, and other partners to to scale outcomes and advance carbon credit quality.23 the voluntary carbon market. trucks in our ocean freight operations. accelerate decarbonization by scaling lower-emission Our approach is detailed in our Carbon Neutralization fuels, advancing zero-tailpipe-emission vehicle Scaling Up Carbon Removal Technologies Methodology . • Glacier, an AI and robotics company, uses"
"AI-powered deployment and associated infrastructure, driving the robots to automate sorting recyclable materials and deployment of carbon-free energy, modernizing the grid, Direct air capture (DAC), which chemically scrubs CO₂ from Reducing Deforestation collect real-time data on recycling streams for recycling accelerating lower-carbon technologies, advancing circular the air and then stores it deep underground or uses it in companies and consumer brands. Glacier also supports economy policies,"
"and more. Tropical forests, which cover 45% of the world’s forested applications such as building materials and lower-carbon Amazon in testing new biomaterials in applications areas, play a crucial role in regulating global climate fuels, is an important technology in the fight against where we have more limited sustainability solutions, In 2024, we continued our advocacy for expanding the patterns, according to the International Panel on Climate climate change. Amazon is accelerating and"
"scaling the such as some flexible plastics, and then recycling them. deployment of carbon-free energy and creating pathways Change.24 As a result, mobilizing financing to enable development of DAC solutions by investing in and for corporate procurement of carbon-free energy. We countries to protect their tropical rainforests is a key committing to purchase carbon removal credits produced • Subeca, a company that offers a simple and secure collaborate with organizations such as CEBA, Asia Clean"
"focus of our carbon neutralization and broader by DAC technology. device that uses wireless networks such as LoRaWAN and Energy Coalition (ACEC) and RE-Source to encourage these biodiversity efforts. Amazon Sidewalk to assist Amazon, AWS, and utilities 17 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible"
"Business Practices Waste and Our Progress Reduce food waste by 50% across U.S. Goal Actions and Europe operations by 203025 Circularity Waste Prevention 81M Meals-equivalent donated globally– 85% Landfill diversion rate, a measure We view waste as a defect, aiming to prevent it whenever 60M in the U.S. and 21M in Europe of the waste we successfully divert possible. We implement a variety of waste prevention to recycling and what is sent to efforts across Amazon—from our retail sites and"
"incineration with energy recovery and grocery stores to our corporate offices, data centers, and away from landfill, which was up from Our Approach In 2024, our top repair categories included laptops, fulfillment centers. This includes a focus on improving 84% in 2023 and 82% in 202226 tablets, robotic vacuums, and espresso machines. product handling to reduce damage and supporting customers in setting up, using, and repairing the products Our waste hierarchy sets our guiding principles for •"
"Continuing our product lifecycle support: This program preventing, managing, and reducing waste. Amazon they buy. We also integrate circular practices to extend provides customers with the support needed to use the 83% Waste diversion rate, a measure of the the useful life of products and assets, and when products waste that we successfully divert to has programs in place to optimize our inventory, reduce products they purchased, including how to configure recycling or other material-recovery"
"are returned, we assess, grade, and repair them as needed food surplus, and source materials that help us prevent products or repair tips when necessary. In 2024, we processes (such as composting) and to be relisted, resold, or redistributed. waste from the start. Where possible, we look for ways avoided 14 million product returns with this program, away from landfill and incineration, to reduce, reuse, recycle, or compost these materials. a 25% increase compared to 2023. which was up from 82%"
"in 2023 Preventing Product Waste in Our When waste is unavoidable, our priority is to recycle it, and 79% in 2022 Fulfillment Centers • Reselling customer returns: We carefully inspect minimizing what is sent to landfill and incineration. products that are returned at our Amazon return centers. When it comes to product inventory, Amazon prioritizes We work hard to make it easy for customers to discover If a returned product meets Amazon’s high bar for sale waste prevention by enabling customers"
"to make more 68M Retail sellers’ items sold on our products they love. They usually do, but as with any as new, we relist it. informed shopping decisions—which can reduce customer Amazon Outlet storefront retailer, sometimes customers want to return something returns—and lowering the number of products damaged • Redistributing through Amazon Resale: Items that are that they purchased from us. When returns happen, in handling. Specifically, our efforts include: ineligible for relisting as new are"
"graded, tested, and Amazon strives to give items a second life through resale, donation, or recycling—in that order of priority. Returned assessed to be offered on Amazon Resale . Amazon 14M Returns avoided, a 25% increase • Reducing overstock: Before removing overstock from Resale offers a range of high-quality, used products compared to 2023 items undergo inspection to determine whether they our inventory, we try to sell it at a discount on Amazon at reduced prices, from tech like computers,"
"tablets, can be resold. We aim to donate items that cannot be Outlet . If we can’t, we return the inventory to vendors Amazon devices, unlocked phones, and TVs to home sold, but when they are not suitable for sale, resale, or or sell it to wholesalers to be offered on secondary essentials like furniture, kitchen appliances, lawn and donation, often due to damage or expiration, we prioritize markets. In 2024, we sold 68 million retail sellers’ items 166M+ Items we donated or supported our garden"
"care, home improvement tools, and pet supplies. their recycling. on Amazon Outlet. sellers in donating worldwide Customers see a condition (e.g., Like New, Very Good, We know that avoiding waste is an ongoing process Good, or Acceptable) and reason(s) for the condition • Reducing damage: We take proactive measures to and that we cannot do it on our own. We engage with (e.g., missing a user manual or cosmetic damage), safeguard products from damage during transportation suppliers to reduce waste"
"related to our products, partner and handling. In 2024, we reduced the percentage of allowing them to make an informed purchasing decision. 16% Of spare parts sourced by AWS were with other organizations to scale efforts to transition to a from its own reuse inventory damaged items within Amazon’s operations by 29% • Providing ReCommerce Services for independent more circular economy, and work with local municipalities compared to 2023. third-party sellers: Through our ReCommerce Services, to"
"improve recycling infrastructure where we can. we offer resale, liquidation, and donation services to • Expanding our repair programs: When possible, we independent third-party sellers. We grade sellers’ send damaged products for repair to enable resale. 18 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact"
"Responsible Business Practices returned items and enable recovery through programs In 2024, Whole Foods Market launched a program with enable easier maintenance, repairs, and adaptability for components, AWS is also exploring ways that better such as grade and resell or donation. In 2024, we Too Good To Go , a social impact company that has different operational needs. This results in more resilient design can help extend the lifespan of hardware and helped sellers resell or donate nearly 391"
"million of created a marketplace app for surplus food. Through infrastructure where components can be efficiently equipment, further scale repair and reuse, and increase their items in the U.S. and Europe. this program, Too Good To Go’s app enables customers reused, repaired, or reconfigured, rather than replaced. materials recovery at end of use. to access high-quality food at discounted prices at 536 • Donation: We donate items that are safe to use but • Reducing single-use items and"
"materials: We take a • Operate longer: AWS seeks to use equipment for as Whole Foods Market stores across the U.S. Whole Foods that remain in our inventory if we are unable to repair systematic approach to reducing single-use materials long as operationally efficient. AWS prioritizes keeping Market diverted an equivalent of 636,000 meals from or resell them. In 2024, we donated or supported our across our operations. Cross-functional working groups functional drives in use for as long as"
"possible, avoiding waste in the U.S. as part of this effort in 2024, and we sellers in donating over 166 million items worldwide. collaborate to identify replacement opportunities and early retirement of healthy and working hard drives. are expanding this service to Amazon Fresh locations in source more environmentally efficient, lower-waste This helps AWS power fewer racks with optimized the U.S. Additionally, we maintain strong relationships Learn more about our efforts to provide more"
"sustainable solutions that meet our operating requirements. We performance, replace aging hardware, and save water with food charities across our grocery stores, fulfillment products and optimize packaging also use a detailed waste stream analysis to evaluate and energy. As a result, AWS only needs to send centers, and other retail sites to support ongoing the environmental impact of single-use materials and broken drives for recycling, avoiding early retirement Preventing Food Waste in Grocery"
"Stores and donation programs for surplus food. prioritize circular solutions. In 2024, we expanded the of healthy and working hard drives on the same rack. Distribution Centers When food cannot be donated or offered to customers use of universal plastic pallets and GoCarts (a reusable Since 2023, AWS has avoided the purchase of more Food waste represents lost natural resources and nutrition at a discounted price at Amazon Fresh and Whole Foods cart system that replaces pallets and cardboard than"
"500,000 new hard drives, reducing the associated and is a significant contributor of greenhouse gas Market stores, we aim to divert it via organic waste containers) and avoided the use of 85 million wood carbon footprint, costs, and waste. emissions.27 That’s why Amazon has set a goal to reduce treatment programs, such as composting. In 2024, we pallets. Across our corporate offices, we are increasingly • Recover more: AWS aims to continually improve repair, food waste by 50% by 2030 across our"
"U.S. and Europe continued to implement and expand these efforts at 612 transitioning away from single-use cutlery, plates, and reuse, and recycling practices to recover more value operations. We prioritize reducing surplus inventory, and locations and diverted 108,300 tons of food waste. cups and replacing them with reusable alternatives. from decommissioned assets. AWS uses Amazon’s when that is not possible, we focus on donation to reduce Learn more about how we support food donations, •"
"Extending asset life through reuse and donations: We re:Cycle Reverse Logistics hubs to assess, repair, and waste generated. In 2024, the equivalent of 81 million delivery, and distribution have established programs and built tools to enable the recirculate used equipment into inventory or sell it to meals were donated globally—60 million in the U.S. and repurposing, donation, and responsible management third parties for reuse. To drive circularity and increase 21 million in Europe. Any"
"remaining food waste follows Preventing Office and Operational Material of unused assets across Amazon. These programs and landfill diversion, AWS sends racks to these hubs for the hierarchy and as much is diverted to organic waste Waste in Buildings tools facilitate the storage, tracking, and transfer of idle secure decommissioning of the hardware in the racks treatment as possible. assets between Amazon sites, as well as coordination before recirculation into AWS inventory, resale into the To"
"run our operations, we use operational materials and We continue to explore new ways of reducing food loss and with charities interested in items no longer used by secondary market, or recycling. In 2024, 11.5 million equipment such as packaging to transport products waste as we work toward our 2030 goal. To continue driving our teams. In 2024, we repurposed 310,000 assets and components were sold on the secondary market through between fulfillment centers, pallets to move products progress at"
"scale, Amazon Fresh and Whole Foods Market materials from these programs. our re:Cycle Reverse Logistics hubs. Additionally, these within fulfillment centers, office furniture, storage racks, became members of the U.S. Food Waste Pact , a joint reverse logistics hubs have enabled AWS to source 16% electronic equipment, and conveyor systems. We aim to Preventing Hardware and Server Waste in initiative between ReFED and World Wildlife Fund. In joining of spare parts from its own reuse inventory,"
"abating prevent the waste associated with these materials and Data Centers this national agreement, we are accelerating progress 110,000 tons of carbon emissions by avoiding purchase equipment through the following methods: toward our goals under a proven framework. This year, we of new parts. In October 2024, Amazon announced an In 2024, AWS enhanced its circular economy strategy, actively contributed food waste data to ReFED for inclusion • Implementing circular design practices: We focus on"
"expansion of the re:Cycle Ireland Hub to continue which focuses on three core pillars: in the U.S. Food Waste Pact’s “Progress In Reducing Food developing modular equipment and components that scaling this program. In 2024, the facility also earned Waste: A Data Report from the Pacific Coast Food Waste enhance operational efficiency while extending the • Design better: AWS unlocks its greatest potential for UL Solutions’ highest Zero Waste certification (Platinum Commitment and the U.S. Food"
"Waste Pact” as part of useful life of assets. We use innovative design principles circularity through better design practices—including level) by diverting 100% of processed equipment from our commitment. This collaboration supports our ongoing to create versatile equipment that can be easily avoiding excess materials, enabling repair and reuse, and landfills, including 99% through reuse by AWS, resale efforts to optimize inventory management and prioritize repurposed for multiple uses, reducing"
"material waste integrating recycled content from the start. In addition into the secondary market, or recycling, and 1% to sustainable practices in food retail. and potential losses. This modular approach can also to using 30% recycled or bio-based plastics in server rack Thermal Processing with Energy Recovery. 19 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health"
"and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices Waste Diversion • Conducting frequent waste characterization audits: How We Manage and Prevent We seek to enhance waste management through Prevent Waste We improve product and packaging design, When we are unable to prevent waste, we seek to divert comprehensive characterization programs on unknown/ inventory management, materials sourcing, it to the highest recovery option available. In doing so, mixed waste"
"materials that limit recyclability. These and resource use to help prevent waste we reduce the amount of waste sent to landfills and assessments provide crucial insights into waste streams This hierarchy is an industry framework that guides from the start. our approach to managing and preventing waste. incineration. Our retail operations cover our largest and inform priority areas for recycling improvements. Reduce It moves from the most preferred option at the top materials footprint, with"
"transportation and handling to the least preferred at the bottom. Materials in this We pursue avenues such as increased product • Collaborating with service providers and industry materials (such as cardboard, plastic, pallets, racks, totes, hierarchy may be recycled, reclaimed, or otherwise durability and resale to reduce waste. We also experts to scale innovative solutions: etc.) representing our main waste streams. Cardboard reused in some way and thus, may not end up as work to prevent waste"
"generation by helping waste in landfills. We use this framework to better customers make informed decisions, which and wood represent 65% of Amazon’s operational waste − Hard-to-recycle materials: We actively work to manage our waste, pursuing opportunities that are reduces product returns, and offer several footprint, and almost 100% is recycled. develop solutions for hard-to-recycle materials more preferred before moving down the hierarchy. ways for them to support product circularity. through"
"industry collaborations and innovative We track our waste diversion rate to measure progress Reuse pilots. In 2024, we collaborated with UPM Raflatac’s in waste management efforts. This metric reflects waste We repair, repurpose, and donate RafCycle service to launch a recycling solution for diverted from landfills and incineration through recycling, usable items where possible. the paper backing from our adhesive labels used composting, and other material recovery processes. In Waste throughout"
"operations across our North American 2024, we achieved an 83% diversion rate, up from 82% in fulfillment sites. It is also in place in several of our 2023 and 79% in 2022. European facilities. Implementing this solution 83% Recycle We also measure our landfill diversion rate, which increased recycling of this material by 16% compared We recycle and compost to recover tracks materials diverted from landfill via recycling and to 2023. We plan to scale it further across our North Waste raw"
"materials where possible, including 85% incineration with energy recovery. In 2024, our landfill American operations in the future. Diversion Rate food waste. diversion rate was 85%, up from 84% in 2023 and 82% − Waste sortation: We engage with waste technology in 2022. Landfill companies developing artificial intelligence (AI) and Diversion Rate 2% Incineration with Energy Recovery Our progress is driven by four focus areas: computer vision solutions to improve waste sortation Where prevention,"
"reduction, reuse, and avoid contamination of different waste streams, Incineration with or recycling are not possible, we target • Establishing on-site materials separation and which can block recycling efforts. One example is our Energy Recovery energy recovery. recovery programs: We offer comprehensive employee investment in the AI and robotics company Glacier training and clear sorting guidelines in an effort to through The Climate Pledge Fund. In 2024, we Landfill and Incineration maximize"
"waste separation potential. Our systems are worked with Glacier to test its AI-enabled waste without Energy Recovery designed to separate and consolidate materials into their sorting technology for contamination monitoring 15% Both landfill and incineration without energy respective collection locations to optimize pick up and in cardboard streams, to drive optimal recycling of recovery are disposal methods strictly used recycling by our service providers. cardboard waste at Amazon fulfillment"
"centers, and Landfill and Incineration as a last resort for waste that is either without Energy Recovery ineligible for or cannot be diverted to better the identification of newly developed bio-based • Working with specialized waste service providers that recovery pathways.* packaging materials, to enable future sortation of offer recycling and recovery solutions: We aim to select these materials from mixed streams. service providers that prioritize recycling over landfill *For example, some"
"regulated waste streams, like and incineration, and we have established contractual hazardous waste and medical waste, may be ineligible for recovery pathways, due to risks to human health requirements for waste diversion and data reporting to and the environment. support our overall waste management objectives. 20 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health"
"and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices Packaging household recyclable materials. Many products can Nestlé, Unilever, and SC Johnson to advance sustainable be shipped safely without protection from additional e-commerce packaging. These partnerships focused on Actions Amazon delivery bags or boxes, which is the intention of identifying opportunities to reduce packaging complexity our Ships in Product Packaging program . Through this and eliminate"
"unnecessary materials, supporting shared program, we deliver eligible items in the manufacturers’ goals around environmental responsibility and innovation. original packaging without supplemental Amazon delivery In 2024, we partnered with SC Johnson to redesign its 12% Of packages globally shipped Our Approach packaging, allowing us to avoid unnecessary material use Method body wash packaging to make it eligible for without additional Amazon packaging as part of the Ships in and reduce the"
"weight of deliveries. the Ships in Product Packaging program. The redesign Product Packaging program28, 29 Amazon delivers millions of packages every day, and we reduced the number of packaging components from three For a product to qualify for Ships in Product Packaging, prioritize getting orders into the hands of our customers to one, eliminating secondary plastic packaging in the it must first meet our standards for safety and customer as quickly, safely, and with the least amount of"
"packaging process. The redesign also helped decrease the overall experience. We continually work to increase the number possible. Using a science-based approach, we strive to packaging volume by 63%. Nearly Unique products certified for of eligible products that can be shipped through this 18M the Ships in Product Packaging provide right-sized, recyclable, and scalable packaging program, including some of the most complex products to Optimize program and shipped to solutions that reduce waste."
"customers, with nearly 2 million transport—such as TVs, appliances, and furniture. In 2024, new products becoming certified Our packaging strategy is guided by ongoing learning and 12% of Amazon packages globally were shipped without We strive to keep our packaging lightweight and minimal innovation, and rooted in four pillars: additional packaging, the same as for 2023. Since 2020, while ensuring deliveries reach customers undamaged. over 6 billion shipments have been delivered with only their"
"Lighter, more flexible, and right-sized packaging reduces • Avoid: We avoid additional packaging whenever possible 37% Of shipments in North original packaging and a shipping label in North America delivery emissions per package by using less material America contained single-use by shipping products in their original packaging. and Europe. This progress reflects our continued efforts and taking up less space in delivery vehicles, which plastic delivery packaging, an to expand product"
"eligibility through identifying new improvement from 65% in 2023 • Optimize: When we need to use supplemental enables us to make more deliveries with fewer trucks. qualifying products; collaborating with selling partners packaging, we prioritize lighter, right-sized options When possible, Amazon uses lightweight packaging by to test and design new packaging; and implementing our and use artificial intelligence (AI) to identify additional prioritizing flexible paper bags and envelopes. In the"
"U.S. regionalization approach, which shortens delivery routes optimization opportunities. and Europe, these flexible options are up to 90% lighter 134M Single-use plastic bags avoided and lessens the potential risk of damage, where possible. from automated packaging than similar-sized, rigid cardboard boxes, and since 2015, • Transform: We prioritize materials that are household machines across North America we have avoided 4.2 million metric tons of packaging In February 2024, we allowed"
"Fulfillment by Amazon sellers fulfillment centers recyclable and reduce single-use plastic packaging. materials in North America and Europe. to self-enroll in Ships in Product Packaging program in • Innovate: We work across the public and private North America and Europe, in line with Amazon’s own We collaborate with organizations throughout our value sectors to create and scale more sustainable packaging retail practices. This led to nearly 2 million new seller chain to accelerate the creation"
"of optimized packaging 4.2M Metric tons of packaging solutions and improve recycling infrastructure globally. products becoming certified to ship in their own product solutions. For example, Amazon collaborated with Mondi , materials avoided since 2015 packaging in North America and Europe through seller a leading innovator of more sustainable packaging and engagement, machine learning, and product testing in Our Progress paper products, to develop a fully paper-based, recyclable 2024. In total,"
"nearly 18 million unique products qualified mailer with a protective paper lining, which scaled across 16.4% Reduction in single-use plastic and were shipped to customers in 2024 in North America our European operations in 2024. The newly designed delivery packaging globally and Europe. Avoid envelope provides an alternative to plastic-based bubble wrap and can offer protection for a single product or As this program expands, we are creating incentives When it comes to packaging, we start with"
"protecting in certain regions to shift to packageless delivery and multiple items. the product to ensure it arrives undamaged. From there, working with others to improve packaging. In 2024, we find ways to use less packaging, while prioritizing Amazon collaborated with leading brands including 21 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive"
"Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices We also utilize AI machine learning to determine the We also consider localized, country-specific challenges Amazon 2024 Delivery Packaging safest and most efficient packaging for the hundreds of and how to solve them as part of our ongoing approach to by Type and Region millions of products we sell and the near-infinite number reduce the use of single-use plastics in favor of recyclable of order combinations possible. This includes an"
"AI model materials. We are continuing to extend these efforts that analyzes a variety of product features, including to shipments from Brazil, Egypt, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, Packaging Types shape and durability as well as customer feedback, to Singapore, South Africa, and the United Arab Emirates. determine the optimal packaging for different shipments. Where we cannot yet eliminate single-use plastic, we are working to increase the percentage of recycled content in Ships in Product Flexibles"
"Cardboard boxes Transform Packaging Plastic or Paper our plastic consumables. We also work with suppliers to incorporate more Amazon is working to transform our delivery packaging post-consumer materials in our paper-based packaging by reducing our use of single-use plastic packaging in suite. For example, we are working with several packaging favor of household-recyclable alternatives. Our packaging Global Breakdown suppliers in North America and Europe that use 100% engineers have been"
"researching and experimenting for recycled content. The rest of our paper is sourced based years to identify alternative packaging solutions that are 2024 12% 50% 38% on paper grade and performance needs, prioritizing local easier for customers to recycle at home. In finding and sourcing where possible. applying these solutions, we can systematically reduce 2023 12% 50% 38% our use of single-use plastic. In addition, we are further supporting the circular economy by increasing the use of"
"Breakdown by Region Increasing the Recyclability of post-consumer recycled content in our delivery packaging. Device Packaging Europe* Through these efforts, we have avoided 152,062 metric Amazon’s strategy to optimize and increase the tons of single-use plastic globally since 2020. In 2024, 2024 10% 49% 41% recyclability of packaging extends to our products and we reduced our total plastic packaging globally by devices. We are committed to increasing our use of 16.4%, from 88,698 metric tons in"
"2023 to 74,137 metric recyclable device packaging and finding recyclable solutions 2023 9% 47% 44% tons in 2024. This progress stems from reductions in for items that require additional protection during shipping. Learn more about our approach to product and product single-use plastics products at our biggest fulfillment North America packaging design sites, including the removal of 100% of plastic air pillows from delivery packaging at all North American 2024 13% 50% 37% fulfillment centers and"
"an overall increase in our use of Innovate 2023 13% 51% 36% paper packaging solutions. We also continue to retrofit our automated packing machines to create We work with industry peers and collaborators to made-to-fit paper bags across fulfillment centers in the Rest of World accelerate the innovation and deployment of more U.S. and Europe. In North America in 2024, we avoided sustainable packaging solutions, such as our work with 134 million plastic bags, and 56% of fulfillment centers 2024 6%"
"58% 35% the Sustainable Packaging Coalition and The Recycling in North America did not ship plastic delivery packaging. Partnership. These collaborations improve and scale As a result, we saw a significant year-over-year decrease 2023 8% 53% 39% recycling infrastructure, design new materials, and in the number of shipments that contained single-use discover ways of recycling them. plastic delivery packaging in North America, from 65% of *Amazon has removed single-use plastic delivery packaging"
"from its European distribution network. shipments in 2023 to 37% in 2024. 22 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices Single-Use Plastic Packaging by Region* We are developing new, circular plastic packaging In addition, through the Amazon Sustainability alternatives—especially"
"for hard-to-recover and recycle Accelerator , we support startups tackling some of plastic materials—that can be collected, sorted, recycled, the world’s biggest sustainability challenges. In 2024, Single-Use Plastic Packaging Used (MT) and ultimately returned to the value chain for new uses. we collaborated with two startups focused on reusable Progress in this work means rethinking the plastics value delivery packaging—Hipli and RE-ZIP —to trial their Region 2023 2024 % Change YoY chain,"
"toward a lower-carbon, circular process that can be innovative technologies with Amazon across Europe. Europe 877 894 1.9% scaled to meet the needs of our business and industry. We are currently focused on: North America 83,513 68,679 -17.8% • Testing: In 2024, we began early-stage testing on Rest of World 4,308 4,564 5.9% bio-based bags made from organic sources with Amazon Fresh in Spain . These bio-based bags have the best Global Total 88,698 74,137 -16.4% attributes of conventional plastic"
"and paper, in that they are easily recyclable, biodegradable, lightweight, and have both water and oxygen barriers. Through this Single-Use Plastic Packaging Avoided since 2020 (MT) testing, we confirmed that these bio-based bags can Region 2023 2024 % Change YoY be used for several harder-to-recycle, fossil fuel-based plastic applications. We also collaborated with Novamont Europe 14,600 20,660 42% to test a biopolymer derived from starch and vegetable oils, called Mater-Bi. North America"
"41,600 90,932 119% • Sorting: We are engaging with Glacier to use the Rest of World 24,300 40,470 67% company’s AI-powered robots for sorting recyclables. Global Total 80,500 152,062 89% This will help us determine if bio-based bags can be identified in mixed-material waste streams. • Recycling: We developed a novel recycling technology % Outbound Shipments That Contain Plastic in collaboration with the U.S. Department of Energy’s Region 2023 2024 % Change YoY BOTTLE Consortium that can break"
"down both bio- and fossil fuel-based materials with ester bonds, allowing us Europe 0% 0% 0% to keep both in circulation.30 North America 65% 37% -28% We recognize the significant investments needed to fund early-stage innovations, which is why we collaborate Rest of World 14% 16% 1% with those developing lower-carbon and lower-waste Global Total 45% 26% -18% materials and improve recycling infrastructure around the world. For example, Shorr Packaging joined The Climate *The scope of these"
"metrics includes inbound prep packaging, which includes Pledge in 2024, the first of our cardboard suppliers to do some plastic, as well as outbound delivery packaging. In Europe, we have so, while the packaging material provider Pregis became eliminated plastic from outbound delivery packaging. our first supplier to obtain Amazon-provided renewable Lightweight, protective paper helps us to create custom, right-sized packages. energy credits to support the decarbonization of its converting"
"operations. 23 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices Water cooling conditions. The system also helps enable our Our Progress AWS will be water positive by 2030, direct evaporative cooling systems to meet generative AI Goal returning more water to communities demands without"
"increasing water use per kWh. than it uses in its direct operations31 Water Positive in Data Centers In 2024, AWS reduced cooling water needs by 946 million liters in North America. Partially enabled through In 2022, AWS announced its commitment to being water Our Approach improved server chip technology that can operate at higher 53% Of the way toward meeting its water positive by 2030. To meet this goal, AWS is focused on temperatures, AWS also uses cloud technologies to monitor positive goal"
"improving liters per kilowatt-hour (L/kWh) water use real-time water usage and automatically flag leaks for Amazon aims to be a good water steward in every effectiveness (WUE), using more sustainable sources, and operators to resolve. way we operate, including cooling servers in data delivering water replenishment. In 2024, AWS was 53% of centers, preparing food in grocery stores, and providing the way toward meeting its water positive by 2030 goal, The implementation of these new technologies"
"contributed Amazon will return more water to sanitation for associates in our buildings. Climate up from 41% in 2023. Progress is calculated using AWS’s to AWS’s global data center WUE of 0.15 liters of water per Goal communities than it uses in direct change, population growth, and economic development Water Positive Methodology . kilowatt-hour (L/kWh) in 2024—a 17% improvement from operations across India by 2027 are increasing global water demand and affecting 2023 and a 40% improvement since"
"2021. water availability in many regions of our operations. As Reduce a result, responsible and efficient water management AWS Water Use Effectiveness Amazon set this goal in December 2024 and will begin is an important part of Amazon’s overall sustainability Amazon is continually working to optimize water reporting progress in our 2025 Sustainability Report strategy. Amazon has public commitments to return % Change consumption and reduce the amount of incoming water 2021 2022 2023 2024 from"
"2023 more water to communities than we use in AWS direct we use. Within our direct operations, reduction efforts operations globally by 2030, and in the direct operations focus on increasing operational efficiency and resilience Water use of all Amazon facilities in India by 2027. To meet these effectiveness 0.25 0.19 0.18 0.15 17% to limit water loss and enhance water conservation. We commitments and support a more resilient and (L/kWh) Actions improve water use efficiency across Amazon"
"operations water-secure future, we are working to reduce our global by scaling real-time leak detection, innovative treatment water footprint and prioritizing action to address water Amazon Grocery, Logistics, and technologies, and water-conserving fixtures. scarcity, access, and quality in the most high-risk Corporate Buildings 0.15 L/kWh water use effectiveness (WUE) regions of our operations. We drive progress through AWS Data Centers for Amazon’s data centers, a 17% Amazon seeks to implement"
"water efficiency best the following strategies: improvement from 2023 Amazon seeks to minimize water use across our global practices across our global logistics and grocery • Reduce: We increase our water use efficiency and data centers. Within AWS, global teams deploy water operations, along with our corporate offices. In 2024, reduce local withdrawals by installing water-conserving monitoring technology in data centers to determine where we scaled our global water metering and leak detection"
"measures in buildings and tracking water use in real they need to take action to maintain or improve WUE. program to logistics and Whole Foods Market sites in 23 Water replenishment projects globally invested in by Amazon time to help minimize water loss. highest-risk regions. Through this program, “smart” In 2024, AWS began implementing integrated liquid meters send data to a common dashboard and • Reuse: We strive to source water from more sustainable cooling components to more efficiently"
"manage Amazon-developed leak detection software, allowing our sources, such as recycled and/or harvested rainwater, to artificial intelligence (AI) workloads at new data centers. engineering teams to respond to suspected leaks remotely 4.3B minimize demands on public water supplies. These novel solutions combine air and liquid cooling Liters of water returned to and in real time. Additionally, this program enables our communities from active replenishment capabilities for both powerful AI"
"chipsets and AWS’s teams to analyze changes in water use patterns under projects, with more than 7 billion • Replenish: We invest in water replenishment projects network switches and storage servers. This flexible design different circumstances, such as fluctuations in seasonal liters of total annual contracted that increase community water access, availability, and is expected to reduce mechanical energy consumption replenishment volume for future years demand, to improve forecasting and track"
"the progress of quality by restoring watersheds and bringing clean by up to 46% compared to previous designs during peak our water conservation strategies. water, sanitation, and hygiene services to water-stressed communities. 24 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices We also"
"incorporate water conservation into building roof-collected rainwater to supply restrooms and irrigate Water.org Water & Climate Philanthropic Fund plans. For example, in 2024, we obtained third-party landscaped areas alongside water-conserving plumbing In 2022, Amazon committed $10 million to help certifications for our fulfillment centers in Cairo, Egypt, fixtures to improve water efficiency. Water.org launch the Water.org Water & Climate and Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, assuring water"
"Replenish Philanthropic Fund, which has a goal of deploying $1 savings of 28% and 53%, respectively, as compared to billion to deliver climate-resilient water and sanitation certification baselines. We also reached 90% completion solutions to 100 million people worldwide. By the end of our effort to install low-flow aerators at logistics sites AWS invests in water replenishment projects in the of 2024, Water.org’s investment arm, WaterEquity, in India, which is expected to save 4.6 million"
"liters of communities where we operate. These projects improve had raised nearly $460 million and reached 7.1 million water annually. community water access, availability, and quality by people. With Amazon’s support, Water.org also restoring watersheds and bringing clean water, sanitation, Across our corporate office footprint, we work to reduce empowered 1 million people in India with access to and hygiene services to water-stressed communities. indoor water use and design new buildings to"
"comply safe water and sanitation solutions in 2023 and 2024. By the end of 2024, Amazon had announced 23 water with low-flow design standards. In 2024, we assessed replenishment projects globally. These projects are 7.5 million square feet of corporate office space in expected to return more than 7 billion liters annually to water-stressed regions in Brazil, Egypt, Mexico, Spain, communities once completed. In 2024, these projects South Africa, and the U.S. Based on this assessment, returned 4.3"
"billion liters of water to communities. we installed low-flow faucet aerators at 17 U.S. sites to achieve water savings in line with our standards. We will We expanded water replenishment activities to Chile expand this retrofit program to our other locations in and China in 2024, and funded additional projects in the water-stressed regions in 2025. U.S. and Brazil. These projects included leveraging AI to promote water savings through more responsible irrigation Reuse practices, treating and"
"filtering water through the creation and restoration of wetlands, repairing ecosystems, and In 2024, AWS had 24 data centers using recycled water improving flood management. for cooling and is working to quadruple the number In late 2024, Amazon launched new water replenishment of data centers using recycled water by 2030. AWS projects as we work toward returning more water to has agreements with seven utilities, enabling more communities in India than we use by 2027. Working with than 4 billion"
"liters of fresh water to be preserved for the environmental organization SayTrees, Amazon is community use. As of the end of 2024, five data centers undertaking a comprehensive restoration of two have operational rainwater capture systems in place, which once-vital water sources transformed by urbanization and reduces our demand on community water resources and erosion—Yamare Lake near Bengaluru and Sai Reddy Lake reduces the adverse effects of stormwater runoff, which near Hyderabad. The"
"restoration will include removing is a leading source of water pollution globally. silt and sediment from the lake bottoms, restoring bund In India, Amazon is using on-site sewage treatment plants formations (embankments used to reduce erosion), and at 27 logistics sites to recycle greywater for toilet flushing repairing inlet and outlet structures to enable proper and irrigation, which is expected to save an estimated drainage and regulate water flow. These projects, which 279 million liters of"
"water per year. We also have are specifically focused on regions of highest water stress, Rainwater harvesting “pits” use rainwater to rainwater harvesting systems at fulfillment centers in are expected to increase the combined water volume recharge groundwater at one of Amazon’s fulfillment centers in National Capital Region of Delhi. Sydney and Melbourne, Australia. These facilities use capture potential of the two lakes by more than 571 million liters once completed. 25 Overview Progress"
"Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices Biodiversity especially in regions with sensitive ecosystems. This impact on agriculture. Whole Foods Market has a includes our commitment of $100 million to protect long-standing commitment to organic and regenerative Actions and restore nature through"
"the Right Now Climate agriculture, two approaches that employ climate-smart Fund. Amazon also enhances biodiversity through strategies. In 2024, 34% of all products sold at Whole broader sustainability initiatives. For example, we are Foods Market were organic, and over 61% of all fresh 24 Amazon building sites in investing in nature-based climate solutions that reduce produce sold in 2024 was organic. To further promote Europe, U.S., and India, where Our Approach and remove carbon from the"
"atmosphere as part of on-farm biodiversity, Whole Foods Market joined Mad habitat conditions and site designs are being evaluated The Climate Pledge and in watershed replenishment Agriculture’s Wilding initiative in 2024. This effort to help avoid and minimize Biodiversity, which is defined as the variety of living projects that protect and restore natural fresh water supports the strategic integration of native perennial habitat loss species on Earth and the habitats, ecosystems, and natural"
"sources to support our water positive goals. vegetation planted in and around agricultural fields processes that support them, is declining globally due to enhance farm viability, protect pollinators, improve to land use change, direct exploitation, climate change, soil health, and support water retention. Through this $67.4M Our Progress Disbursed to nature pollution, and the proliferation of invasive species. Since partnership, Mad Agriculture and participating farmers conservation projects"
"across 1970, global wildlife populations have dropped by an are planting and maintaining 113 acres of reconstructed the world through the Right average of 73%, signaling severe stress on the natural prairie, most of which are on farms that supply ingredients Now Climate Fund in the Commodities in Our Supply Chain systems that support life.32 Amazon recognizes the critical to brands we sell, reflecting a shared commitment to past five years importance of biodiversity to the health of the planet,"
"regenerative agriculture and environmental stewardship. The loss of natural habitat due to land conversion for communities, and our business. activities such as agriculture and forestry is one of the Whole Foods Market also supports pollinator health 49K Hectares of land protected Amazon’s approach to biodiversity follows a mitigation primary drivers of biodiversity loss worldwide. Our through its industry-leading Quality Standards . or restored through hierarchy that prioritizes avoidance and"
"reduction of business activities can indirectly affect biodiversity Under the Whole Foods Market Pollinator Health Policy biodiversity and nature-related habitat loss above other actions. We are focusing on three through the production of agricultural commodities for Fresh Produce and Floral, all fresh produce and floral contributions and investments over the past five years areas to help avoid and minimize land use change within used in Amazon’s own-branded products and delivery suppliers must"
"implement an integrated pest management our own operations and enhance biodiversity beyond our packaging. Our strategy to address this focuses on system, which reduces the need for chemical pesticides. business activities: measuring and seeking opportunities to reduce the land In recognition of its ongoing work, Whole Foods Market footprint and the risk of habitat conversion from our was 2024’s top-ranked retailer on Friends of the Earth’s 5 New Right Now Climate Fund • Commodities in our supply"
"chain. We aim to reduce projects added to our portfolio agricultural commodity supply chains. Bee Friendly Retailer Scorecard, which ranks retailers on in 2024 deforestation and responsibly source agricultural pollinator protection from pesticides in food and beverage and mineral commodities for our own products and One way we are minimizing impact is by continuing to make supply chains. delivery packaging. progress on Amazon’s responsible sourcing commitments and enhancing them over time. These"
"commitments often Buildings Where We Operate #1 Ranking as top retailer for • Buildings where we operate. We seek to avoid and Whole Foods Market on the aim to achieve leading product certifications, such as those minimize biodiversity loss related to the siting, Friends of the Earth’s Bee provided by the Rainforest Alliance, Forest Stewardship To address potential natural habitat changes associated Friendly Retailer Scorecard construction, and operations of the buildings that Council, and"
"Better Cotton Initiative. with buildings in our retail operations and data centers, we support our businesses. We are beginning to measure are establishing metrics, guidance, and tools that support habitat value at building sites and develop design Within agricultural lands, Whole Foods Market works to best practices for preventing habitat loss and creating standards that prioritize biodiversity enhancement. improve the farms it sources from through promoting and on-site enhancements. At 24"
"building sites across Europe, supporting “climate-smart agriculture”—an approach to • Beyond our value chain. We contribute to nature North America, and India, we are evaluating habitat farming that supports environmental health, including conservation and restoration through collaborative conditions and developing site designs that help avoid and the promotion of biodiversity, while considering both the investments between private and public entities, reduce loss of habitat, such as retaining"
"and adding native impact agriculture has on the climate and the climate’s 26 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices plant varieties and reducing impermeable surfaces. We are Right Now Climate Fund also piloting artificial intelligence and machine learning Prairie Strips tools"
"that can more rapidly appraise on-site biodiversity values, to scale these processes across more buildings. Learn more about our Right Now Climate Fund These tools will support our work to avoid biodiversity loss projects around the world in our interactive map and inform mitigation actions, where needed. Prairie Strips are strategically placed areas of native plants within and along the edges of agricultural fields. These plantings have the potential to attract Beyond Our Value Chain"
"pollinators, improve soil health, and enhance water retention, contributing to a more resilient farm ecosystem. Amazon contributes to preservation and restoration activities that enhance biodiversity and natural habitats Goals beyond our direct business activities, which includes the following: UK Reduce Soil Erosion | Improve Water Quality | Provide Wildlife Habitat • We invest in high-quality nature-based carbon credits Placement such as those that contribute to reducing deforestation at scale"
"in the Amazon rainforest. While primarily aiming to reduce and remove carbon emissions, these Netherlands programs are designed to protect and restore natural Around or In a terrace Alongside through a field channel waterways habitats in sensitive ecological regions in collaboration Germany with local communities. Belgium • We invest in water replenishment projects that restore Width Seed Mix natural fresh water sources, thereby enhancing fresh water availability while improving natural habitats"
"to benefit local communities. 120 Spain feet • The $100 million Right Now Climate Fund supports max. nature conservation and climate resilience in communities around the world. Since 2019, we have disbursed $67.4 million to finance 19 projects across 14 Ireland countries, protecting and restoring 49,000 hectares of land area. In 2024, we expanded our portfolio in four countries with five new community projects. India 30 feet Native grasses min. and flowers Photos by Omar de Kok-Mercado 27"
"Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices Human Rights Our Progress Embedding Human Rights Actions into Our Business Activities We regularly strengthen our policies, programs, and and Decision-Making resources to help ensure that our employees and Updated our Global Human Rights"
"Principles workers everywhere we operate are treated with respect, Our Approach Respect for human rights is everyone’s responsibility at understand their rights, and feel empowered to speak Amazon. We embed this responsibility into our policy and up. As outlined in more detail below, we continuously Adopted guidelines on responsible supplier governance framework and develop resources, guidance, evaluate our operations and value chain, engaging Amazon’s operations impact millions of people"
"worldwide, disengagement and tools to help implement Amazon’s human rights stakeholders to identify, assess, prioritize, and address including employees, suppliers and their workers, strategy. We have a central team that works across the salient human rights risks, specifically those related to customers, and communities. With this reach, we can play company to conduct human rights due diligence and workers, customers, and people who live in communities a critical role in respecting and"
"promoting human rights. integrate human rights considerations into business Hosted BSR’s third annual Tech Against connected to our business. Trafficking Summit decisions. In addition, we strive to embed our human rights We believe every individual deserves to have their principles in employees’ everyday work by offering training fundamental dignity respected. To achieve this, we embed Developing and Maintaining Strong and resources to help drive accountability at all levels. respect for human"
"rights throughout our business activities, Policies and Standards Conducted human rights and environmental due and we work to engage with partners and suppliers that All employees have access to online training on the diligence for 10 businesses across Amazon align with our values. company’s human rights commitments. We also offer Amazon’s Global Human Rights Principles outline modern slavery training, available in seven languages, Amazon is committed to respecting internationally our commitment"
"to embed respect for human rights which helps employees identify warning signs and report recognized human rights as defined by international throughout our business activities. We published an human rights impact assessment (2020), a Twitch human concerns to the appropriate authorities, as well as training standards and frameworks developed by the United update to our Global Human Rights Principles in January rights impact assessment (2023), an Amazon Private on responsible purchasing practices"
"for our sourcing and Nations (UN) and the International Labour Organization 2025 to better align with evolving business needs, Brands human rights saliency assessment (2023), and procurement teams. (ILO), including the UN Universal Declaration of Human international standards, and industry best practices. In a due diligence management systems review of Whole Rights ; the Core Conventions of the ILO ; and the addition, Amazon’s Supply Chain Standards outline our Learn more about our human rights"
"governance Foods Market (2023). ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights expectations for suppliers. In 2024, we expanded our human rights and environmental at Work . Assessing, Prioritizing, In 2024, to mitigate human rights risks that may occur due diligence (HREDD) work to encompass a broader range Our approach is built on five pillars: during supplier disengagement, we adopted responsible and Addressing Risk of key businesses and enterprise segments, including 10 disengagement"
"guidelines. We prioritize working with business units such as AWS, Operations, Stores, Grocery, • Developing and maintaining strong human rights suppliers to encourage remediation whenever possible, We continue to refine our approach to assess, prioritize, and and Corporate Real Estate. Our methodology is grounded policies and standards using disengagement only as a last resort, because address human rights risks across our business activities. in international standards and combines country,"
"sector, terminating business relationships removes the incentive • Embedding human rights into our business activities Our teams work to understand risks, strengthen prevention and product data with internal insights from worker for improvement and can negatively impact workers and decision-making strategies, and integrate human rights and environmental feedback, among other sources. and communities. considerations into everyday business decisions. The results of these HREDD assessments"
"strengthen our • Identifying, assessing, prioritizing, and addressing risk Learn more about how we engage our suppliers In 2020, Amazon conducted an enterprise-wide human understanding of systemic and business-specific risks • Engaging with stakeholders rights saliency assessment to identify salient human rights and inform action plans to mitigate future risks. In 2024, risks under international standards.33 Since then, we we strengthened Amazon Private Brands’ responsible • Improving access to"
"effective grievance mechanisms have conducted an increasing number of business-specific sourcing practices by supporting suppliers in mitigating and remediation due diligence assessments, including an Amazon Devices human rights risks and promoting continuous supply 28 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community"
"Impact Responsible Business Practices chain improvements. Following Amazon Private Brands’ Amazon’s Sustainability Exchange , a free, publicly 2023 Human Rights Saliency Assessment, we prioritized available website offering previously proprietary areas such as chemicals management and fair wages, information to help other companies seeking to make conducting deep-dive assessments including a fair wage progress toward their sustainability goals, includes human benchmarking exercise across"
"targeted sites in Bangladesh. rights as a focus area. Through the Amazon Sustainability We also used supplier feedback collected through Better Exchange, stakeholders can find fundamental steps for Buying to improve sourcing and procurement strategies. establishing a human rights program, case studies that showcase how others are implementing more sustainable Engaging with Stakeholders practices across their operations, and resources and tools to empower businesses to take action. Learn more"
"about Addressing human rights challenges requires collaboration how the Sustainability Exchange supports suppliers in with stakeholders and industry partners who share our advancing decarbonization efforts priorities. Our human rights due diligence strategy includes Improving Access to Effective stakeholder engagement to promote accountability and to engage in collaborations. Grievance Mechanisms and We collaborate with credible and innovative organizations Remediation to help improve working"
"conditions across our supply chain. For example, in 2024, Amazon: We empower and encourage our employees to share their concerns and communicate candidly with us through • Supported the Japan Platform for Migrant Workers employee engagement and communications channels . toward Responsible and Inclusive Society (JP-MIRAI) These include grievance mechanisms and avenues for in launching a Fair and Ethical Recruitment Initiative. effective two-way dialogue with leadership through This initiative"
"aims to advance migrant worker rights platforms like MyVoice, Connections, and the Amazon through stakeholder engagement and specialized Ethics Line. These various channels and processes training programs in the Asia-Pacific region. enable us to review and address suggestions, concerns, • Hosted and sponsored BSR’s third annual Tech Against and grievances. Trafficking Summit , bringing together 162 experts, Beyond our employees, we expect our suppliers to provide including individuals from"
"technology companies, their workers access to effective grievance mechanisms in governments, human rights nonprofits, and those with our supply chain . Amazon works with our suppliers to lived experience, to explore technology-driven solutions help them develop these mechanisms and to support the both for improving supply chain transparency on forced resolution of issues that are reported. labor and accelerating the efforts of local and global anti-trafficking organizations. We also welcome"
"anyone—including employees, contractors, suppliers, customers and community • Facilitated discussions with multiple companies to members—to share concerns directly with us through our discuss ways to protect young workers and eliminate Human Rights and Environmental Complaints Form , child labor in American supply chains. We hosted and sponsored BSR’s third annual Tech Against which is available in 19 languages and dialects and can Trafficking Summit in London. be accessed globally. Learn more"
"about our ethical Learn more about our human rights partnerships and business practices supply chain partnerships 29 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices Responsible support our suppliers, we hosted 20 in-person workshops unethical behavior. A medium-level finding is an"
"issue that across 11 countries, which engaged 718 participants from poses significant risk of harm to workers or communities Actions 351 suppliers. or demonstrates unethical or exploitative behavior. When Supply Chain high-level issues are identified, suppliers must develop corrective action plans to address identified issues as well 3.6K+ Supplier audits including Whole Foods Market Seafood Code as long-term plans to prevent recurrence. As necessary, Amazon-branded products, of Conduct"
"suppliers must also undergo follow-up audits to confirm third-party labor, service, and the sufficient remediation of identified issues. For not-for-resale goods providers In 2024, Whole Foods Market developed its new Seafood across our logistics, warehousing, medium-level issues, we track and confirm meaningful Code of Conduct, which was published in early 2025. The Our Approach and construction supply chain progress toward resolution through corrective action Code establishes clear standards"
"to safeguard the human rights and welfare of workers throughout its global seafood plans, while we monitor low-level issues for continuous supply chain. All Whole Foods Market seafood suppliers— improvement through maintenance audits. With a network of thousands of suppliers around the from vessel owners to processors and distributors—are 5.8K Female workers completed world, we embrace our ability to support safe and healthy expected to follow these standards. The Seafood Code of Risk Management"
"training through i4Equality, working conditions throughout our supply chain. Our Conduct builds on Whole Foods Market’s broader Supplier an Amazon-owned Code of Conduct and is part of the company’s long-term dedicated supply chain engagement teams are focused We seek to identify, assess, and prioritize risk across our capacity-building program mission to promote social responsibility and continuous on building long-term relationships and fostering supply chain through a centralized methodology"
"that for suppliers improvement in its supply chain. ongoing improvement. We engage directly with suppliers combines external data, worker feedback, and audit that support safe working conditions, fair pay, and findings aligning with international standards. This environmental protection in their own businesses. We central methodology allows us to more systematically Nearly Our Progress also collaborate with industry peers that maintain high assess our supply chains to better understand the"
"highest 88K Workers at supplier sites across Asia participated in safe and healthy standards and drive progress through new initiatives. risks to workers. Our approach includes identifying workplace industry programs Assessing Our Suppliers country-specific risks and implementing site-level Amazon’s Supply Chain Standards , available in 23 requirements to build suppliers’ capacity to meet our languages and dialects, detail our expectations for all Supply Chain Standards. For example, in"
"countries Our supplier assessment approach includes auditing suppliers of goods and services for Amazon, including Broadened Amazon Private Brands’ fair wage benchmarking identified as at the highest risk for modern slavery, we our suppliers, working with them when issues arise, and service providers, vendors, selling partners, contractors, program to the apparel sector require eligible suppliers to join Better Work, a program managing supplier risk in Amazon-branded product and"
"subcontractors.34 Products sold in Amazon stores, that collaborates directly with factories, workers, and manufacturing and our global logistics network. as well as products and services provided to us, must their representatives to support greater compliance with be manufactured, produced, or provided in accordance Audits national labor laws and international labor standards.36 Participated in the Harvesting the Future – Cotton in India with these standards. Suppliers are responsible for"
"initiative, a unique multisector collaboration coordinated In countries where Better Work is unavailable or not communicating these standards to their own suppliers. by the Fair Labor Association Supplier audits help us to assess supplier compliance with applicable to a product category, we require participation our Supply Chain Standards, identify issues, and take in an Amazon-managed audit and Amazon’s advisory In 2024, to promote awareness of the Supply Chain corrective actions when needed.35"
"We audit suppliers in services, a tailored supplier-level intervention with Standards, we developed and deployed online trainings four categories: Labor Rights, Ethics, Environment, and Collaborated with the Life and Building Safety (LABS) enhanced oversight to improve working conditions and to 500 suppliers, including a new course on child labor Initiative to support the development of workplace safety Health and Safety. maintain continuous improvement. prevention. Additionally, we made 38"
"third-party online programs in our supply chain trainings covering 14 human rights topics—such as Audit findings are flagged as high-, medium-, or low-level, anti-harassment and responsible recruitment— depending on severity. A high-level finding is an issue accessible for our businesses to offer to their suppliers. that has caused or is likely to cause immediate harm To complement our online training efforts and further to workers or communities or demonstrates egregious 30 Overview Progress"
"Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices Expanding Our Supplier Audit Program Supplier Audits by Risk Ratings38 Supplier Audits by Type37 Medium-Level Findings High-Level Findings In 2024, we strengthened our global human rights risk management by expanding our supplier audit program to 2022"
"2023 202439 Subcategory (manufacturing audits only) (manufacturing audits only) reach more of Amazon’s global logistics network. While 46.6% our audits have traditionally focused on Amazon-branded Maintenance Labor Rights product suppliers, we recognize risks to workers exist Audit 39.9% throughout our supply chain. By broadening our scope to Freedom of Association 0.2% 0.0% 0.2% 0.0% 0.1% 0.0% Initial include third-party labor, service, and not-for-resale goods Audit 13.5% Freely Chosen"
"Employment 2.5% 0.4% 5.6% 1.3% 6.4% 1.0% providers in our logistics, warehousing, and construction supply chain, we demonstrate our commitment to making Verification Humane Treatment 0.2% 0.0% 0.2% 0.0% 0.3% 0.1% Audit human rights risk mitigation central to our logistics Nondiscrimination 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 0.0% business strategy and daily decisions. Given the scale and complexity of our global logistics supply chain, we Subcontractor and Next-Tier Supplier Responsibility 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%"
"0.0% 0.0% 0.0% began by auditing suppliers operating within our facilities, building upon our established processes and tools. Over high- or medium-risk findings in their audits. Remediation Wages and Benefits 40.8% 0.0% 27.1% 0.0% 17.0% 0.0% managers, who are strategically placed globally where the next several years, we plan to expand these audits Worker Grievance/Complaint Mechanism 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Amazon operates, support suppliers in developing corrective to our global"
"transportation supply chain, developing action plans, verify their progress, advise on how to approaches tailored to different businesses and supplier Working Hours 3.8% 0.0% 6.6% 0.0% 8.1% 0.0% mitigate risks going forward, and conduct follow-up categories, to enhance our assessment of third-party audits as needed. Failure to take corrective action can Young Workers 0.1% 0.0% 1.0% 0.0% 0.2% 0.1% service providers’ compliance with Amazon’s Supply result in suppliers losing their ability to"
"conduct business Chain Standards. Ethical Behavior with Amazon. While the remediation varies based on the In 2024, we performed 3,639 audits of suppliers of nature and scope of the issues, we prioritize working with Business Integrity 1.3% 0.1% 3.0% 0.0% 2.9% 0.0% Amazon-branded products, third-party labor, service, suppliers to respond quickly, remove harm, act in the best Transparency 0.4% 0.9% 0.5% 1.8% 0.8% 2.9% and not-for-resale goods providers in our logistics, interests of workers, and"
"commit to preventing similar warehousing, and construction supply chain. Of these, issues in the future. Environment 1,695 audits specifically focused on third-party labor, service, and not-for-resale goods providers in our logistics, Mapping Our Supply Chain Hazardous Substances 0.0% 0.0% 0.1% 0.0% 0.1% 0.0% warehousing, and construction supply chain. These include Pollution Management and Prevention 0.2% 0.0% 0.1% 0.0% 0.1% 0.0% initial audits with new suppliers to our audit program, We work"
"within our supply chain to identify risks and maintenance audits for sites we have already audited and collaborate on systemic issues. Our supplier list and Health and Safety supported, and verification audits to confirm sufficient interactive supply chain map provides details on finished Emergency Preparedness and Response 6.7% 0.7% 11.7% 2.9% 14.1% 3.5% remediation of identified issues. product suppliers of Amazon-branded apparel, consumer electronics, food and beverage, and home goods"
"products. Industrial Hygiene 15.3% 0.0% 8.1% 0.0% 4.2% 0.0% Remediation Recognizing the need for further transparency beyond Machine Safeguarding 0.2% 0.0% 0.3% 0.1% 0.5% 0.1% finished product suppliers, we have been working toward Remediation services are available for all Amazon greater visibility in upstream supply chains. In 2024, we businesses, and required when third-party labor, service, Sanitation, Dormitory, and Canteen 1.0% 0.2% 1.1% 0.4% 0.6% 0.5% began expanding our public supplier"
"list and supply chain and not-for-resale goods providers in our logistics, map to include apparel component suppliers. Updated Occupational Safety 11.9% 0.1% 10.5% 0.1% 8.6% 0.1% warehousing, and construction supply chain have 31 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices yearly,"
"this information provides customers and external We engage and collaborate with relevant stakeholders— Access to Effective Grievance Mechanisms stakeholders visibility into where we source our products. including nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), law We encourage workers across our value chain to voice Our 2024 supplier list included nearly 2,300 finished-product enforcement and other agencies to reinforce and advance their concerns, whether directly to us, through suppliers and component"
"suppliers. our efforts to prevent risk. In 2024, we worked with the supplier-managed tools, products, and systems that we Mekong Club, a nonprofit organization that partners with We share our supplier list to Open Supply Hub (OS Hub) , support, or by connecting our suppliers to third-party the private sector to help prevent modern slavery. The an open supply chain mapping platform used across sectors grievance mechanisms. Mekong Club provided a training series on responsible to increase supply"
"chain transparency and collaboration. recruitment practices for 172 suppliers in Saudi Arabia For example, through our Worker Voice program, we Amazon also serves on OS Hub’s Technical Steering and the United Arab Emirates. As a corporate sponsor of assist suppliers to improve their own internal systems, Committee, a multi-stakeholder group that supports the TAT (Truckers Against Trafficking), we support its mission conduct supplier and worker training, triage cases, and help technical direction"
"and development of the hub. to educate, equip, empower, and mobilize members of improve management of the grievance process. In 2024, we key industries and agencies to combat human trafficking. Advancing Our Supply Chain developed a worker grievance tool for contracted associates Through TAT’s training modules, we have equipped 10,100 at Amazon facilities in Saudi Arabia so that worker voices Commitments active Amazon transportation associates to identify and could be heard by both our suppliers"
"and Amazon. respond to potential instances of human trafficking, including 4,100 associates trained in 2024. We also connected suppliers and service providers with To build a responsible supply chain, we focus where we supplier-managed grievance mechanisms that we support can have influence both directly and indirectly through our We continue to support a systems-change approach to hear directly from workers about their experiences and work with industry and other partners . through industry"
"collaboration. In 2024, Amazon support the resolution of issues from workers’ perspectives. announced participation in the Harvesting the Future Responsible Recruitment and Freely In 2024, we helped connect supplier sites in eight countries – Cotton in India initiative, a multisector collaboration Chosen Employment with third-party grievance mechanisms. One example is coordinated by the Fair Labor Association. This three- the Amader Kotha Helpline, which is a partner of Nirapon, We do not"
"tolerate child labor, involuntary or forced year effort connects Amazon and 23 other global brands an industry-led nonprofit that works with global brands, labor, human trafficking, or modern slavery in any form. with Indian garment and textile producers and several retailers, manufacturers, and other NGOs to create We continually work to improve our efforts to identify, local implementing partners to enhance working and and sustain a culture of workplace safety in factories in prevent, and"
"address the risks of all forms of modern living conditions for cotton farmers and their families Bangladesh. Another example is Ulula, a worker-centric slavery. We work to provide individuals from vulnerable across 32 villages in Madhya Pradesh, India. After a platform that enables workers to participate in surveys and and marginalized communities access to clear, transparent comprehensive scoping study, the brand group focused access a remedy-centered helpline to raise their concerns"
"information on working conditions including pay, hiring on specific efforts to create improvements in the cotton with specialized support in Cambodia, China, India, and practices, and contract terms. sector, such as establishing child labor-free zones, Pakistan. In Japan, we partner with JP-MIRAI to provide initiatives to help ensure legal wages, and monitoring of workers at certain supplier sites access to JP-MIRAI’s In 2024, Amazon strengthened our detection and working conditions. In 2024, we"
"also collaborated with independent grievance mechanism. prevention capabilities; we established robust reporting The Centre for Child Rights and Business to conduct child mechanisms and enhanced monitoring systems designed labor risk assessments for strategic suppliers in the U.S., Our Human Rights and Environmental Complaints to identify and address potential risk indicators quickly and develop risk management tools and training materials Form allows supply chain workers, among others,"
"efficiently. Through our comprehensive awareness program, that reached 344 suppliers, and engage with stakeholders to share concerns directly with us. It is available in 19 we delivered specialized training to over 2,500 security including business representatives, NGOs, and workers to languages and dialects and can be accessed globally. associates across our U.S. operations. In 2025, we plan to strengthen our child labor prevention framework. Complaints are evaluated in accordance with Amazon’s"
"We collaborate with PATH Wellness4All on programs expand this training globally. We also launched training on offering hands-on and e-learning tools to improve Global Human Rights Principles and Supply Chain workplace health and safety. identifying and preventing child labor in supply chains for Learn more about responsible recruitment and Standards . Amazon’s central human rights team our grocery suppliers in 2024. remediation in our Modern Slavery Statement 32 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon"
"and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices manages and tracks the complaints. If a violation is remains a global, cross-industry issue. Wage transparency compliance issues that may not be detected through identified, relevant parties are responsible for collaborating is critical to assist us in addressing wage"
"disparities in our traditional supplier assessments. to implement remedial actions. In 2024, we addressed supply chain, and we support our suppliers in evaluating Amazon also encourages suppliers to evaluate their 100% of the 826 complaints that were filed that year.40 whether workers earn enough to meet their basic needs sustainability-focused practices using the Higg Facility and the needs of their families. Learn more about our grievance mechanisms and other Environmental Module (FEM), which"
"assesses performance ways to report concerns In 2024, Amazon Private Brands expanded its fair and helps prioritize opportunities for improvement wage benchmarking program to the apparel sector across seven environmental impact areas, such as carbon Safe and Healthy Workplaces for worker compensation at Tier 1 factories and Tier 2 emissions, waste, and water. In 2024, 61% of Amazon’s mills in high-risk areas. In Bangladesh, the assessments Private Brands Tier 1 apparel suppliers completed the"
"Everyone has a right to a safe and healthy workplace. enabled suppliers to measure their progress toward fair Higg FEM, to better understand their environmental Across the globe, we work with suppliers and global compensation, as we work closely with our suppliers to performance and practices. organizations to support workers’ rights to safe and support their implementation of Bangladesh’s updated healthy workplaces. For example, our work with Nirapon Learn more about how we engage suppliers to"
"achieve wage regulations. extends beyond grievance mechanisms to foster net-zero carbon emissions by 2040 workplace safety in Bangladesh through monitoring and We also supported the Anker Research Institute, a global Equal Opportunity overall safety oversight and training. research initiative that has developed a methodology for estimating living wages and living incomes around the We are also members of the Life and Building Safety Amazon serves on the advisory board of the Resilience world. By"
"annually updating its publicly available global (LABS) Initiative, an industry-driven program which Fund for Women in Global Value Chains, supporting database of living wage and living income estimates, works to mitigate preventable fire, electrical, and women-led organizations in Southeast Asia through all stakeholders can access information on the cost of structural building safety risks in key apparel-, footwear-, flexible grants for sexual and reproductive health living in regions where"
"products are manufactured or accessories- and home-textile-producing countries. programs or the prevention of gender-based violence. harvested, so that they can make informed decisions, Since 2024, Amazon has actively contributed to the support advocacy efforts, and contribute to the In 2024, we completed the implementation of BSR’s LABS program through participation on the Steering, promotion of decent wages and incomes. In 2025, HERproject, a legacy program now part of RISE Technical, and"
"Communications committees. In addition, we plan to support key suppliers to assess worker (Reimagining Industry to Support Equality), to support through our Building, Electrical, and Fire Safety (BEFS) compensation and develop response plans, including workers in Vietnam with health care training. Further, our program, we go beyond traditional audits in countries enhanced wage training and remediation support. i4Equality training program covers gender inclusion and not covered by Nirapon or"
"LABS. In 2024, Tier 1 supplier the prevention of sexual harassment in the workplace, as sites in Bangladesh, Cambodia, China, India, Indonesia, Environmental Protection well as women’s health, workplace dialogue, and financial Malaysia, and Vietnam participated in safe and healthy literacy for suppliers in China, India, and Sri Lanka. By workplace industry programs including LABS (sites We strive to source products and services that avoid the end of 2024, 5,800 female workers had completed"
"nominated by peer brands), Nirapon, the ILO’s Sustaining unnecessary environmental harm. In 2024, we continued our training in Sri Lanka. Competitive and Responsible Enterprises (SCORE), Social collaboration with the Institute of Public & Environmental Accountability International (SAI)’s TenSquared, and PATH Affairs (IPE), a nonprofit environmental research organization in China that promotes environmental disclosures and Wellness4All, covering nearly 88,000 workers. environmental governance."
"We use IPE’s public database Fair Wages to assist in screening our supplier sites in China for environmental issues. In 2025, we plan to integrate IPE’s i4Equality is an Amazon-owned capacity-building We believe everyone has a right to be paid fairly for the program that helps suppliers’ efforts on gender data with other sources, including grievance mechanisms, to inclusion. work they perform, and ensuring workers receive fair pay strengthen our ability to identify potential environmental 33"
"Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices Sustainable Europe partnered with a third-party consultant in 2023 Our Progress to assess deforestation risks. Findings showed that most Actions soy used in North American Amazon and Whole Foods Products Sourcing Better Materials Market"
"private brand products comes from domestic sources, presenting minimal deforestation risk. In Europe, we made progress increasing the percentage of verified 22 Of 38 responsible materials and Creating more sustainable products starts with sourcing commodities sourcing goals and Deforestation- and Conversion-Free soy in our European raw materials responsibly. We focus on improving the ambitions achieved early supply chains throughout 2024. However, industry-wide materials and sourcing standards"
"for our Amazon Private challenges mean we will likely not be able to achieve our Brands and Whole Foods Market products. Our Approach full commitment without change. To help drive industry- Materials and Agricultural wide change, Amazon Fresh Private Brands in Europe 1.7B+ Items sold that were recognized by certifications in our Climate Commodities Sourcing has joined the Retail Soy Group, demonstrating our Amazon’s commitment to our customers means offering Pledge Friendly program, a 48%"
"ongoing commitment to making sustainable soy the products that align with our customers’ values and increase from 2023 To support the elimination of deforestation linked to market standard. expectations. This includes providing customers with raw materials and ingredients within our global grocery opportunities to discover and purchase more sustainable and commodities supply chains, Amazon has made Amazon became a member of the Roundtable on products. We work across our brands to embed"
"commitments for the use of palm oil, paper and paper Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) in 2024, reinforcing our 2.2M+ Products recognized by sustainability principles and focus on three themes: certifications in our Climate packaging, beef, soy, cocoa, coffee, and tea. We have commitment to source RSPO-certified palm oil in Pledge Friendly program available also established goals and ambitions related to more our Private Brands products. As a result, we achieved • Sourcing better materials: We are"
"improving our to customers for purchase, a 59% sustainable seafood, animal welfare, and apparel for our substantial progress on our goals to source palm oil and its increase from 2023 materials and sourcing standards and continuing to Whole Foods Market and Amazon Private Brands in North derivatives from sources certified to the RSPO supply chain make progress on our sourcing goals for Amazon- and America and Europe. standard, reaching 100% in-scope products for Whole Whole Foods Markets-branded"
"products.41 This entails Foods Market and 97% and 100% for Amazon Private sourcing minerals, commodities, and agricultural 143.8M Customers switched from In 2024, Whole Foods Market and Amazon Private Brands North America and Europe, respectively. a conventional product to products responsibly; using safer chemicals; and Brands achieved 22 of 38 sustainability commitments, a product recognized by incorporating recycled materials where possible. which cover 11 different commodities. Whole Foods"
"We also updated our Amazon Fresh Animal Welfare certifications in our Climate Market achieved 11 sourcing commitments, consistent Position to refine and improve our species-level practices. Pledge Friendly program • Designing more sustainable products: We aim to since 202042 with progress achieved in 2023. Amazon Private Brands reduce the emissions and waste associated with the Learn more about our progress in our Materials and North America and Europe achieved 12 out of 27 goals design,"
"development, and delivery of Amazon- and Agricultural Commodities Sourcing table and ambitions, including our paper sourcing goal for Whole Foods Market-branded products. 29% Of Amazon Private Brands 100% of paper products in North America. We have Designing Amazon Products non-food sales were from • Providing more sustainable shopping choices: We identified opportunities to hit 100% in Europe in 2025. products recognized by More Sustainably create and offer programs that enable our customers"
"Amazon Private Brands North America also increased certifications in our Climate to purchase more sustainable products—both Amazon the percentage of bagged tea products it sourced from Pledge Friendly program and non-Amazon products—across our various Rainforest Alliance, Fairtrade International, or Fair Trade Creating Amazon products to be more sustainable, channels. This includes Climate Pledge Friendly , USA-certified suppliers to 75% in 2024, up from 18% while maintaining high quality and"
"affordability, starts through which customers can discover products that are in 2023. with their initial design and extends throughout their 8 New countries where Climate recognized to have at least one sustainability feature. lifecycle—from shipping, use, and ultimately end of life. Pledge Friendly is available, Amazon remains committed to mitigating deforestation in now serving customers across We consider factors such as raw materials, recyclability, our soy supply chains. Private Brands in"
"North America and 14 international stores and energy efficiency in creating Amazon products. 34 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices Amazon Grocery shrimp farming through more sustainable feed initiatives, Amazon Devices 67% in 2023. We continue to issue over-the-air"
"updates improved delivery efficiency, and by reducing operational so that older devices can also use this feature. We also Amazon seeks to sell high-quality grocery products We aim for each generation of Amazon devices to be more energy use with the installation of solar panels. strive to use best-in-class practices to make our products made with responsibly sourced ingredients and ethical carbon-efficient than the last. One way we do this is by more resilient and last longer, so they do not"
"need to be production practices. At Whole Foods Market, our Amazon Private Brands incorporating recycled materials in our products. By the replaced as often. rigorous Quality Standards ban many ingredients end of 2024, various components across Echo, Fire TV, We continuously work to decarbonize Amazon Private commonly found in other stores, and numerous farming, Fire tablets, and Kindle were made from a majority In 2024, 89% of new devices and accessories featured Brands’ supply chain and"
"product materials and set a ranching, fishing, and manufacturing practices. Amazon of—or all—recycled materials. These included 58% 100% recyclable packaging in the U.S., now at 42 devices high bar for responsible sourcing. As of the end of 2024, Fresh in North America is also one of a few grocery recycled plastic, 100% recycled yarn, 100% recycled in total, but down from 90% in 2023, due to the types we had measured the carbon footprint of 75% of our retailers nationally that offers only cage-"
"free egg aluminum, and 90% recycled magnesium. In 2024, we of devices released in 2024. Some products, large Fire non-food related products. This exercise confirmed the selection. Additionally, Amazon Private Brand shell and also launched 25 new devices and accessories with a TVs for example, require non-recyclable packaging largest carbon abatement opportunities for Amazon liquid eggs must meet cage-free or higher animal welfare SCS Recycled Content or a Carbon Trust certification, components"
"(e.g., expanded polystyrene (EPS) foam) Private Brands guiding our decarbonization efforts standards, and all stand-alone coffee and teas must be which are certifications recognized by our Climate Pledge to meet shipping and storage product protection for 2025 and beyond. In 2024, we also used the Higg certified by the Rainforest Alliance, Fair Trade USA, or Friendly program. requirements. We also introduced redesigned packaging Facility Environmental Module to assess our apparel Fairtrade"
"International. for Echo, Kindle, and Fire TV devices that replaces, on suppliers’ product manufacturing activities and identified While we do not source directly from mine sites and average, 30% of the fiber content with recycled fiber, and In 2024, we measured carbon emissions, soil health, engagement opportunities with more carbon-intensive smelters, we are committed to avoiding the use of has 60% less ink compared to previous packaging. This and water usage of Whole Foods Market and Amazon"
"suppliers, such as fabric mills. minerals that have fueled conflict. We aim to have new packaging also reduces our reliance on virgin tree-based Fresh private label food products. As of the end of 2024, 100% of tin, tungsten, tantalum, and gold smelters and and bleached fibers, resulting in an average of 98% wood We regularly evaluate Amazon Private Brands’ we had measured the carbon footprint of 69% of our refiners in our supply chain conform with a recognized fiber-based materials from"
"responsibly managed forests environmental and responsible sourcing standards, and, in food-related private label products, which allows us to minerals certification program. In addition, we aim to use or recycled sources used in packaging across our device 2024, we enhanced our lower-carbon material standards identify and prioritize carbon abatement projects. Projects more recycled materials when sourcing minerals for our product lines. for new products. We also regularly seek opportunities"
"implemented in 2024 include manure management with electronic products. In 2024, we introduced the new Kindle to collaborate with our suppliers on developing more dairy farmers, increasing climate smart practices on dairy Colorsoft Signature Edition e-reader with a battery made We work with our suppliers to reduce waste throughout sustainable materials. For example, we worked with a farms and with leafy green growers, and enhancing process from 100% recycled cobalt and the Echo Hub Smart Home"
"our supply chain. In 2024, 62 supplier sites achieved UL home textiles supplier to recycle polyester scraps from its electrification and feed efficiency with seafood suppliers. Control Panel with magnets made from 100% recycled Solutions’ Zero Waste to Landfill (ZWTL) certification at production lines to reduce the use of virgin polyester in rare earth elements. We also engage our suppliers and Silver level or better, up from 10 sites when we launched our We also explore ways to improve grocery"
"packaging Amazon Private Brands’ products. We also strive to reduce supply chain partners on responsible mineral sourcing ZWTL program in 2021.43 This includes all final assembly to lower associated emissions, reduce food waste, and packaging for Amazon Private Brands products, including mechanisms and collaborate to advance industry-wide sites and packaging sites worldwide for Echo, Kindle, Ring, divert waste from landfills. Amazon Fresh Private Brands’ by collaborating with suppliers on"
"packaging optimization, progress. Learn more about our approach to avoiding Fire tablets, Fire TV devices, cables, and adapters. and Whole Foods Market’s packaging guidelines help and we prioritize the development of Amazon Private conflict minerals in our Conflict Minerals Report merchants, procurement teams, and suppliers to make Brands products that have certifications recognized by We publish carbon footprints and product more sustainable packaging choices and reduce material our Climate"
"Pledge Friendly program. As of the end of We set a goal to invest in new renewable energy capacity sustainability fact sheets assured by the Carbon Trust use. In 2024, our North America Grocery Private Brands 2024, 29% of Amazon Private Brands product sales were to match the electricity used by our customers’ Echo, for all latest Echo, eero, Ring, Fire TV, and Fire tablet business avoided 8.85 metric tons of plastic. recognized by certifications in this program. In addition, we Fire TV and Ring"
"devices by 2025. By 2022, we had devices on our website to enhance transparency around publish a Formulated Products Restricted Substances List contracted enough renewable energy capacity to match the sustainability of our devices. In 2024, we updated In addition, Whole Foods Market is expanding its carbon and a Packaging Restricted Substance List outlining the our 2025 projections. In 2024, when this capacity was these fact sheets to include carbon footprint comparisons reduction efforts beyond"
"stores to its supply chain and materials we seek to avoid in specific products. Amazon brought online, we matched the electricity used by active against previous-generation models. We also launched working with suppliers to reduce the carbon impact enforces these restricted substances lists with our suppliers Echo, Fire TV and Ring devices—a full year ahead of our first carbon footprint fact sheet in the UK for our of products in its supply chain. In 2024, Whole Foods individually and through"
"industry groups. our goal. By the end of 2024, over 71% of Echo devices latest Echo device. We plan to roll these fact sheets out in Market launched a pilot program to reduce emissions in and Fire TVs featured Low Power Mode, compared to more countries in 2025. 35 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact"
"Responsible Business Practices augmented reality prior to making a purchase. These Providing More Sustainable widgets have helped us reduce returns related to style Number of Products Recognized by Shopping Choices for viewed items by more than 40%. Additionally, our Our Climate Pledge Friendly Program deep learning-based algorithm provides real-time Through our Climate Pledge Friendly program and its best-fit recommendations , allowing shoppers to associated green leaf icon—visible across the"
"online 250K 550K 1.4M+ 2.2M+ find the right fit without needing to try them on first. shopping experience on product display pages and In 2024, our size recommendation system analyzed in search—we highlight products certified as having in 2021 in 2022 in 2023 in 2024 millions of data points every day and generated billions one or more sustainability features. Our pre-owned of size recommendations each month for millions programs enable customers to purchase products of customers across 20"
"locations around the world, international stores. We engaged nearly 272,000 selling secondhand, giving products another life, and our product including the U.S., India, and the UK. partners, including approximately 41,000 new ones in recommendation and augmented reality tools enable 2024, to qualify products that could be recognized by • If products break, we provide options to get them more informed purchasing decisions, improving the certifications in the Climate Pledge Friendly program."
"repaired: We maintain a number of repair and product likelihood that products have a long useful life. Our repair Based on research conducted with the University of support programs that customers can utilize to keep services provide customers a chance to fix products they Southern California Marshall School of Business , Climate their products in functioning order. have already purchased, and our trade-in program allows Pledge Friendly products see a 12.5% sales lift on average customers to"
"exchange items they are looking to replace. • Alternatives to buying new products: We offer within the first year of joining the program.44 We routinely We continue to evolve the shopping experience to make customers the option to purchase previously used assess the certification landscape, adding and developing more sustainable choices even easier. versions of 16% of the products they view. One new certifications in collaboration with trusted third program is Amazon Renewed , which has options"
"parties and reviewing our existing ones against our high Our Climate Pledge Friendly Program that range from refurbished cellphones to espresso bar for transparency, credibility, and customer trust. In Climate Pledge Friendly enables customers to discover 2024, we added three new certifications to support our machines to secondhand books. products with sustainability features through badging international expansion, including Eco Mark, Orgánico • If you’re done with your product, you can trade"
"it and detailed product information across 60 trusted México, and Orgânicos do Brasil. in for a new one: Amazon Trade-In lets customers certifications. These certifications span features from trade in qualifying Amazon or non-Amazon devices Pre-owned, Product Recommendations, recycled materials and organic contents to worker in the U.S., the UK, and Germany for a gift card or well-being and energy efficiency. Repair, and Trade-In promotional discount. All devices that are traded in In 2024, the"
"program continued to grow, with 38.8 million We enable customers to make more sustainable choices by by customers are evaluated and either recycled or customers switching to certified products, bringing the giving used inventory a second chance, providing tools to refurbished for resale. In 2024, customers traded in total to 143.8 million switches since the program launched support customer decision-making, and offering repair and more than 1 million devices. in 2020. In 2024, customers"
"purchased over 1.7 billion trade-in services, when possible. Our programs include: certified units—a 48% increase from 2023. Business • Ensuring customers buy the right products: To enable adoption also expanded in 2024, with 75,200 Amazon customers to find furniture or clothing accessories that Business customers implementing preferential buying complement their style, we provide augmented reality policies for certified products, up from 18,000 in 2022. widgets that allow them to view an item"
"in their home The program expanded to eight new countries in 2024 or even on themselves before physically receiving it. Amazon’s Kindle Colorsoft Signature Edition e-reader, (Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Japan, Mexico, In 2024, customers viewed more than 660,000 our first color Kindle with a recycled cobalt battery. Poland, and Sweden) now serving customers across 14 furniture, clothing, and clothing accessory items in 36 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity"
"Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices Employee bringing average hourly pay to over $22 and average total Invest $1.2B to provide education compensation to over $29 per hour when including the Goal Actions and skills training to over 300,000 value of their elected benefits. This represents an average U.S. employees by 2025 Experience"
"increase of $1.50 per hour from 2023, our largest annual investment in pay to date. $2.2B Incrementally invested in 439K U.S. employees have participated pay for U.S. employees in Amazon invested $653 million in international wage in upskilling programs since we frontline operations roles, increases in 2024. In the UK, we increased compensation announced our Upskilling Pledge bringing average pay to over for frontline operations employees to at least £13.50, in 2019 $22 per hour and average"
"total Our Approach a 9.8% increase since April 2024. Since 2022, we compensation to over $29 per hour including the value invested £550 million in our UK operations employees, of elected benefits representing a 35% increase in hourly pay in just two With more than 1.5 million full- and part-time employees years. In Germany, we increased the starting hourly wage Pay Equity by Country around the globe, we recognize the critical role our for logistics employees to at least €15.00, a 39% increase"
"people play in our success. We strive to prioritize the over the last five years. On average, logistics employees $653M Invested in international Percentage physical, mental, and financial well-being of each Amazon wage increases in Germany receive an annual salary of €39,000 plus Group Country Earned by employee, and take meaningful steps to support their benefits after two years of service. Comparison work lives and their families’ needs. Pay Equity Global 99.9 We strive to be Earth’s best"
"employer, offering more $37M Saved for emergencies by employees through than just competitive wages and inclusive benefits. We Amazon is committed to compensating all employees France 100.0 our paycheck-linked also want our employees to develop their careers with equitably for comparable roles, responsibilities, and skills. savings program Germany 99.7 us, and we offer upskilling opportunities that support We conduct an annual review of employee compensation, individual goals. We listen to"
"employees through a variety including base pay, cash bonuses, and stock shares. Our Women in Jobs Italy 99.4 of feedback channels, using the insights to improve the 2024 review found that women we employ in the U.S. Comparable to Men Nearly In supplementary retirement employee experience and empower them to deliver earned 99.9 cents and globally earned 99.9 cents for Spain 98.8 $1B benefits provided to over for customers. every dollar men earned performing comparable jobs. This 1 million U.S."
"employees review also showed that racial/ethnic minorities in the U.S. UK 99.9 earned 99.4 cents for every dollar that white employees Our Progress U.S. 99.9 earned performing comparable jobs. 100K+ Employees participated Offering Inclusive and in Career Choice, our free Prioritizing Compensation Racial and Ethnic education and skills Minorities in Jobs U.S. 99.4 and Pay Equity Flexible Benefits Comparable to training program White Employees’ We offer a range of competitive benefits that are"
"designed Amazon is one of the largest private employers in the to meet the evolving needs of our employees and eligible U.S. Our pay practices affect our employees and their family members, including their children and domestic families as well as the local economies where they live. partners. Our robust benefits program is structured to In the U.S., more than 800,000 of our employees work prioritize physical and mental health, financial wellness, in hourly frontline operations roles. In 2024,"
"we invested family-building support, and workplace and commuter an incremental $2.2 billion in pay for our employees, 37 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices benefits. We make it easy for employees to discover Additionally, the Amazon Cancer Advocacy, Resources, offering"
"last year through Brightside Financial Care to all Amazon employees utilized these family-building benefits and access benefits through our A to Z app and website, Education, and Support (CARES) program provides 50 U.S. states. Customer fulfillment and transportation in 2024. Employees in 55 other countries can access which 96% of employees visited each month in 2024. In high-touch, one-to-one support for employees and their employees can use Brightside to reduce or consolidate fertility"
"navigation services. In 2024, we also expanded total, we invested $10.8 billion in employee benefits in 59 family members who have been diagnosed. In 2024, debt, and personal coaches can recommend customized our contraception benefit for U.S. employees and countries, a 7% increase over 2023. CARES supported over 4,000 employees in 63 countries. plans to improve financial health. The program provided dependents, allowing them to receive a 12-month supply $27 million worth of financial solutions"
"and resources of birth control pills. For regular full-time and reduced-time employees, We prioritize comprehensive mental health support to hourly employees in 2024, up from nearly $14 million benefits start on their first day of employment and through two key programs. Our Employee Assistance Commuter Benefits in 2023. More than 52,000 employees engaged in this include health care insurance coverage, up to 100% paid Program (EAP) serves nearly 1.7 million employees, their program in 2024, an"
"82% year-over-year increase. In 2024, we offered flexible commuter subsidies in 94% prepartum and postpartum leave, ways to save for the families, and household members across 62 countries, of countries where our employees live or work, regardless future, and health and well-being resources.45 We also offering up to six free counseling sessions per issue Our paycheck-linked savings program helps employees of how employees prefer to get to work—by car, public offer valuable benefits to seasonal"
"employees. annually and a globally accessible therapeutic app for daily prepare for unexpected expenses and achieve personal transportation, or bicycle. In the U.S., employees can also mental health support. It is available 24/7 in most major financial goals through automatic payroll elections. In Health and Well-Being Benefits apply their subsidy toward vanpool, carpool, and rideshare. world languages, 100% confidential, and free of charge. 2024, employees allocated $37 million in emergency"
"Additionally, in 2024, we launched a custom mental health savings and over $5 million toward other financial goals We look at our employees’ full range of health and Investing in Upskilling Programs network through Lyra Health for employees enrolled in through this program. well-being needs and provide medical coverage, mental Amazon health plans. This service provides specialized for Our Employees health and wellness support, and life, disability, and other In 2024, we launched a new home"
"purchase benefit to mental health services on average within two days. types of insurance. Amazon health insurance covered support employees, simplifying the process of obtaining a approximately 1.6 million employees and family members We want Amazon employees to grow meaningful careers, We design our EAP benefits globally as an essential mortgage. We also added a tax-advantaged 529 educational globally in 2024. whether they stay with us or eventually work elsewhere. resource for employees and"
"their families seeking daily savings benefit to assist employees in saving and investing We believe that Amazon is one of the best places for career guidance or support. In 2024, we expanded our wellness for their children’s qualified post-secondary education We integrate whole person care into our approach to development because we are committed to skill building offerings by adding coaching in all countries outside the expenses. We continued to support our employees with promote health and"
"wellness for enrolled members. In no matter an employee’s aspirations. Upskilling is key to U.S. (except Ireland) to help employees manage weight, charitable giving through our Donor-Advised Fund benefit, the U.S., we offer integrated primary care clinics providing our talent development approach, empowering employees nutrition, physical activity, smoking/vaping cessation, and which drove over $26 million in giving during the past year. affordable health care services, including primary to build"
"the skills they need to remain competitive, grow stress reduction.46 U.S. employees enrolled in a health We also offer supplementary retirement benefits in 37 care, behavioral health, and physical therapy. We have their careers, and move into higher-paying roles. These plan, along with their spouses and dependents ages countries and provided nearly $1 billion in such benefits to expanded access to 90-day prescriptions for chronic efforts also assist in building a strong pipeline to fill 15 or"
"older, can access Pelago, a digital clinic offering over 1 million U.S. employees in 2024. non-specialty medications across our pharmacy network, current and future in-demand jobs, both at Amazon and personalized, confidential treatment for substance use. including Amazon Pharmacy, which offers same-day Family-Building Benefits elsewhere. We announced our Upskilling Pledge in 2019, Pelago’s physician-led program combines delivery, automatic price comparisons, and automatic drug and have used our"
"allocated spend of $1.2 billion to invest medication-assisted treatments with health goal-tracking discount card application at checkout. Additionally, all U.S. All U.S. employees enrolled in our self-insured medical in nine U.S. programs to fund education and technical skills tools, an on-demand library, and additional resources. Amazon employees have access to a free 24/7 Medical plans—regardless of their gender, sexual orientation, training for Amazon employees. Since 2019, approximately"
"Separately, Amazon broadened access to evidence- Advice Line from their first day, regardless of medical plan or relationship status—have access to family-building 439,000 employees have participated in the U.S. and based cognitive behavioral therapy and trauma-focused enrollment, allowing them to talk with a registered nurse benefits including in vitro fertilization, egg freezing, 710,000 participated globally. counseling services in additional regions around the world. whenever and wherever"
"they need medical advice. genetic testing, access to fertility specialists, adoption assistance and reimbursement, and more. In the U.S., we Career Choice Financial Benefits Amazon continues to support initiatives to fight cancer. offer up to 20 weeks of paid leave for birthing parents, To that end, members enrolled in a self-insured plan Launched in 2012, Career Choice is our longest-standing Amazon offers a number of benefits that help employees up to six weeks of paid parental leave for"
"partners, and a who are 45 years or older may request a free at-home upskilling program. It offers a variety of training benefits carve out a path to financial security. In 2024, we reduced schedule for up to eight weeks after the birth or colorectal cancer screening kit to increase early detection. for 41 career pathways in 14 countries through our global expanded the financial assistance program we began adoption of a child. Over 30,000 U.S. full-time and hourly 38 Overview Progress Appendix"
"Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices network of 652 educational partners. Over 100,000 access to this resource sooner after joining Amazon, and Connections is our real-time, companywide feedback reminders delivered through daily stand-up meetings, employees worldwide—more than 12% of all eligible"
"this change means that 108,000 more employees mechanism, available in 62 countries and 29 languages. notifications in the A to Z employee app, messages on associates—participated in Career Choice in 2024. By the are now eligible for Career Choice language programs from Each day, employees receive Connections questions via TV screens in our buildings, alerts when logging on to end of 2024, the program had reached nearly 244,000 the first day of employment. Approximately 10% of those their"
"computers, workstation devices, or hand scanners. a workstation, e-learning modules, and wall posters in participants since its launch in 2012. who enroll do so in their first 90 days. Connections improves the employee experience by restrooms, break rooms, and other common areas. We identifying obstacles to meaningful work, surfacing issues also coach small groups of employees on body mechanics, Below are just some of our many Career Choice offerings: In-Demand Skills before they become acute"
"problems, and highlighting proactive wellness, and safety through our Huddles strengths so they do not become missed opportunities. program. Every employee and manager is expected to • Prepaid tuition for associate and bachelor’s degrees in Among our other upskilling programs , our Mechatronics In 2024, employees generated more than 1.7 million participate in annual safety training as well. the U.S. and certificate programs globally. Nearly 1,300 and Robotics Apprenticeship program has trained"
"4,930 Connections responses per day. Connections analyzes employees have earned their bachelor’s degrees since people for careers as electromechanical technicians since Learn more about health and safety at Amazon and aggregates individual response data, sharing it with we launched this offering in the U.S. in 2022. 2019. Graduates of this program, which is registered managers at the team level to maintain confidentiality. We respect the rights to freedom of association and with the U.S."
"Department of Labor, make an average of • 41 industry certifications for in-demand roles in Managers can then take relevant actions for improvement collective bargaining as well as workers’ right to $21,500 per year more than the typical starting wage for technology, health care, transportation, mechanical and to build trust with their teams. join, form, or not to join a labor union or other lawful an entry-level fulfillment center role. In 2024, 100% of industrial systems, and business and"
"administration. We organization of their own selection, without fear of program graduates have found employment in the field. We also host Associate Roundtables, Forums, and Safety continue creating new pathways to in-demand roles for reprisal, intimidation, or harassment. Globally, Amazon Committees. Associate Roundtables offer employees a our employees. Employee Engagement applies or is party to dozens of collective bargaining meaningful opportunity to discuss issues, ask questions, agreements"
"at national, regional, sectoral, and • English and local language learning globally and U.S. and Communications and get immediate feedback from their managers and site enterprise levels. In 2022, we established a European high school completion and GED programs. Nearly leaders. Amazon hosts these meetings around the globe, Works Council, which is composed of workers and 1,700 participating employees have now earned their Amazon uses various communication channels to with their exact cadence"
"varying by business line and site. employer representatives and meets regularly to discuss high school credential GEDs. maintain awareness of and responsiveness to changing In Associate Forums, employees elected by their peers transnational company issues. dynamics, questions, concerns, and ideas across our large • Coaching to support employee career goals no matter meet directly with site management at regular intervals to global workforce. This includes direct engagement, such where they are"
"in their journey. Approximately 35,500 share ideas, concerns, information, and feedback on key as all-Amazon meetings with general managers, employees in the U.S. participated through 2024. decisions that affect the site or the employee experience. stand-up meetings with direct supervisors, and other Topics may include working practices, shift schedules, and one-on-one meetings. Health care roles are in high demand, and Amazon’s employee well-being. At the end of 2024, we had 158 Career Choice"
"is helping associates move into new careers Amazon’s Ethics Line allows employees to voice concerns active Associate Forums. and fill vital positions through our pharmacy technician and anonymously report violations of Amazon’s Code of career pathway. Launched to support both internal Associate Safety Committees provide an opportunity Business Conduct and Ethics . We provide other Amazon hiring needs in Amazon Pharmacy as well as to to describe new safety initiatives and gather employee"
"communications channels as well for employees to fill the growing health care needs in our communities, feedback on relevant safety matters at various express concerns, share feedback, offer suggestions, and this pathway creates meaningful career advancement for sites globally. ask questions. For example, MyVoice—Amazon’s primary our associates. In 2024, 93% of participants completed Voice of the Associate platform—provides a two-way Communication to our employees through safety training the"
"program, and 67% achieved certification. communication channel between our global associates is also foundational to safety excellence. All operations and their site leadership and is integrated within our Career Choice continues to evolve based on employee employees receive safety training on their first day of A to Z app for a user-friendly mobile experience. In 2024, feedback. For example, in 2024, we removed the 90-day employment, and it covers a variety of topics such as We offer a variety"
"of training benefits for employees provided over 945,000 comments in MyVoice. our workforce through Career Choice, one of our waiting period for new employees to enroll in the popular ownership of safety, incident reporting and investigation, upskilling programs. English- and local-language classes. Employees wanted and stop work authority. Training continues with routine 39 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible"
"Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices Health most serious injuries requiring time away from work, has the industries in which we operate, so we’re consistently improved by 65% over the last five years, with innovating and investing in safety measures. In 2025 Actions a 13% reduction year over year. alone, we’ve allocated hundreds of millions of dollars to and Safety invest in technologies,"
"resources, training, and programs Learn more about how Amazon’s safety performance to further our safety efforts. improved year over year 34% Improvement in global operations Recordable Incident Rate (RIR) over Understanding Our Operations Safety in the United States the past five years and over 6% improvement from 2023. RIR includes and Workforce any work-related injury that requires In the U.S., we report our operations data to the Our Approach more than basic first aid treatment49,50"
"Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Globally, our operations network has more than doubled under various industry codes that reflect the kind of work in size since 2019—to more than 1 million operations we do across our network. The majority of our data is With an organization of more than 10,000 safety employees across more than 2,500 sites around the world. reported under the General Warehousing and Storage and 65% Improvement in global operations professionals dedicated to"
"keeping over 1 million Alongside that growth, we’ve worked hard to further build Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) over the Courier and Express Delivery Services codes. As seen on operations employees safe every day, nothing is more and evolve our culture of safety. past five years and 13% improvement the following page, we continued making year-over-year important than ensuring our people’s safety. We know from 2023. LTIR includes any work- that every person is someone’s mother, father, sibling,"
"progress across all categories, building on our meaningful We know that we can’t get safety right without our related injury that requires someone progress over the past five years. employees’ feedback. We’ve created several ways for to take time away from work (the child, or best friend, and that’s why we’ve set an ambitious most serious injuries) employees to give us feedback on how to improve, but goal to become the benchmark of safety excellence across In the U.S. General Warehousing and"
"Storage industry, our one tool we’re especially proud of is Dragonfly. Available all industries in which we operate. RIR improved by 27% over the past five years and 5% year on employees’ devices or at on-site kiosks, Dragonfly over year.47 Within the same sector, LTIR showed a 79% In 2024, we focused on expanding and executing an enables employees to provide suggestions from the palm 7.8M Internal inspections conducted improvement over the past five years and a 9% effective strategy to improve"
"safety across our global globally—a 24% increase from the 6.3 of their hand and notifies their site managers, who then year-over-year reduction. million we conducted in 2023 operations, and it led to meaningful, measurable progress. take appropriate action as needed. In 2024, over 130,000 While we’re encouraged by our continued progress, we employees used Dragonfly to provide suggestions. Some In the U.S. Courier and Express Delivery Services industry, know there’s more work to do, and we’re"
"committed to recommendations include small changes like repositioning we achieved a 50% improvement in our RIR over the past further improvement as we work toward our goal. a package scanner so it isn’t accidentally knocked over, $2B+ Invested in our safety efforts five years and a 16% reduction year over year.48 Our LTIR since 2019 while others involve more complex safety measures like in this sector improved by 74% over the past five years, adding laser motion sensors to alert forklift drivers"
"when with a 25% reduction year over year. Our Progress people are nearby. Whether simple or sophisticated, these These graphs illustrate our progress year over year and improvements make a big difference at scale in creating a to help prevent them from happening in the first place. how we stack up against industry averages calculated by safer, simpler employee experience. Evaluating Our Safety Performance It’s why we rigorously audit and inspect our sites to make the Bureau of Labor Statistics"
"(BLS). The BLS calculates sure our resources and protocols are effectively helping us these averages using data from selected employers Auditing and Inspecting Our Sites We have made meaningful progress on global safety identify, eliminate, or reduce safety hazards. In 2024, we and releases them each November, so the most recent since 2019. Our Recordable Incident Rate (RIR), which conducted 7.8 million inspections globally—a 24% increase averages available are for 2023. We consider both"
"employee feedback and data when encompasses any work-related injury requiring more from the 6.3 million conducted in 2023—and we audited we’re identifying opportunities for improvement and than basic first-aid treatment, has shown measurable We’re continuing to make steady and meaningful 331 sites across Amazon. developing proactive safety measures. This approach improvement. Over the past five years, we’ve seen a 34% progress. That said, we’ve never aspired to be average allows us to not only"
"evaluate overall injury rates These audits and inspections also help us determine how reduction in RIR, with a 6% decrease year over year. Our because when it comes to safety there is no such thing but also analyze the types and frequencies of injuries to address the various types of injuries. The most common Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR), which accounts for the as “good enough.” We want to be the safest company in 40 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging"
"Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices injury in any workplace—across all industries—is what’s Comparative Safety Data called a musculoskeletal disorder (MSD), more commonly known as a strain or sprain. Over the past five years, the Worldwide RIR*: U.S. RIR: U.S. RIR Comparison Data for U.S. RIR Comparison Data for rate of MSD recordable incident"
"rates at Amazon has 34% improved (over the past five years) 31% improved (over the past five years) General Warehousing and Storage Courier and Express Delivery Services improved 32%, but they still make up about 57% of all recordable injuries at Amazon. To continue reducing MSD 11.6 injuries, we’ve devoted considerable resources to improve 8.7 ergonomic conditions as part of our ongoing investments in safety improvements. 7.6 7.0 6.5 6.9 6.7 6.7 6.5 Investing in Safety Improvements 6.3 6.3 6.0"
"6.2 5.7 5.4 5.3 5.1 5.1 Since 2019, we’ve invested more than $2 billion in our 4.7 4.4 safety efforts, including new technologies and programs to protect our employees. A key part of this investment is our focus on reducing MSD injuries. Across our operations network, we are retrofitting our sites with adjustable height workstations and carts, and implementing our 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2023 2022 2023 2024 2023 2022 2023 2024 proprietary, award-winning"
"ErgoPick technology to ensure employees pick packages within their ergonomic power BLS Average*** Amazon U.S. Only BLS Average Amazon U.S. Only (For companies greater (For companies with zone—the area between the shoulder and mid-thigh. than 1k employees) 250-999 couriers) We’ve also increased the use of robotics in our warehouses to handle repetitive tasks and heavy lifting that can lead to MSDs, supporting a safer workplace. Robot systems Worldwide LTIR**: U.S. LTIR: U.S. LTIR Comparison Data"
"for U.S. LTIR Comparison Data for like Robin and Cardinal help sort, lift, and place packages. 65% improved (over the past five years) 76% improved (over the past five years) General Warehousing and Storage Courier and Express Delivery Services They handle repetitive tasks so our employees can work more comfortably. Additionally, one of our newest robotics systems, Sequoia, transports inventory directly 5.1 to employees’ workstations at an ergonomically friendly 4.4 height, eliminating the need"
"for them to reach above 4.0 3.6 their heads or squat. These are just a few examples of 2.6 the innovations we’ve created to provide a safer work 2.4 2.3 2.3 2.2 1.8 environment for our employees so they can focus on more 1.9 1.6 1.4 1.6 1.3 1.2 1.2 1.1 1.1 1.0 engaging tasks. 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2023 2022 2023 2024 2023 2022 2023 2024 In addition to investing in new technology, we also plan for things like extreme weather that can impact our employees’ BLS"
"Average Amazon U.S. Only BLS Average Amazon U.S. Only and partners’ safety, and our policies and procedures for (For companies greater (For companies with addressing the heat and cold are robust and often exceed than 1k employees) 250-999 couriers) industry standards. For example, Amazon-branded vans *Recordable Incident Rate (RIR) **Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) ***Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) 41 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water"
"Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices come equipped with air conditioning, which is above equipped with camera-based technology that helps Ultimately, we recognize that our scale demands exceptional industry standards, and if it isn’t working, the vehicle monitor safe driving behaviors. The system provides road safety—a commitment recently acknowledged by"
"the is taken out of service immediately. We also prioritize real-time feedback on key safety behaviors including Fédération Internationale de l’Automobile’s (FIA) highest understanding emerging safety trends to help create speed control, maintaining focus, proper seat belt use, rating. It’s why we’re relentlessly creating and iterating safer working environments. As an example, while we and adherence to road signs. If unsafe behaviors are new safety improvements for our partners to help keep"
"hope to never have to use it, we stocked naloxone, an detected, drivers receive coaching notifications during them and the communities where they operate safe. over-the-counter opioid overdose reversal medication, their delivery stop, and if the behaviors do not improve, in our U.S. and Canada fulfillment centers to proactively the driver’s employer—the DSPs—are notified so they strengthen our emergency response procedures. can further coach the driver. We’re also introducing live safety cues"
"(audible and visual) for drivers that We’re also proud that last year, we received eight different proactively inform them of low-clearance bridges, railroad safety awards from respected organizations including crossings, unpaved roads, and areas where they need to the National Safety Council, Verdantix, and the Network have additional awareness, such as school zones. We’ve of Employers for Traffic Safety. These awards recognized enhanced the Amazon Flex app for delivery partners safety"
"innovations like our proprietary ErgoPick, our using their own vehicles with safety-focused features. AI-enabled sensor technology that helps reduce risks These include alerts for potential roadway hazards and when loading trailers, our cutting-edge employee training the presence of pets at delivery locations, as well as a new programs, and our world-class safety professionals. chat feature that lets delivery partners notify customers when they’re approaching. Working Safely with Our Last year,"
"we also began rolling out our latest invention: Operations Partners Vision-Assisted Package Retrieval (VAPR) technology. VAPR reduces time drivers spend looking for packages Within our operations network, we work with partners in their van. Based on early tests, results yielded a 67% around the world to deliver packages to our customers reduction in perceived physical effort, and we’re excited safely and efficiently. For example, we work with small to continue this rollout. business owners"
"called Delivery Service Partners (DSPs) and independent contractors called Amazon Flex delivery Freight Network partners to deliver packages to customers’ doorsteps. For long-haul transportation, we’ve made investments We also work with independent, long-haul trucking in safety through our Relay technology, which carriers companies to move products across our network. We’re use to book and execute work for Amazon. This includes committed to helping our partners keep their employees implementing"
"stringent driver ID verification for every load safe by offering them access to industry-leading safety to ensure we know exactly who is handling our shipments. technologies, resources, and training. We’ve also enhanced our safety guidance and trip planning Delivery Network features that provide drivers with route-specific weather forecasts, in-app alerts, and satellite imagery for safe To help keep drivers and communities safe, we’re navigation. We also improved our fleet of more than"
"constantly designing and implementing new safety Amazon enhances long-haul safety with our Relay 50,000 branded trailers by adding flashing auxiliary lamps app, adding driver verification, route planning, improvements to our branded vans used for last mile and reflective tape to ensure trailers are more visible to and weather alerts. delivery. For example, all Amazon-branded vans are help drivers on the road maintain a safe distance. 42 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and"
"Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices Inclusive Our efforts are constantly evolving as we continue to • Hiring. Like most companies, we have a referral measure outcomes and learn how we can further improve. program where existing Amazonians can recommend Actions someone who may be qualified for an open role. We Since evolving to"
"our “built-in” approach in 2022, Experiences have a recruiting team that will search the market for we’ve made significant strides in identifying programs Tens of thousands of employees have participated the best talent for individual roles. And we have also that deliver meaningful impact for our employees. in Amazon Huddles, micro-learning conversations built a tool that works alongside those efforts to ensure In 2024, we continued to invest in the programs that help build an inclusive culture"
"we find talent from a wide range of backgrounds and that demonstrated measurable results and had the life experiences. It sorts through the qualifications of potential to scale. For example, we expanded Amazon tens of millions of applicants, surfacing the best talent Our Approach Huddles—micro-discussions that help build an inclusive based on eligibility requirements. This means that Hundreds of thousands of employees belong to culture—to reach tens of thousands of employees volunteer-led groups"
"that foster community and anyone, from any background, can be fairly evaluated if globally, seamlessly integrating it into everything from support and are open to all at Amazon they’re interested in joining our team. Amazon is committed to creating a diverse and inclusive new-employee onboarding to ongoing team meetings. company that helps us provide the best range of products Employees have responded positively to these 15- to • Benefits. As we looked at who used our benefits, we saw and"
"services for our vast and varied customer base. We build 30-minute conversations on topics such as culture, that many eligible people weren’t using them. We dug corporate offices to actively participate in building pathways for employees, partners, and customers from all well-being, and personal and professional growth. When into the reasons and realized that a root cause was a a culture where each individual can connect, grow, backgrounds to work, collaborate, and shop with us. an employee"
"participates in Amazon Huddles, we see lack of awareness. Those who knew about the benefits and thrive. Together at Amazon also helps to guide durable improvements in job satisfaction, managerial used them, so we focused on raising awareness among Over the last several years, we’ve proven that this work is employees toward proven, high-impact company skills, and team connectivity. all populations to ensure that when someone needs most effective when it is built into our business and into"
"programs, ranging from career development and help—no matter who they are or where they are in the the way we work from the start, rather than through a upskilling resources to mental health support and The following are just a few additional examples of where company—they know how to get it. “bolted-on” program. Our focus is on integrating inclusive community engagement opportunities. Among them we’ve built inclusive systems that are working better, practices into core business processes and"
"fostering a is Growth Conversations, a resource we created to at scale, for people across our ecosystem. They help us • Upskilling. Career Choice has helped nearly 244,000 truly inclusive culture. Whether it’s through the way support meaningful career discussions between create an environment where people have the resources employees pursue education with prepaid tuition, we hire, develop talent, design our products, or serve employees and managers. Growth Conversations is they need to do their"
"best work. flexible schedules, and on-site classes. Similarly, our our communities, we will continue driving our “built-in” an optional, employee-led experience that provides a Apprenticeship programs have created hundreds strategy, creating scalable programs and technologies that • Promotions for our frontline employees. We learned dedicated space for employees to explore and discuss of paths into technical roles since 2017—in cloud serve our globally diverse customers. that our promotion"
"process for frontline operation roles goals, plan next steps, and check in on progress over computing, software development, robotics, and was primarily being sourced from referrals by their time with their manager. mechanical maintenance—by focusing on potential managers. While that approach had good intentions, the over prerequisites. Our Progress Our Customers focus on local site presence resulted in varying levels of access and opportunity across locations. To minimize Learn more about"
"Career Choice the potential for bias, we built a tool called Fluid to Amazon launched new product features and initiatives in Our Employees surface opportunities to all employees who meet the • Together at Amazon. We launched Together at Amazon 2024 to help reach a broader audience and make it easier minimum criteria for a frontline operation role. They in August 2024 to bring together participants in our for customers with disabilities to enjoy our products. We believe that technology provides"
"us with the can easily apply through an app and are then evaluated employee-led groups, including affinity groups and best path to reach more than 1.5 million full- and on their tenure and merit. This means that more people, informal employee networks. Self-led by Amazonians, Streaming Services and Product Accessibility part-time employees. We use a comprehensive, from more geographies and backgrounds, have the these groups are open to all employees and offer We added Dual Audio to the Fire TV,"
"which allows users data-driven approach to evaluate employee programs best shot toward a frontline operation promotional community and support. Together at Amazon invites to stream audio through speakers and hearing aids based on their demonstrated impact. opportunity based on their accomplishments. employees across operations sites, data centers, and simultaneously, making TV watching with hard-of-hearing 43 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water"
"Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices friends more enjoyable. We also expanded Fire TV’s Inclusive Access in TV, Film, and Music Our Communities hearing aid compatibility beyond Cochlear and Starkey, In This Together Amazon continues to invest in strategic partnerships and adding WS Audiology (WSA) in 2024. On Prime Video, With our size, speed, and"
"innovative culture, Amazon’s programs to support the development of talent across TV, In This Together (ITT) helps us respond to community the new Dialogue Boost feature lets viewers increase philanthropic and volunteering initiatives are driving needs in these key areas: film, and music. In 2024, Amazon MGM Studios remained the volume of dialogue relative to background music change on a global scale. We are active in neighborhoods the primary sponsor of the Latino Film Institute’s Youth and"
"effects to create a more comfortable and accessible around the world, creating inclusive experiences that offer Cinema Project Alumni Program, which connects students viewing experience. In 2024, we also expanded the more opportunities to succeed. For example, education Discover to industry mentoring and assistance with college number of languages and audio-described titles across initiatives around Science, Technology, Engineering, and Hiring and career building programs applications. Our"
"collaboration with the Cherokee Nation U.S. streaming services. Mathematics (STEM); engagement with institutions that such as Career Choice provided full-ride scholarships to Cherokee Film Institute’s support people from all backgrounds; and direct exposure For the Kindle app on iOS, Android, and the Fire tablet, inaugural 2025 class. In the UK, our Prime Video Pathway to work at Amazon through our JumpStart program, all we added Assistive Reader to support customers who are partnership with the"
"National Film and Television School help create paths to employment across our communities. blind or have low vision. This feature allows customers expanded career opportunities in TV and film nationwide. Supply the flexibility to listen to their books—and read along We also sponsored the 2025 ReelAbilities Film Festival, Among our latest initiatives, In This Together (ITT) Supplier development programs with real-time highlighting. To improve access to product the largest showcase for stories"
"from the disability helps us respond to community needs through targeted like Impact Initiative information, we rolled out new tactile-marked community, as well as the 2025 Easterseals Disability Film economic and technological advancement opportunities. QR codes on inbox documentation for Kindles, Echo Challenge. In the music sector, Amazon Music renewed its ITT provides access to a curated list of Amazon resources devices, and most Fire TVs. These QR codes link to collaboration with the"
"Recording Academy’s Black Music for civic organizations, professional associations, and Own comprehensive accessibility documents and quick-start Collective through the Your Future Is Now scholarship educational institutions globally. It covers a few key guides, helping customers who are blind or have low program. Additionally, we supported the MusiCares Business ownership opportunities areas, including career and hiring opportunities, supplier vision access online content. Humans of Hip-Hop"
"program, a multi-year initiative like Road to Ownership (R2O) development, business ownership pathways, seller that provides access to under-represented communities education and resources, training and certifications, Amazon has relied on a major project collaboration tool for financial, medical, and mental health services, and discount programs, and accessibility solutions. to meet the needs of a wide range of assistive technology partnered with the Association of Independent Music and Sell"
"users at our company, including those who use screen Amazon products also help make our communities Women in CTRL to launch the Amplify apprenticeship for readers, screen magnifiers, or alternative navigation. In Seller University and resources such safer through programs such as Ring Home, where women and non-binary talent in the UK music industry. 2024, we leveraged our global reach to extend use of this as Amazon Partnered Carrier we donated Ring Home security cameras over the last tool to"
"more than 100,000 third-party sellers, making it a Reliable Access to Broadband two years to domestic violence survivors through our requirement as part of their enterprise licenses. collaboration with TechSoup and the National Network Project Kuiper is among our most ambitious initiatives to End Domestic Violence. Learn In January 2025, we also launched enhanced product to expand access to reliable broadband. Through a Training and certifications through summary functionality to make online"
"shopping more constellation of 3,200 satellites in low Earth orbit, we will Learn more about Amazon’s outreach efforts in our AWS Educate, AWS Academy, and accessible for screen reader users and those relying on bring fast, affordable service to unserved and underserved Community Impact section Amazon Future Engineer keyboard-only navigation. This feature identifies and communities around the world. This effort will benefit presents critical product information in a streamlined a wide range of"
"customers, including schools, hospitals, interface. As a result, blind- or low-vision shoppers can businesses, government agencies, and others that operate Access find the most relevant information about the products in places without reliable connectivity or that need more Discount programs and accessibility they’re browsing and more quickly make informed flexible, resilient communications capabilities. We began solutions through Amazon Access purchase decisions. deploying our satellite"
"constellation in early 2025, and expect to roll out service later in the year. 44 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices Community Our Progress Add $1.4 billion to the Housing Goal Actions Equity Fund to create and preserve an additional 14,000 affordable homes Expanding"
"Access to Critical Impact Social Needs 250K+ Amazon employees from over 55 countries volunteered with $2.2B Invested to create or preserve more 7,000 organizations We focus our time and resources on expanding access than 21,000 affordable homes, supporting more than 44,700 residents to critical social needs like affordable housing, food, and education, so that individuals and families can thrive. Our Approach $350M+ Contributed to support 2,600 Affordable Housing community partners globally We"
"aim to make our customers’ lives better and easier Distribute up to $60 million in AWS Goal We believe everyone should have access to housing they cloud computing credits to support every day and to have a positive impact on our local can afford. However, the possibility of homeownership global health by the end of 2024 communities all around the world, using our scale and remains out of reach for many in the U.S., especially 95M Meals donated or delivered abilities to take on some of society’s"
"most pressing for low-income families. In January 2021, we launched to households in need challenges. We work side by side with local community the Housing Equity Fund with the goal of increasing partners and nonprofits to create and drive programs $60M In cloud computing credits awarded to access to affordable homes. When the Fund started, 403 organizations since 2021 that help advance access to affordable housing, we committed $2 billion to help create and preserve alleviate hunger, strengthen"
"education, and build skills 39 Natural disasters responded 20,000 affordable homes across three of our hometown for the future, and we mobilize our infrastructure and to across 19 countries communities—Washington State’s Puget Sound region; technology to support communities impacted by natural the Arlington, Virginia/National Capital region; and disasters. We’re also focused on providing employees Help 29 million people globally grow Nashville, Tennessee. We exceeded this original goal Goal with"
"volunteering opportunities so they can give back their technical skills by providing free two years early by providing $2.2 billion to create and 7.8M+ Students reached from directly to communities where they work and live. cloud computing training by 2025 preserve more than 21,000 affordable homes. In 2024, underserved communities globally through Amazon We also support nature conservation and climate we announced an expanded commitment of $1.4 billion Future Engineer programs resilience in"
"communities around the world . to create and preserve an additional 14,000 homes, 31M People helped in 2024 bringing Amazon’s total commitment to $3.6 billion to Learn more in our 2024 Community Impact Reports: help create or preserve 35,000 affordable homes in these network, reaching over 40 local partner food banks three communities. • Puget Sound in the U.S. to redistribute surplus food to people • National Capital Region Addressing Food Security experiencing hunger51 delivered 95 million"
"meals to food banks, nonprofits, and households in need: We use our logistics, technology, and infrastructure to Beyond donations, our efforts to be a socially responsible innovate on behalf of people facing food insecurity. grocer extend to making grocery shopping more affordable • Delivered 56.5 million meals on behalf of food banks This includes mobilizing our transportation network to for the community. In 2024, we launched Temporary and nonprofits across 13 countries worldwide, including"
"provide bulk food transport, as well as free meal deliveries Assistance for Needy Families (“Cash EBT”) payment 12.5 million meals to U.S. households to households in need. In addition, we are increasing acceptance in 21 states through Amazon Access , collaboration with food rescue and redistribution • Donated 38.5 million meals through Amazon Fresh a program for low-income individuals that also enables organizations across the U.S. In 2024, Amazon donated or product and cash donations to the"
"Feeding America Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program benefits 45 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices acceptance for groceries. We also partner with intelligence (AI). In 2024, 82,000 K-12 students and organizations like Partnership for a Healthier America to educators"
"participated in 93 of these spaces. AWS also AI for Social Good Giving Back through Volunteering Efforts improve nutrition accessibility. offers the AWS Machine Learning University educator Amazon is committed to unlocking the potential of AI for Amazon also contributes to building healthy communities enablement program , which trains employees on the social good. AWS’s AI for Changemakers (AI4C) program through employee volunteering. During our 2024 Global In partnership with Food Donation"
"Connection, Whole theory and practical application of machine learning (ML) provides nonprofits and social enterprises with cloud Month of Volunteering , Amazon employees from over Foods Market donates millions of pounds of perishable and AI. credits, technical training, and mentorship to build and 50 countries participated in more than 5,000 volunteering and nonperishable food annually to local food banks and scale AI-based solutions that address global challenges. events. Throughout the year,"
"over 250,000 participants food rescue agencies across the U.S. In 2024, over 28 As of the end of 2024, we delivered free cloud computing As part of AI4C, AWS launched the Now Go Build CTO volunteered with 7,000 nonprofit and community Fellowship, a mentorship program for senior technical organizations across over 55 countries. In addition, our pro million meals were donated to 1,030 unique food rescue skills training to 31 million learners—surpassing our goal leaders. AWS also supports the"
"United Nations-led digital bono program enabled more than 1,400 legal and public and redistribution programs across the country through to help 29 million people by 2025. Similarly, through platform, AI for Good , investing $800,000 with 10 policy professionals to provide 16,200 hours of free legal Whole Foods Market. To further promote access to quality AWS’s free AI skills training initiative, AI Ready , we organizations and projects to identify practical AI solutions support globally in 2024."
"food, the Nourishing Our Neighborhoods program reached our target of training 2 million learners globally that advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals. has donated 54 refrigerated vans to help community- with free AI skills, achieving both milestones ahead of our based programs distribute food. Learn more about how 2025 commitment. AWS offers more than 135 free and Supporting Disaster Relief we increase access to healthy food in the Whole Foods low-cost courses and learning resources on AI,"
"ML, and Market’s 2023 Impact Report generative AI. In addition, AWS InCommunities , and Response Efforts Amazon’s community efforts in data center locations, focuses on STEM education, local skills development, Whether in times of immediate crisis or when long-term Health Resources sustainability, and hyper-local social impact. In 2024, AWS support is needed, we respond by showing up in communities. launched 11 InCommunities funds and allocated nearly Through Amazon Disaster Relief, we leverage"
"our In July 2024, AWS concluded the AWS Health Equity $2 million globally in hyper-local funding. Initiative (HEI) , a $60 million commitment to use cloud technology and global logistics network to provide fast, technology to address disparities in global health. Over three effective aid for communities affected by natural disasters. For those just starting their careers or looking to break years, HEI supported 403 organizations across 39 countries, Our 15 global Disaster Relief Hubs across the"
"U.S., Europe, reaching every continent except Antarctica, reflecting into a new field, the AWS AI and ML Scholarship Asia, and Australia are facilities stocked with relief items the growing span of health customers and their focus on program , in collaboration with Udacity, awarded 2,500 utilizing technology to address access to health care. including shelter materials, hygiene supplies, and medical scholarships in 2024 to support students globally to learn equipment. In 2024, Amazon provided"
"support during 39 foundational skills to prepare for careers in technology. disasters across 19 countries—including the devastating The AWS Skills to Jobs Tech Alliance , an educational Access to Education and Skills-Building hurricanes in the Southeast U.S. and flooding across and skills training program, has now connected 37,000 central Europe and Southern Spain. Amazon donated We develop and advance programs that empower learners learners to employers. $10 million to support the Southern"
"California wildfires of all ages and skill levels with digital education and We also support organizations that build digital learning in January 2025, including donating 550,000 items from technical skills to prepare more people for jobs of the future. solutions for underserved learners. For example, in 2024, its Wildfire Disaster Relief Hub, as well as providing This includes giving school-age students opportunities to AWS launched the AWS Education Equity Initiative , AWS cloud technology,"
"including drone support, to help prepare for future education and careers in technology. a $100 million commitment of cloud and AI technology emergency responders quickly assess and react to the One example is our childhood-to-career computer science to support innovative learning solutions such as coding wildfires’ conditions. We used our logistics network to program, Amazon Future Engineer , which reached more curriculums, AI assistants, and more. donate and deliver 4.1 million relief items to"
"nonprofit than 7.8 million students in 2024 across grade levels, up partners. We also deployed our AWS cloud technology to Learn more about skill development programs in this We mobilized our European Disaster Relief Hub and from 3.9 million in 2023. Another example is AWS Think help local governments and organizations stay connected, volunteer employees to aid those impacted by flooding year’s AWS Summary Big Spaces, which provide interactive STEM education in providing nearly $2 million in AWS"
"credits to 41 customers in southeastern Spain. tech-related fields such as robotics, coding, and artificial affected by eight natural disasters. 46 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices Responsible Risk Oversight Board Committee Structure and Oversight The Board and its"
"committees oversee executives’ Boards of Directors management of risks relevant to the company. While the Business full Board has overall responsibility for risk oversight, the Nominating and Corporate Leadership Development and Audit Committee Security Committee Board has delegated responsibility related to certain risks Governance Committee Compensation Committee to the Audit Committee; the Leadership Development and Responsible for overseeing Oversees the company’s policies Practices"
"Responsible for overseeing Responsible for overseeing management of risks related to our and procedures for protecting the Compensation Committee; the Nominating and Corporate management of risks related management of risks related financial statements and financial company’s security infrastructure Governance Committee; and the Security Committee. to our sustainability and other to succession planning and reporting process, assessment of and for compliance with applicable environmental and"
"corporate compensation for our executive risks related to business continuity data protection and security social responsibility practices, officers and our overall Amazon’s Board Oversight and operational risks, the regulations, and related risks. including risks related to our compensation program, including qualifications, independence, and The Security Committee receives operations and our supply chain. our equity-based compensation performance of our independent reports regarding such risks"
"from The Board actively oversees Amazon’s sustainability and plans, as well as risks related to auditors, the performance of our management, including our Chief Our Approach corporate governance policies and initiatives, receives other human capital management internal audit function, legal and Security Officer, and reports to matters, including workplace periodic reports on and discusses our enterprise risk regulatory matters, our compliance the Board at least annually. The health and safety,"
"culture, diversity, policies and procedures, tax committee also oversees the assessments, oversees and receives regular reports on our discrimination, and harassment. planning and compliance, and Board’s response to any significant Amazon works to prioritize responsible business practices regulatory compliance, and reviews shareholder feedback political contributions and cybersecurity incidents. and strong governance. Operating ethically and with lobbying expenses. on these topics as we evolve"
"our practices and disclosures. integrity is a nonnegotiable part of how we do business. It is crucial to how we develop, deploy, and support our The Board meets regularly during the year and holds product and service offerings and maintain trust with special meetings and acts by unanimous written consent 4 Meetings Held 5 Meetings Held 6 Meetings Held 2 Meetings Held our stakeholders. We also engage in public policy efforts whenever circumstances require. Throughout 2024, the both in the U.S."
"and globally on issues that matter to our Board held five in-person meetings and participated in Committees met with Management and reviewed Topics that included: customers, stakeholders, investors, and business. regularly scheduled teleconference discussions on various • the Board’s composition, • the design, amounts, and • the Company’s risk assessment, • the Amazon Security topics, generally on a monthly basis. diversity, and skills in the effectiveness of the Company’s including business"
"continuity organization’s ongoing context of identifying and compensation of senior and operational risks, and investments in the Company’s Our Progress Oversight and Management of evaluating new director executives; compliance functions; security infrastructure and Climate-Related Issues candidates to join the Board; • management succession • data privacy; management of and response planning; • policies, procedures, • the Board’s recruitment and self- to cybersecurity risks as well as • the"
"Company’s benefit and and reports on political Corporate Governance The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee evaluation processes; physical security risks; compensation programs; contributions and lobbying • Board compensation; • cybersecurity-related is responsible for overseeing management of risks • the Company’s human expenses; • Board Committee membership internal audit findings and resources programs, including • treasury and investment related to our sustainability and other"
"environmental and and qualifications; initiatives; and Amazon’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) is responsible review of workplace matters; • consideration of the Company’s • regulatory and governance corporate social responsibility practices, including risks discrimination and harassment • tax matters; for the control and direction of Amazon. The Board policies and initiatives regarding updates related to reports, worker health • financial statements and related to our operations and our"
"supply chain. represents the shareholders, and its primary purpose is to sustainability, corporate social and safety and workplace cybersecurity. financial reporting; responsibility, and corporate conditions, and diversity and build long-term shareholder value. The full Board regularly • accounting industry issues; The Chief Sustainability Officer oversees Amazon’s governance; inclusion matters; and • the performance of our internal reviews reports from management on various aspects • review of"
"the Company’s • feedback from the Company’s Sustainability team and provides updates to the audit function; approach to responsible AI shareholder engagement, of our business, including related risks and tactics and • the reappointment of our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. development and AI governance; particularly with respect to the strategies for addressing them. Amazon’s Sustainability team coordinates efforts across • review of recent public relations 2024 advisory vote"
"approving independent auditor; and • pending litigation and regulatory the compensation of our named initiatives; and the company to oversee operational changes that compliance. executive officers. • feedback from the Company’s help reduce or eliminate carbon in our businesses. We shareholder engagement. developed a companywide carbon system of record that 47 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain"
"Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact Responsible Business Practices provides information to business teams on their emissions Shareholder Engagement our product and service offerings; and in our ability to services, accounts payable, and payroll own processes and allows them to track decarbonization progress. The establish and maintain strong relationships with our designed to identify, monitor, and evaluate risks including We believe"
"that effective corporate governance includes Sustainability team reports to the senior leadership team customers, suppliers, and other stakeholders. fraud, misappropriation of assets, corruption, and year-round engagement with our shareholders. Our on various aspects of our environmental, sustainability, financial reporting integrity. Control functions like finance, shareholder engagement team includes employees whose Amazon has policies and practices in place to help and other relevant"
"practices on a quarterly basis. procurement, and internal audit collaborate with the Business full-time, year-round responsibilities include engaging enforce adherence to local, state, federal, and laws of Amazon’s senior leadership team also holds quarterly Conduct and Ethics team to detect and prevent corruption. with our investors, communicating with management and other countries. Our Code of Business Conduct and business reviews with the leadership teams of all our directly with our Board"
"members to inform them on topics Ethics , associated policies, procedures, training, and Our gift and entertainment reporting mechanism requires major businesses to track progress toward meeting our discussed and feedback received in the course of their communications outline our expectations of employees. employees to disclose and seek approval for qualifying gifts commitments under The Climate Pledge. engagement meetings, and coordinating and promoting or services received from third parties"
"or given to government The Business Conduct and Ethics program is led by the Human Rights Governance the effectiveness of direct shareholder engagement officials. We also provide a mechanism for employees to Vice President for Business Conduct and Ethics, who meetings that our directors participate in. disclose potential conflicts of interest and receive guidance The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee reports to the Senior Vice President, Chief Global Affairs on necessary remediation."
"oversees and monitors Amazon’s policies and initiatives From the beginning of 2024 through April 10, 2025, when & Legal Officer. Our Business Conduct and Ethics program relating to corporate social responsibility, including human we filed our 2025 Proxy Statement, we engaged with 70 includes an annual risk assessment and compliance Amazon actively encourages our employees to report any rights and ethical business practices, and related risks of our 100 largest unaffiliated shareholders, as well"
"as with goal-setting process that is informed by client interviews issues or concerns without fear of reprisal, intimidation, most relevant to Amazon’s operations and engagement numerous other shareholders. Our lead independent and leadership of each department, a whistleblower or harassment and provides various secure and accessible with customers, suppliers, and communities. The Chief director, the Chair of the Nominating and Corporate hotline, centralized investigation and reporting of"
"channels to do so. Any employee can go directly to Sustainability Officer provides updates on progress to Governance Committee, or the Chair of the Leadership violations, a due diligence program designed to detect Human Resources, the Legal Department, or any manager the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. Development and Compensation Committee participated potential compliance issues with third parties before with questions about the application of the Code of In addition, the"
"Board’s Leadership Development and in meetings with shareholders owning more than 25% of engaging in business transactions with those third parties, Business Conduct and Ethics or how to approach difficult Compensation Committee oversees and monitors the our stock, including one-on-one or small group meetings a conflict of interest program and disclosure mechanism, workplace situations. Company’s strategies and policies related to human with most of our 20 largest shareholders. a gifts,"
"entertainment, and travel program, and a wide Employees can also voice concerns, anonymously report capital management within the company’s workforce, variety of online and in-person training about compliance- Our direct engagement with shareholders helps us better potential violations of Amazon’s Code of Business Conduct including with respect to policies on nondiscrimination in related topics and the company’s compliance policies. understand our shareholders’ priorities, perspectives, and"
"Ethics, and ask questions about potentially unethical employment, our workplace environment and safety, and and areas of concern, while giving us an opportunity conduct through Amazon’s Ethics Line. The Ethics Line Maintaining an Ethical Culture corporate culture. to elaborate on our many initiatives and practices and is currently available in 65 countries in 165 languages. In 2024, Amazon appointed a Human Rights Officer to address the extent to which various aspects of these Amazon has zero"
"tolerance for bribery and/or corruption Reports received through the Ethics Line are routed to the (HRO) to oversee risk management of human rights and matters are (or are not) significant given the scope and in any form for any of our businesses. Our anti-corruption appropriate teams with the knowledge and experience to environmental risks to meet regulatory requirements. nature of our operations and our existing practices. We compliance program—part of a centralized global address the"
"employee’s particular issue. The HRO reports directly to Amazon’s Chief Sustainability take insights from this feedback into consideration and compliance program—is led by the Vice President for We prohibit retaliation and take all allegations seriously. Officer and facilitates regular updates on Amazon’s risk regularly share them with our Board as we review and Business Conduct and Ethics and the Global Business Our Business Conduct and Ethics team records, and where management activities to"
"senior leadership of relevant evolve our practices and disclosures. Conduct and Ethics team with regional oversight. It is appropriate investigates (or directs others to investigate) Amazon entities. Relying on the core resources of a central informed by our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and and reports alleged violations of the Code of Conduct to the Business Ethics team, Amazon’s HRO partners with local teams to monitor Anti-Bribery Policy, which include outright prohibitions on Audit"
"Committee of the Board. The Business Conduct and these Amazon risk management activities. bribery of any kind. We reinforce these policies through Ethics team also tracks any remediation required. Employees regular online and live trainings with employees. Acting ethically and with integrity is essential in how our Learn more about how we embed human rights into our must cooperate in internal investigations of alleged employees make decisions and interact effectively with decision-making Amazon"
"maintains extensive financial transaction misconduct, with those who violate the Code of Conduct one another; in how we develop, deploy, and support controls. Groups within accounting, finance operations subject to disciplinary action up to and including discharge. 48 Overview Progress Appendix Carbon and Energy Waste and Circularity Packaging Water Biodiversity Human Rights Responsible Supply Chain Sustainable Products Employee Experience Health and Safety Inclusive Experiences Community Impact"
"Responsible Business Practices Senior leadership receives regular updates on allegations of Advancing Anti-Corruption Efforts with economic impact in the U.S. by supporting 69,000 jobs also review related procedures, and a report on all the unlawful harassment and discrimination against employees Governments and Industry Partners and generating approximately $4.2 billion in wages and company’s campaign contributions and lobbying expenses, in director-level positions or above, and on"
"investigation nearly $1 billion in taxes.53 including donations made to other organizations that may In 2024, we strengthened our engagement externally progress and findings. The Leadership Development and engage in indirect lobbying on behalf of the company. Data Protection and Security to drive progress and cooperation. We are a part of Compensation Committee receives detailed quarterly Learn more about our policy positions and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and updates on any"
"allegations of unlawful harassment and public policy efforts discrimination against employees in vice-president-level Development’s Galvanizing the Private Sector program , We design our systems with the customer’s security positions or above, or employees externally investigated which includes its Anti-Corruption Leaders Hub (ACLH), a and privacy in mind. Learn more about how we protect Responsible Artificial on our behalf. working group of public officials, civil society groups, your data and"
"private sector compliance leaders. ACLH is an Intelligence (AI) Amazon maintains an appeals process for our employees. Additional Amazon Privacy Resources: important forum for advancing efforts toward digitizing Across the U.S. and Canada, eligible employees can submit • Amazon.com Privacy Notice compliance information and transaction data and From reducing packaging and food waste to powering an appeal through an online service to challenge certain • AWS Privacy Notice expanding local partner"
"vetting programs—which are fulfillment and data center operations more efficiently, disciplinary actions. The applicable manager reviews the among Amazon’s priorities. • Advertising, Data Protection and Privacy Policy Amazon has been innovating with AI and ML for decades. claim to verify policies have been correctly applied. Where • Law Enforcement Information Requests As one of the world’s leading developers and deployers this is not the case, appropriate remediation can then Supplier"
"Development and Impact of AI tools and services, Amazon supports fostering the be taken. Policy and Advocacy safe, responsible, and effective use of AI technology. Amazon works with thousands of suppliers globally, We are dedicated to driving innovation on behalf of our Learn more about how we gather and implement ranging from small local businesses to large multinational Amazon’s public policy work serves our customers by customers while also establishing and implementing employee feedback"
"corporations. One of the mechanisms for ensuring we encouraging long-term legal and regulatory preparedness the necessary safeguards to protect our customers, Training continue to build a robust global supply base is through for our existing and future businesses. We engage with end users, and everyday consumers. Amazon remains Supplier Development and Impact (SDI) , which provides policymakers on a wide range of issues and also partner committed to continued collaboration with policymakers,"
"Integrity and ethics begin with our leaders and Board. qualified and competitive Disadvantaged-Owned with multilateral organizations, industry associations, industry, researchers, and the AI community to advance Amazon’s Board receives training on the Code of Conduct, Businesses (DOBs) a fair opportunity to compete within coalitions, and other stakeholders to advance our the responsible use of AI. anti-corruption, and competition. All employees (including our supply chain. positions . For"
"example, we advocate in support of public part-time and seasonal employees) receive Code of policy that aligns with our commitment to reach net-zero In February 2024, Amazon joined the U.S. Artificial Amazon’s SDI Tier 1 spend—direct payments to DOBs Conduct training during onboarding, with regular refresher carbon emissions across our global supply chain by 2040, Intelligence Safety Institute (AISI) Consortium, established for goods and services—increased from $4.3 billion in training"
"thereafter. Employees may receive additional including carbon-free energy, and on policies aimed at by NIST, and in May 2024, joined the Frontier Model Forum 2023 to $9.7 billion in 2024. We increased purchases with anti-corruption and anti-bribery training based on their reducing packaging materials. to advance AI safety and security through best practices existing suppliers in our supply chain and also identified roles, as well as competition training and training on development. This"
"partnership focuses on AI model new companies, bringing the total number of qualified, We publish an annual political engagement statement discrimination and harassment. evaluations and information sharing between industry, competitive DOBs to more than 500. In 2024, we made detailing our U.S. lobbying activities and disclosing academia, government, and civil society. In November We set standards and expectations for our suppliers direct payments to DOBs in seven countries. spending on ballot"
"initiatives and public organizations, as 2024, AWS became the first major cloud provider to through our Supplier Code of Conduct . well as with state and local representatives. In the EU, we receive ISO/IEC 42001 certification for its AI services, Amazon SDI creates impact through both direct spend disclose our activities in the EU Transparency Register and including Amazon Bedrock, Amazon Q Business, Amazon Learn more about how we work with suppliers to foster with DOBs and through our Tier 2"
"program, where national registries, where required. Textract, and Amazon Transcribe. ISO/IEC 42001 is the a responsible supply chain Tier 1 suppliers are encouraged to include qualified and international standard establishing requirements for competitive DOBs in their sourcing activities. In 2024, Our Senior Vice President, Chief Global Affairs & Legal responsible AI system development. 243 Tier 1 suppliers shared that more than $2.1 billion in Officer, who oversees our global public policy"
"organizations, Tier 2 spend was achieved.52 Through improved processes and the Audit Committee of the Board annually review Learn more about how Amazon is building AI with and technologies, our spend with DOBs strengthened this U.S. Political Engagement Policy and Statement. They responsibility in mind 49 Overview Progress Appendix Data Tables Priority Topics Assessment Endnotes Assurance Statements Disclaimer and Forward-Looking Statements Data Tables 2022 and 2023 carbon footprints"
"recalculated in accordance with Amazon’s Carbon Footprint Amazon Renewable Energy Projects** updated Carbon Methodology Number Total MW Carbon 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 YoY% Project Location of Projects Capacity*** Australia 10 499 Carbon Intensity Austria 1 0.03 (grams of CO₂e per $ of merchandise sales) 122.8 102.7 100.8 85.7 75.6 72.6 -4% Belgium 1 1 Brazil 2 171 Emissions Category (MMT CO₂e) Canada 4 875 China 4 450 Emissions from Direct Operations (Scope 1) 5.76 9.62 12.11 13.02 14.22"
"15.13 6% Czech Republic 1 4 Fossil Fuels 5.57 9.37 11.89 12.60 13.85 14.80 7% Finland 11 772 France 8 41 Refrigerants 0.19 0.25 0.22 0.42 0.37 0.33 -11% Germany 9 681 Emissions from Purchased Electricity (Scope 2)* 5.50 5.27 4.07 3.06 2.76 2.80 1% Greece 8 657 India 53 1,326 Emissions from Indirect Sources (Scope 3)* 39.91 45.75 55.36 49.02 47.40 50.32 6% Indonesia 1 355 Ireland 4 310 Purchased Goods and Services (Amazon corporate purchases made for Amazon’s operations and services, Amazon-"
"branded products) 17.16 16.46 17.24 5% Italy 40 536 Capital Goods 9.11 8.45 9.99 18% Japan 25 211 Netherlands 1 380 Fuel and Energy-Related Activities 4.40 5.03 4.55 -10% New Zealand 1 51 Poland 4 142 Upstream Transportation and Distribution 10.10 8.88 9.61 8% Portugal 1 219 Business Travel 0.79 0.82 0.98 20% Saudi Arabia 1 2 Singapore 2 76 Employee Commuting 2.93 2.70 2.76 2% South Africa 2 28 Downstream Transportation and Distribution 3.31 3.52 3.73 6% South Korea 1 60 Spain 94 3,780 Use of"
"Sold Products (Amazon Devices) 1.18 1.50 1.43 -5% Sweden 5 787 United Arab Emirates 2 3 End-of-Life Treatment of Sold Products (Amazon Devices) 0.04 0.04 0.03 -25% United Kingdom 44 964 Amazon’s Carbon Footprint 51.17 60.64 71.54 65.10 64.38 68.25 6% United States 281 20,104 Total 621 33,485 *Scope 2 and 3 carbon emissions are calculated using a market-based method. **This table includes both on-site solar and contracted off-site utility-scale wind and solar projects, which are in various stages"
"of development and construction. Of the projects included in the table, 124 were announced in January 2025. AWS aims to procure renewable electricity in the same grids where it consumes electricity. When AWS determines this is not feasible, AWS may procure renewable energy attributes in other locations. ***Total annual expected MW capacity when operational. 50 Overview Progress Appendix Data Tables Priority Topics Assessment Endnotes Assurance Statements Disclaimer and Forward-Looking Statements"
"Materials and Agricultural Commodities Sourcing No Deforestation To support the elimination of deforestation associated with raw materials and ingredients within our food and consumables Private Brands supply chains, Amazon has made commitments for the use of palm oil, paper and paper packaging, beef, soy, cocoa, coffee, and tea. Commodity or Material Goal or Ambition 2023 Progress (% of in-scope products that meet our goal or ambition) 2024 Progress (% of in-scope products that meet our goal or"
"ambition) Palm Oil Source palm oil and derivatives in Amazon Private Brands food In an effort to achieve this target, Amazon (including Whole Foods Market) became a member of the RSPO 100% 97% 100% 100% 97% 100% and consumable products and palm oil in 365 by Whole Foods in February 2024 to demonstrate our strong commitment to source sustainably certified palm oil for our Market food products from sources certified to the RSPO supply Private Brands products. Whole Foods Market Amazon Private"
"Brands Amazon Private Brands Europe chain standard. North America Paper Products and Source Private Brands paper products that are either recycled 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 97% Paper PackagingA or certified to Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI), or Programme for the Endorsement of 365 by Whole Foods Amazon Private Brands Amazon Private Brands Europe 365 by Whole Foods Amazon Private Brands Amazon Private Brands Europe Forest Certification (PEFC) standards."
"Market-branded products North America Market-branded products North America We strive to use sustainably sourced fiber in our grocery and We are working with our suppliers to increase the amount of fiber from responsibly managed forests and/ We continue to work with suppliers to increase the amount of fiber from responsibly managed forests and/ consumable Private Brands paper-based primary packaging. or recycled materials used in our paper-based primary packaging. or recycled materials used in"
"our paper-based primary packaging. BeefB By 2025, source Private Brands beef from regions of low 100% 92% 100% 100% 91% 100% 100% 92% 100% 100% 95% 100% deforestation risk or with full supply chain traceability, demonstrating the products did not contribute to deforestation. 365 by Whole Foods Amazon Private Brands Amazon Private Brands Europe 365 by Whole Foods Amazon Private Brands Amazon Private Brands Europe Market-branded products North America Market-branded products North America SoyC"
"Conduct a risk assessment of the soy in Private Brands supply Within Europe, Amazon’s goal is that the soy in Private Brands supply chains will be deforestation-free by In 2024, 6% of soy in our European private brand supply chains was verified Deforestation- and chains with a third-party consultancy and share more information the end of 2025, with a cut-off date of 2020. Conversion-Free (DCF), an increase from 4% in 2023. A further 79% was in transition, with only 15% not by the end of 2023."
"certified. To support a continued focus on progress, Amazon Fresh Private Brands has joined the Retail Soy Within North America, we determined through this assessment that the majority of the soy in our private Group in Europe. brands animal protein and meat-counter supply chains is domestically sourced and is thus unlikely to pose a deforestation risk. Within North America, we conducted a risk assessment of the soy in Amazon and Whole Foods Market private brands supply chains with a third-party"
"consultancy in 2023. This determined that the majority of the soy in our private brands animal protein and meat-counter supply chains is domestically sourced and thus is unlikely to pose a deforestation risk. CocoaD By 2025, source Private Brands chocolate bars, chocolate chips, 100% 53% 100% 100% 70% 100% 100% 53% 100% 100% 70% 100% and baking chocolate/powder products that are certified by Rainforest Alliance, Fairtrade International, Fair Trade USA, or 365 by Whole Foods Amazon Private Brands"
"Amazon Private Brands Europe 365 by Whole Foods Amazon Private Brands Amazon Private Brands Europe other independently verified third-party certifications, such as Market-branded products North America Market-branded products North America Cocoa Horizons. CoffeeE By 2025, source Private Brands packaged bean, ground, instant, 100% 98% 100% 100% 98% 100% and liquid coffee products that are Rainforest Alliance, Fairtrade International, or Fair Trade USA certified. 365 by Whole Foods Market- Amazon"
"Private Brands Amazon Private Brands Europe 365 by Whole Foods Market- Amazon Private Brands Amazon Private Brands Europe branded and Whole Foods North America branded and Whole Foods North America Market-branded products Market-branded products TeaF By 2025, source Private Brands bagged tea products based on the 100% 18 Amazon Private Brands 100% Amazon Private Brands 100% 18% 100% 75% tea leaf (camellia sinensis) certified by Rainforest Alliance, Fairtrade Europe did not have in Europe did not"
"have International, or Fair Trade USA. 365 by Whole Foods Amazon Private Brands tea products in 2023. 365 by Whole Foods Market- Amazon Private Brands tea products in 2024. Market-branded products North America branded products North America 51 Overview Progress Appendix Data Tables Priority Topics Assessment Endnotes Assurance Statements Disclaimer and Forward-Looking Statements Materials and Agricultural Commodities Sourcing (continued) Sustainable Seafood and Animal Welfare Commodity or"
"Material Goal or Ambition 2023 Progress (% of in-scope products that meet our goal or ambition) 2024 Progress (% of in-scope products that meet our goal or ambition) Seafood Source Responsibly Farmed or sustainable wild-caught fresh Data for Amazon Private Brands 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% and frozen seafood to Whole Foods Market’s in Europe was being verified in Seafood Quality Standards .G Whole Foods Market Amazon Private Brands 2023. Whole Foods Market Amazon Private Brands Amazon Private"
"Brands Europe North America North America Source Amazon Private Brands seafood products that have a third-party sustainability certification or are actively working toward certification or engaged in a fishery improvement project (FIP).H Eggs Source shell and liquid egg products to a cage-free or higher animal 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% welfare standard. Products sold in Whole Foods Amazon Private Brands and Amazon Private Brands shell Products sold in Whole Foods Amazon Private Brands and"
"Amazon Private Brands shell Market dairy cases, own national brands shell and liquid eggs sold in Europe are free- Market dairy cases, own national brands shell and liquid eggs sold in Europe are kitchens, and bakeries in the egg selections sold in North range or barn-raised. kitchens, and bakeries in the egg selections sold by Amazon free-range or barn-raised. U.S. meet Whole Foods Market’s America are cage-free. U.S. meet Whole Foods Market’s Fresh in North America are Animal Welfare Standards"
"for Animal Welfare Standards for cage-free. Laying Hens . Laying Hens. Pork Source fresh pork sold in the Whole Foods Market meat department 100% 100% in the U.S. and Canada that is crate-free and certified by the Global Animal Partnership. Whole Foods Market Whole Foods Market Our medium-term milestone is to source 100% of our private As of the end of 2024, 22% of the pork we source comes from group housing or crate-free systems. label fresh pork from group housing or crate-free systems Please"
"see Amazon Fresh’s Animal Welfare Position for more details. by the end of 2027. All fresh pork sausages, bacon and ribs sourced for our “by Amazon“ 100% 100% private brand in the UK are Red Tractor Certified and meet the requirements of either the (1) British Meat Processors Association, Amazon Private Brands Europe Amazon Private Brands Europe Pork scheme, or (2) Irish Food Board, Bord Bia. Additionally, we only use certified welfare standards for the Spanish and Italian pork in our private"
"brand packaged deli meats. Other Animal Source all fresh beef, pork, chicken, turkey (excluding kosher turkey), 100% 100% Proteins and lamb sold in the meat department to Whole Foods Market’s Animal Welfare Standards . Whole Foods Market Whole Foods Market Sourcing animal protein products within Amazon Private Brands We are working with key animal protein suppliers to confirm they meet our existing animal welfare We have enhanced our commitment to animal welfare for Amazon Fresh private brands."
"Please see Amazon in North America and Europe to the following requirements policy. We are actively enhancing our commitment to animal welfare for our private brands to build upon Fresh’s Animal Welfare Position for more details. under our animal welfare policy: (1) Suppliers must comply with our established supplier requirements and plan to share key updates in 2025. relevant legislation and regulations, as a foundational requirement, (2) suppliers must ensure that all animals raised and"
"slaughtered are subject to a credible industry animal care assurance program or third-party animal welfare certification, (3) suppliers must be able to trace animal protein private brand products sourced by Amazon back to either, in order of preference, the farm, the co-op/processor, or to the slaughter plant, (4) suppliers must have a formal policy to address noncompliance with a relevant industry animal care assurance program or third-party animal welfare certification, and any noncompliance"
"or instance of animal cruelty, neglect, or abuse must be reported to Amazon. 52 Overview Progress Appendix Data Tables Priority Topics Assessment Endnotes Assurance Statements Disclaimer and Forward-Looking Statements Materials and Agricultural Commodities Sourcing (continued) Apparel Commodity or Material Goal or Ambition 2023 Progress (% of in-scope products that meet our goal or ambition) 2024 Progress (% of in-scope products that meet our goal or ambition) Cotton Source all cotton for Amazon"
"Private Brands apparel products from more 100% 100% sustainable sources, which we define as being sourced from recycled materials, from farms certified as producing organic cotton, or through Amazon Private Brands apparel products Amazon Private Brands apparel products the Better Cotton Initiative, or through the U.S. Cotton Trust Protocol. Leather Source leather apparel and shoe products from more sustainable Amazon did not source any Private Brands apparel or shoes made from leather in 2023."
"Amazon Private Brands apparel or shoes 100% sources, which we define as being sourced from tanneries that meet the Leather Working Group’s Bronze level or higher. Amazon Private Brands apparel or shoes Manufactured Source manufactured cellulosic fibers used in Amazon Private Brands 100% 100% Cellulosic Fibers apparel products—including rayon, viscose, lyocell, and modal— from more sustainable sources. We use the nonprofit Canopy’s tools Amazon Private Brands apparel products Amazon Private"
"Brands apparel products and reports to help avoid fibers sourced from endangered forests, endangered species’ habitats, or other controversial sources. Recycled Fabrics Increase the use of recycled fabrics in Amazon Private Brands apparel 16% 15% products, including moving from conventional to recycled polyester and launching products made from innovative recycled fibers. Polyester in Amazon Private Brands apparel is recycled polyester. Polyester in Amazon Private Brands apparel products is"
"recycled polyester. A Whole Foods Market sells only recycled materials or FSC-certified products. E Scope for Amazon North America and Europe excludes extracts and flavorings. H Scope includes Amazon Private Brands products sold in North America Scope includes Amazon Private Brands paper towel, toilet paper, facial tissue, and Europe in which seafood comprises more than 5% of the product or is baking paper, coffee filter, paper dishware, and napkin products. F Scope excludes matcha, mixes, and"
"“ready-to-drink” beverages. in the top three ingredients. Excludes sauces, marinades, and pet food. The following certifications or programs are accepted for wild-caught seafood: B Scope covers Whole Foods Market Private Brands beef and meat sold in the G Scope includes all products in Whole Foods Market’s seafood department, Marine Stewardship Council; rated Green or Yellow by the Monterey Bay meat department; fresh or frozen beef in Amazon Private Brands in North including frozen and breaded"
"options, appetizers, smoked seafood, and Aquarium Seafood Watch program; or rated A, B, or C in an FIP. The following America and Europe. seafood dips. Whole Foods Market sells only wild-caught seafood from are accepted for farmed seafood: Aquaculture Stewardship Council; European fisheries that are certified sustainable by the Marine Stewardship Council organic or Naturland organic; Best Aquaculture Practices ≥ 2-star; or C Scope covers Amazon and Whole Foods Market Private Brands and meat"
"(MSC) or rated Green or Yellow by the Monterey Bay Aquarium Seafood GLOBALG.A.P. department in North America, including Tiers 2 and 3 of the Consumer Goods Watch program. All our farmed seafood is Responsibly Farmed seafood. Forum Soy Ladder Framework. In Europe, the scope covers soy in Tiers 1–4. A Canned tuna in grocery and in Whole Foods Market’s own kitchens is cut-off date of 2020 means that the soy has not been sourced from land that traceable to the boats and must be sourced from"
"fisheries that are using has been subject to deforestation since the end of 2020. one-by-one catch methods and certified sustainable by the MSC or rated Green or Yellow by the Monterey Bay Aquarium Seafood Watch program. D For Whole Foods Market, only Fair Trade USA is accepted. 53 Overview Progress Appendix Data Tables Priority Topics Assessment Endnotes Assurance Statements Disclaimer and Forward-Looking Statements Priority We also recognize there are topics beyond these priorities Our"
"Priority Topics Our Process that may be relevant to certain aspects of our business or to certain stakeholders. Amazon has programs and Topics The following list represents our priority topics, many of policies in place covering many other topics. While we Our assessment process was guided by leading which are examined in dedicated sections of this report. may reference aspects of additional topics throughout reporting frameworks, including the Global We view many of these topics as"
"interconnected and this report, information about other topics can generally Reporting Initiative (GRI), and consisted of the recognize that making progress in one area can often help Assessment be found on our corporate website and/or our following phases: solve for challenges in another. The following topics are sustainability website . listed in alphabetical order. • Biodiversity Monitoring Our Priorities Identify Topics • Business Ethics Through stakeholder research and industry analysis, we"
"Identifying Our Priorities identified topics that could be relevant to Amazon and We will continue to monitor the relevance of these topics our stakeholders. We started with an long list of topics, • Communities and engage with stakeholders on an ongoing basis. We which we consolidated into a smaller subset of more comprehensive topic groupings. • Corporate Governance will conduct updates or additional assessments as we see Amazon’s business spans many industries, including but changes to our"
"priorities over time. not limited to e-commerce, cloud computing, consumer • Customer Experience and Satisfaction goods, entertainment, and logistics. We operate globally Engage with Stakeholders and employ more than 1.5 million full- and part-time • Data Privacy and Security employees worldwide. This broad scope means that we We mapped key internal and external stakeholder • Emerging Technology must consider how a wide range of topics relate to groups across our value chain. We gathered their"
"input our business. through direct interviews, surveys, and analysis of written • Employee Attraction, Retention, and Development materials that reflect stakeholder perspectives. In 2024, we conducted a comprehensive topic assessment • Inclusive Experiences to inform the contents of this report. We identified the topics that we believe are most relevant to our business • Greenhouse Gas Emissions, Energy, and Climate Change and stakeholders globally as of 2024, most of which are Assess Inputs •"
"Human Rights consistent with past analyses and with the topics covered We analyzed stakeholder inputs using a structured scoring in our past reports. framework. We evaluated each input based on the topics • Labor Rights discussed by the source and the level of detail provided. For each source of input, we assigned a score for all topics • Materials, Waste, and Circularity discussed or referenced. • Policy and Advocacy • Product Safety and Quality Prioritize Topics • Responsible Marketing and"
"Advertising We computed the total scores for each topic based on all stakeholder inputs and ranked topics by their total score. • Water Higher-scoring topics ranked among our higher priorities. We shared these findings with key internal stakeholders and leaders. • Workplace Health and Safety 54 Overview Progress Appendix Data Tables Priority Topics Assessment Endnotes Assurance Statements Disclaimer and Forward-Looking Statements Endnotes 12. International Data Corporation, 2H24 Datacenter"
"Trends: Sustainable 31. Being water positive means AWS will return more water to communities 45. Reduced-time employees are those who work 30 hours per week, as Datacenter Builds and CO2 Emissions Doc # US51911924, January and the environment than its direct operations use. AWS measures defined by the threshold of requiring employees to provide health 2025. A 1.0 PUE is a theoretical number, implying that all the energy progress annually against this goal by adding together reused water and"
"insurance for workers who work 30 hours per week or more under consumed by a data center is being used to power computing water from replenishment projects and dividing that number by total U.S. law. equipment and that none is wasted on cooling or other infrastructure. water withdrawal minus water from sustainable sources. As we improve 46. Employees in Ireland have access to integrated private health insurance Learn more in our Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) Methodology water efficiency, we"
"also reduce how much incoming water we use. and coverage, which includes EAP and wellness services. 13. The embodied carbon calculation uses the Carbon Leadership Forum’s 32. WWF, Living Planet Report . 47. In the General Warehousing and Storage industry, Amazon benchmarks (CLF) 2021 baseline. CLF baselines represent an estimate of 33. The concept of salience uses the lens of risk to people, not to the itself against the industry average for employers with >1,000 employees. industry-average GHG"
"emissions for construction materials 1. Supply chains focus on sourcing materials and delivering goods to business, as the starting point, while recognizing that where risks manufactured in North America. 48. In the Courier and Express Delivery Services industry, Amazon customers. Value chains include upstream supply chain as well as to people’s human rights are greatest, there is often strong convergence benchmarks itself against the industry average for employers with downstream delivery to"
"customers, customer use of products, and 14. Renewable natural gas (RNG) is created by decomposing organic waste with risks to the business. UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework . 250–999 employees. end-of-life of products. materials anaerobically (without oxygen). 34. We review our Supply Chain Standards at least every three years, 49. All these numbers and other comparisons are based on the rates 2. Carbon-free energy includes existing renewable energy technologies, 15. World Steel in"
"Figures . working with external stakeholders to align our requirements with Amazon has reported to applicable regulators or are otherwise derived such as wind and solar farms and on-site rooftop solar systems, as well current best practices and regulatory standards. Please refer to our most 16. Natural pozzolans are cement clinker substitutes that enable cement to from the same tracking systems used for that reporting. as other sources that generate carbon-free energy, such as nuclear recent"
"update as mentioned in our 2022 Sustainability Report . be produced at a lower temperature, creating fewer emissions. reactors, hydroelectric, and geothermal. Our investments also include 50. Global operations in reference to health and safety rates means 35. Supplier audits are conducted for businesses manufacturing site energy contracts and green tariffs with local utilities that result in 17. CarbonCure is a commercialized portfolio of carbon removal fulfillment (Amazon Robotics sortable,"
"traditional non-sort, in-bound Amazon-branded products, products under Amazon’s patent or new wind and solar projects being added to the grid. technologies that consume carbon dioxide (CO ) in concrete during cross dock), transportation (sort center, delivery station, and air), and 2 trademark, third-party labor, service, and not-for-resale goods providers production, permanently sequestering CO and enabling the reduction Amazon Robotics operations facilities. 3. As detailed in our Renewable"
"Energy Methodology , to calculate the 2 in our logistics, warehousing, and construction supply chain. of cement content in mixes without impacting concrete performance. percentage of renewable energy matched by the electricity consumed by 51. According to the USDA, 1.2 pounds is the equivalent to one meal. $1 36. Manufacturing sites that are covered by Better Work. our global operations, we evaluate both the amount of renewable energy 18. According to BloombergNEF. helps to provide at least 10"
"meals secured by Feeding America on behalf from Amazon’s projects and the renewable energy in the grid. This total 37. Includes data for businesses manufacturing Amazon-branded products, of local partner food banks. 19. United Nations Environment Programme, Methane emissions are driving renewable energy is then compared to Amazon’s total energy use. products under Amazon’s patent or trademark, third-party labor, service, climate change . 52. We partnered with a third-party provider, Supplier.io,"
"to manage the and not-for-resale goods providers in our logistics, warehousing, and 4. In our 2022 and 2023 Reports, we stated this goal had been met impact on communities through our suppliers’ Tier 1 spend, with metrics 20. WEF Net Zero Industry Tracker 2024 . construction supply chain. with contracted energy capacity. In 2024, the contracted energy that report Tier 2 outcomes. became operational. 21. Cement and concrete constitute approximately 8% of all global 38. Data for 2022 and 2023"
"represents findings from audits of 53. We partnered with a third-party provider, Proximo, to manage the emissions, and demand is expected to grow significantly by 2050. Amazon-branded product suppliers only. 2024 data has an expanded 5. Electric delivery vans include Rivian and vans from other electric vehicle impact on communities through Amazon’s SDI Tier 1 spend, with metrics scope that includes both Amazon-branded product suppliers and third- manufacturers. 22. Amazon, Microsoft, Mundy’s,"
"Ryan Companies, Prologis, Trammell Crow that report economic impact outcomes. party labor, service, and not-for-resale goods providers in our logistics, (CBRE), Deloitte, AECOM, and CarbonCure. 6. Electric delivery vehicles include four-wheel (electric delivery vans), warehousing, and construction supply chain. three-wheel, two-wheel, and e-mopeds. 23. Carbon credits are certificates that are purchased to offset the emissions 39. This 2024 data includes third-party labor, service, and not-for-"
"resale of a certain amount of CO or other GHGs. 7. Amazon’s carbon footprint is reported in metric tons of carbon dioxide 2 goods providers in our logistics, warehousing, and construction supply equivalent (MTCO e), where each metric ton of CO emissions represents 24. IPCC Cross-Chapter Paper 7: Tropical Forests . chain, which was not included in 2023 and 2022. 2 2 the same global warming potential as one metric ton of another 25. Goal scope covers food that is considered inventory. It is"
"measured with 40. Addressed is defined as assessed, investigated, and resolved, greenhouse gas. Learn more in our Carbon Methodology . a food waste intensity metric that calculates the amount where applicable. 8. Carbon intensity measures emissions growth against the growth of the of food waste generated as a percentage of total food handled 41. Whole Foods Market refers to Whole Foods Market in the U.S., unless business. Carbon intensity at Amazon is measured in grams of CO e per within Amazon."
"2 stated otherwise. dollar of gross merchandise sales (g CO e/$GMS). 2 26. Amazon’s landfill diversion rate is a measure of both the waste we 42. A switch is defined as a customer who purchases a product recognized 9. We regularly refine our carbon measurement approach to improve successfully divert to recycling and what we send to incineration with by certifications in the Climate Pledge Friendly program and has accuracy. In 2024, we updated our emissions data sources, which led us energy"
"recovery. purchased only products not recognized by Climate Pledge Friendly On the cover to recalculate our 2022 and 2023 figures. While we did not apply these 27. United Nations Climate Change, Food loss and waste . within the past two years in the same product category. new methods to 2021 and earlier data, year-over-year comparisons Image 1: Our Euclid, Ohio, fulfillment center is the first in the U.S. to remain possible, though the methodology differs between 2024 and 28. Global includes the"
"following regions and countries: North America (U.S. 43. UL’s Zero Waste to Landfill methodology defines Silver-level sites as replace plastic delivery packaging with paper packaging solutions that 2019 carbon intensity calculations. and Canada), Europe (Europe and UK), and Rest of World (Australia, those diverting 90%–94%, Gold-level sites as those diverting 95%–99%, are curbside recyclable. Brazil, Egypt, India, Japan, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Africa and Platinum-level sites as"
"those diverting 100% of waste, according to 10. A free, publicly available website of previously proprietary information Image 2: In India, we collaborated with NeoMotion to expand our delivery and the United Arab Emirates). the UL 2799 standard. that will help other companies make meaningful progress toward fleet by incorporating electric wheelchairs, supporting associates who use net-zero carbon emissions. 29. Ships in Product Packaging was formerly called Ships in Own Container. 44. Based on"
"EU and U.S. data, not a guarantee of future performance. wheelchairs to deliver packages. Amazon 2024 Commissioned study with a PhD from USC Marshall 11. PUE measures the energy consumed by a data center to power 30. BOTTLE: Bio-Optimized Technologies to keep Thermoplastics out of Image 3: In Madison County, Ohio, we’ve enabled one of the first School of Business . computing equipment, cooling, and other data center infrastructure Landfills and the Environment . utility-scale solar projects in"
"the U.S. that is intentionally integrating forage to support operations. crop production—crops used as feedstock—between rows of solar panels. 55 Overview Progress Appendix Data Tables Priority Topics Assessment Endnotes Assurance Statements Disclaimer and Forward-Looking Statements Assurance Statements Disclaimer and Forward-Looking Please see our 2024 assurance statements at the links below: Statements The information and opinions contained in this report and difficult to predict. We use words"
"such as aim, Amazon Scopes Devices Renewable are provided as of the date of this report and are subject anticipate, believe, commit, drive, estimate, ensure, to change without notice. Amazon does not undertake expect, goal, intend, may, mission, plan, project, seek, 1 and 2 Assurance Energy Assurance to update or revise any such statements. This report strategy, strive, target, will, or similar expressions to represents current Amazon policy and intent and is identify forward-looking statements."
"Forward-looking not intended to create legal rights or obligations. This statements reflect management’s current expectations report may contain, or incorporate by reference, public and inherently involve risks and uncertainties. Actual Download Download information not separately reviewed, approved, or results and outcomes could differ materially for a variety endorsed by Amazon, and no representation, warranty, of reasons, including, among others, assumptions not or undertaking is made by"
"Amazon as to the accuracy, being realized, changing climate-related conditions and reasonableness, or completeness of such information. weather events, scientific or technological developments, Amazon Scope 3 Amazon Plastic Inclusion of information in this report may be based on evolving sustainability strategies, changes in carbon Assurance Packaging Assurance a variety of standards, frameworks, and considerations markets, evolving government regulations or policies, our and is not an"
"indication that the subject or information expansion into new products, services, technologies, and is material to Amazon’s business, strategy, outlook, geographic regions, or other changes in circumstances, as operating results, or financial condition or to its well as the factors set forth in the “Risk Factors” section stakeholders, nor material as it relates to Amazon’s impact of Amazon’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K Download Download on other parties or sustainability matters. This"
"report was and subsequent filings. The standards of measurement originally drafted in English and then translated into other and performance contained in the report are developing languages. The English version is the authoritative version. and based on assumptions, and no assurance can be given Amazon Renewable that any plan, initiative, projection, goal, commitment, This report includes forward-looking statements within expectation, or prospect set forth in this report can or will Energy"
"Assurance the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform be achieved. Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical or current facts, including statements regarding our plans, initiatives, projections, goals, commitments, expectations, or prospects, are forward-looking. These Download forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain 56 Published July 2025 | sustainability.aboutamazon.com 57"
