"Sustainability at Bank of America  Published on September 30, 2024  Table of Contents  2 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO  ................................................................................... 4  INTRODUCTION     ................................................................................................... 5  Our Company and Eight Lines of Business    ....................................................... 6  Environmental Actions to Date"
"......................................................................... 7  GOVERNANCE     ..................................................................................................... 9  Enterprise Governance and Execution of Climate-related Risks and  Opportunities    .................................................................................................. 10  Board of Directors Oversight    ........................................................................... 11"
"Management Oversight     ................................................................................... 12  Enterprise Functional Teams    ............................................................................ 13  Performance and Remuneration  ....................................................................... 15  STRATEGY    ........................................................................................................... 16  Minimize BAC’s Impact on the Environment"
"..................................................... 19  Support and Enable Clients to Achieve Net Zero by 2050       ................................. 31  Actions and Dependencies toward Achieving our Goals     ..................................... 48  Advocate and Engage Stakeholders     ................................................................. 49  RISK MANAGEMENT    ........................................................................................... 57  Risk Identification"
"............................................................................................ 59  Risk Measurement by Risk Type   ....................................................................... 61  Climate Scenario Analysis    ................................................................................ 64  METRICS AND TARGETS    ............................................................................................ 68  Sustainable Finance"
"............................................................................................... 69  Financing Activity     ................................................................................................... 72  Environmental Operations and Supply Chain    ........................................................... 81  CONCLUSION AND LOOKING AHEAD    .............................................................................. 91  INDEXES"
".................................................................................................................... 92  ISSB Recommendations Index     ................................................................................ 92  GRI Index     ............................................................................................................... 96  Transition Plan Index    .............................................................................................. 106  APPENDIX"
".................................................................................................................... 108  Key Partnerships    .................................................................................................... 108  Environmental and Social Assurance Statements   .................................................... 110  Financed Emissions Verification Statement    ............................................................ 118  Disclaimers"
"............................................................................................................ 124  Cautionary Information and Forward-Looking Statements  This document contains statements regarding Responsible Growth and environmental, social and  governance information and opinions, including metrics, aspirations, targets, goals, commitments,  efforts, programs, cumulative values and sustainability objectives (all of the foregoing and any  other contents of this document being,"
"collectively, the Sustainability Information). The  Sustainability Information included in this document may consider disclosure recommendations  and definitions of materiality used by certain voluntary external frameworks and reporting  guidelines that are broader than or may differ from mandatory regulatory reporting, including the  reporting requirements of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Accordingly, any  such Sustainability Information may be presented from a different"
"perspective and in more detail  than in Bank of America Corporation’s (Company) SEC and other regulatory reports, and  materiality and any use of the term “material” in the context of the Sustainability Information may  be distinct from such term as defined by courts or regulatory bodies in the U.S. or other  jurisdictions, including for SEC reporting purposes. Any inclusion of Sustainability Information in  this document is not an indication that the subject or information is material to the"
"Company for  SEC reporting purposes or any other purposes. Any references to “sustainability,” “sustainable  investing,” “sustainable finance,” “green,” “environmental, social and governance (ESG)” or similar  terms in this document are not intended to reflect any jurisdiction-specific regulatory definition,  unless otherwise stated. Sustainability Information may be based on current or historic  aspirations, goals, targets, commitments, efforts, programs, estimates, assumptions, standards,"
"metrics, methodologies and internal control frameworks and currently available data, which  continue to evolve and develop. Any statements made in connection with the Company’s  aspirations, goals, targets or commitments, efforts or programs are not guarantees or promises  that they will be met. The Company and its affiliates may be engaged in certain business activities  which could have increased investor, client, employee, regulatory scrutiny and/or scrutiny from  other parties generally from"
"an ESG perspective. The Sustainability Information is as of the date  referenced, subject to change without notice and may be regarded as for illustrative purposes  only.  Such Sustainability Information may also include the use of financial and nonfinancial metrics and/  or other information that vary in source, quality, timeliness and completeness and are subject to  significant measurement uncertainties and updates, which may include the methodology,  collection and verification of complex"
"data, estimates, judgments and assumptions and/or  underlying data that is obtained from multiple third parties, often which we cannot independently  verify. For additional information, see Other Data Challenges on page 80. This document has not  been externally audited: limited or reasonable assurance has been provided with respect to certain  information as detailed in the Environmental and Social Assurance Statements section.  Additionally, certain statements contained in this document may"
"constitute “forward-looking”  statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including  sustainability-related statements regarding our aspirations, targets, goals, commitments, efforts  or programs such as our commitment to achieve Net Zero greenhouse gas emissions before  2050 in our financing activities, operations and supply chain, interim 2030 Net Zero greenhouse  gas emissions targets, including financed emissions targets and sustainable finance"
"commitments, which may evolve over time and are the subject of proposed legislative and  regulatory changes in multiple jurisdictions, which may have a material impact on our future  measurement and reporting, as well as the results of the efforts and programs set forth in this  document. We use words such as “anticipates,” “targets,” “expects,” “hopes,” “estimates,” “intends,”  “plans,” “goals,” “believes,” “continue” and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs  such as “will,”"
"“may,” “might,” “should,” “would” and “could” to identify forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements are not based on historical facts, but reflect management’s current  expectations, plans or forecasts, are not guarantees of future results or performance, involve  certain known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict and  often beyond the Company’s control and are inherently uncertain. You should not place undue  reliance on any forward-"
"looking statement. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially  from those expressed in, or implied by, any of these forward-looking statements due to a variety  of factors, including global socio-demographic and economic trends, energy prices, technological  innovations and advances, climate-related conditions and weather events, legislative and  regulatory changes, public policies, engagement with clients, suppliers, investors, government  officials and other stakeholders, the quality"
"and availability of third-party data, including data  measured, tracked and provided by data providers, our clients and other stakeholders, our ability to  gather and verify data, our ability to successfully implement sustainability-related initiatives under  expected time frames, third-party compliance with our expectations, policies and procedures and  other unforeseen events or conditions. Discussion of additional factors, including uncertainties and  risks, can be found in the Company’s 2023"
"Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent SEC  filings. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and the Company  undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect the impact  of circumstances or events that arise after the date the forward-looking statement was made.  Additionally, this document may contain statements based on hypothetical or severely adverse  scenarios and assumptions, which may not occur or may differ significantly"
"from actual events.  These statements should not necessarily be viewed as being representative of current or actual  risk or forecasts of expected risk.  Website references and/or links throughout this document are provided for convenience only and  the content on the referenced websites is not incorporated by reference into this document. Any  third-party website references and/or links do not imply an affiliation, sponsorship, endorsement,  etc. This document was published on September 30,"
"2024 and is provided by the Company on  behalf of itself and of its direct and indirect legal and operating subsidiaries and their branch  operations worldwide, as applicable, and Sustainability Information contained herein is not  particular to any legal entity, product, or service unless otherwise specified. 3  Message from the CEO  At Bank of America, our purpose is to help make  financial lives better. We do this by driving  Responsible Growth as we deliver for our clients,  teammates,"
"shareholders, and communities.  We ask them: What would you like the power to do?  We listen to their unique answers, and then we get  to work, developing and providing the necessary  products and services across our eight lines of  business.  One area in which we gain a range of insights from  our clients is their perspectives on energy. The work underway in this area across all  industries in every corner of the world is driven by the need for more secure,  affordable, and sustainable energy"
"coupled with the emergence and growth of clean  energy technologies. This is creating significant opportunities for our clients and for  Bank of America as we help our clients address these opportunities. At the same time,  geopolitics and other factors highlight the risks to a ready supply of energy across the  communities and in the many countries in which we support clients. Societal  perspectives and the decisions of government policymakers are also key drivers; these  perspectives and"
"decisions vary greatly and can change quickly in the many countries,  and even individual U.S. states, in which we operate.    We approach the energy transition with a desire for a just transition across every  dimension. The economic, financial, and societal aspects of the transition will attract  trillions of dollars of investment every year over the next several decades. The private  sector is bringing creativity and capital to this work. While new voluntary and regulatory  frameworks have"
"been developed to help chart the path of an energy transition, much  of the work we are doing with clients reflects both old and new business opportunities  that do not depend on these more recent developments. Where we do see challenges  or obstacles to doing even more, we engage in private-public sector collaboration  where appropriate to help facilitate a balanced and effective approach.    We play an important and valuable role by supporting our clients and communities in  their transitions."
"We do this by helping them understand the risk and opportunities in  an energy transition – and by offering our products and services to help them  implement their transition goals and plans.  We also engage with many non-profit organizations and with governments to help  them understand the private sector perspectives and to learn from them about theirs.  One example of how we foster collaboration among the private sector is the  Sustainable Markets Initiative (SMI), which I have the honor to"
"chair.  The SMI, which was founded by His Majesty King Charles III in his previous role as  Prince of Wales, brings together CEOs from companies across every industry and  region. Working together, the companies these CEOs lead are addressing the business  risk and opportunities presented by the twin goals of a clean energy and nature- positive future.  This document provides a comprehensive perspective about the role we see for  ourselves, working with our clients, in a just transition to a"
"more sustainable future. We  do this by managing our own climate-related risk and by striving to reduce the impact  of our operations on the environment. Still, our biggest contribution towards a just  energy transition comes through the work we do by helping our clients meet their own  goals and targets.    Our work includes a goal to achieve net zero in our financing, operations, and supply  chain before 2050. We set that goal in 2021, when we also set out greenhouse gas  emission and"
"environmental targets for our operations and supply chain. To help our  clients meet their plans, we also set a target of mobilizing and deploying $1.5 trillion  towards sustainable finance by 2030. Of this, $1 trillion is focused on the  environmental transition, with the remainder dedicated to inclusive social development.  In the first three years since announcing the $1.5 trillion goal in 2021, we have  mobilized and deployed $560 billion in sustainable finance, of which more than $316"
"billion aligns to the transition to a sustainable, low-carbon economy. These figures  almost certainly understate the full level of our clients’ activities in these areas.  I want to re-emphasize what we see as the most important point of all: helping our  clients - and our suppliers - achieve their own transition goals is creating significant  opportunity. Our clients, including those in the high-emitting manufacturing and energy  industries, are heavily invested in clean energy technology and"
"innovation. These  industries are key to economic prosperity and dependable energy. Through all of this  and more, we are helping them create new jobs around the world.  Every day we serve our clients and engage in our communities to address  important societal challenges and opportunity. All of this is core to how we deliver  Responsible Growth.  -Brian Moynihan, Chair and CEO, Bank of America 4  Introduction  Bank of America Corporation (Bank of America or the Company) is committed to using"
"our expertise to deliver results for our teammates, clients and shareholders while  helping address today’s biggest challenges. Our focus on profits and purpose is  embedded across our eight lines of business. We are guided by Responsible Growth:  • Grow and win in the market, no excuses.  • Grow with a customer focus.  • Grow within our risk framework.  • Grow in a sustainable manner: driving operational excellence, making our  company a great place to work and sharing our success.  This focus"
"reflects how we help fuel the global economy, build trust and credibility and  enable people to want to work for, invest in and do business with our Company.  We have long recognized the importance of addressing sustainability - partnering  closely with clients and dedicating significant intellectual and financial capital to  advance both low-carbon and socially-inclusive solutions1. We address climate-related  risks and opportunities by focusing on our own environmental impact, engaging with"
"clients on their transition paths to a low-carbon economy, managing climate-related  risks with the same rigor we apply to other risks at the Company and working with  governments and markets to accelerate change. We address social sustainability  through our strong employee programs (e.g. benefits, leadership training, etc.), leading  third party practices, balanced product design and deep local community programs.  As the landscape of sustainability disclosure continues to progress, we are"
"working  within the International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) S2 Climate-related  Disclosures framework, which incorporates the Task Force on Climate-Related  Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework used for our 2020, 2022 and 2023 climate  reports. We have also expanded sustainability coverage through inclusion of the Global  Reporting Initiative (GRI) index - which includes metrics on social and community  support – and align various performance metrics to the United Nations’"
"Sustainable  Development Goals (SDGs).  Refer to our 2023 Annual Report to shareholders (Annual Report) for disclosure against  the World Economic Forum International Business Council stakeholder capitalism metrics  and how we share success with communities.  Updates to our climate strategy and Net Zero2 goal in this publication include:  • Setting and disclosing new 2030 Financing Activity Targets3 for iron and steel, and  maritime shipping;  • Developing our approach for a Just Transition and"
"issues at the climate-nature nexus; and  • Working across the enterprise to address the decarbonization needed in key high- emitting sectors.  These updates reflect components of our Transition Plan, which align with  our climate strategy, and are contained within and visually marked with this  symbol (see also: Transition Plan Index in the Appendix).  Our sustainability strategy centers on engagement and partnership with both internal  and external parties - including employees, clients,"
"investors and shareholders,  communities, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), advocates, regulators and  policymakers and suppliers. In preparing this document, we collected feedback from a  range of stakeholders to understand key areas of focus and concern.  We also acknowledge that our Net Zero goal reflects a voluntary objective that is based  on some factors within our control and some that we do not control. When we discuss  those areas in which we have made commitments, we recognize"
"there are external  factors that could impact our ability to reach those goals and targets. We commit to  working with our clients, understanding their own transition plans, and sharing our  expertise and capabilities to help our clients deliver on their plans. We commit to the  deployment of capital to help advance clean energy and innovative technology, and we  are well along the $1.5 trillion, ten-year goal we made. At the same time, we operate in  the context of policies, government"
"decision-making and prioritization and other factors  that are beyond our control. We will continue to provide our perspective that the  transition is important and necessary, and that the transition creates significant  opportunity for Bank of America in support of our clients.    INTRODUCTION Home 5 1 Bank of America is focused on social inclusive development, scaling capital to community development, affordable housing, healthcare and education, in addition to racial and gender equality - see"
"https://  about.bankofamerica.com/en/making-an-impact for more details  2 “Net Zero” is the point at which human-caused greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions going into the atmosphere have been reduced as much as possible and remaining GHG emissions are balanced by carbon  removal out of the atmosphere (source: World Resources Institute). In 2021, Bank of America committed to achieving Net Zero before 2050 in our financing activities, operations and supply chain (Net Zero  goal). We believe achieving"
"Net Zero by 2050 on a global scale is a fundamental component of limiting global temperature rise to 1.5oC above pre-industrial levels, per the Paris Agreement (COP21; ratified in  2016).  3 Bank of America has set targets to reduce the emission intensity of its loan portfolios in key high-emitting sectors by 2030. See Minimizing BAC’s Impact on the Environment: Financing Activity within the  Strategy section of this document for more details. See also the Company’s announcement of these"
"targets: https://newsroom.bankofamerica.com/content/newsroom/press-releases/2022/04/bank-of- america-announces-2030-financing-activity-targets-as-par.html    INTRODUCTION Home 6 Our Company and Eight Lines of Business  CONSUMER BANKING  Retail Banking  Serves mass market U.S. consumers with a full range of financial products and  services through award-winning digital banking capabilities, backed by a  financial center network.  Preferred Banking  Provides personalized solutions, valuable"
"rewards, and advice and guidance  for clients with more complex banking, borrowing and investing needs as well  as for small businesses with revenues of up to $5 million.  GLOBAL WEALTH & INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT  Merrill  Serves high-net-worth and ultra-high-net-worth clients. Anchored in financial  planning, our personal advisor relationships allow us to help individual  investors and their families plan for and achieve their unique financial goals by  investing and providing access to banking"
"and lending services.  Private Bank  Serves ultra-high-net-worth clients with investable assets of more than $3  million through teams with specialized expertise in wealth and estate planning,  investment management, banking and custom lending.  GLOBAL BANKING  Business Banking  Delivers advisory and banking services for deposits, credit, treasury, trade,  foreign exchange, equipment finance and merchant services to U.S.  companies with annual revenues of $5 million to $50 million through"
"locally  based client relationship teams.  Global Commercial Banking  Serves middle-market companies with revenues of $50 million to $2 billion  across all major industries—delivering the full capabilities of the Company,  including treasury, lending, leasing, advisory, debt and equity underwriting  and digital solutions.  Global Corporate & Investment Banking  Provides investment banking advisory, underwriting and distribution services  to companies of all sizes around the world and across all"
"major industries. It  also offers financing, deposit and other treasury services globally to  corporations with revenues of more than $2 billion in the U.S. and more than  $1 billion internationally.  GLOBAL MARKETS  Provides services across the world’s debt, equity, commodity and foreign- exchange markets. This includes liquidity, hedging strategies, industry-leading  insights, analytics and competitive pricing to approximately 8,000 clients  consisting of asset managers, hedge funds, pensions"
"and insurance,  corporates, governments and other financial institutions.  Environmental Actions to Date  Bank of America’s commitment to reaching Net Zero builds on 20 years of climate leadership. Since 2003, the Company has been a leader in environmental reporting,  reducing operational impacts and scaling climate finance.    INTRODUCTION Home 7 2003  Began disclosing  Scopes 1 and 2 GHG  emissions through  CDP.  2004  Published  first Global  Reporting  Initiative (GRI)  report.  2005"
"Established first Scopes 1 and 2  GHG emissions reduction goal.  2007  Launched first sustainable  finance goal – our  Environmental Business  Initiative – to mobilize $20  billion over 10 years.  2010  • Began disclosing  Scope 3 GHG  emissions.  • Launched internal  employee program,  My Environment®.  2011  Announced first set of  comprehensive  environmental  operations goals.  2013  Assisted in drafting  the Green Bond  Principles and issued  our first benchmark  corporate green  bond."
"2015  Announced an additional $125 billion commitment  under our Environmental Business Initiative after  early achievement of our previous commitment.  2016  Committed to using 100% renewable electricity and reaching  carbon neutrality for our operations by 2020.  2019  Achieved renewable electricity and  carbon neutrality goals one year  early and announced a new 10-year,  $300 billion commitment under our  Environment Business Initiative.  2020  • Released our first TCFD report.  • Became"
"founding partner of Rocky Mountain  Institute’s Center for Climate-Aligned Finance.  • Joined the Partnership for Carbon Accounting  Financials as a core member.  • CEO Brian Moynihan became co-chair of the  Sustainable Markets Initiative (SMI).  2021  • Began disclosing the WEF International Business  Council metrics in our Annual Report.  • Committed to Net Zero emissions before 2050  for our financing activities, operations and  supply chain.  • Announced $1.5 trillion by 2030 Sustainable"
"Finance commitment.  • Became a founding member of the Net-Zero  Banking Alliance, which serves as the banking  element of the Glasgow Financial Alliance for  Net-Zero.  • Became a founding member of the Sustainable  Aviation Buyers Alliance (SABA).  2022  • Announced 2030 targets for reducing emissions associated  with financing activities related to auto manufacturing,  energy and power generation. This process is also known  as “financed emissions”.  • Released Approach to Zero™, which"
"details our Net Zero  GHG emissions approach and target setting process.  • Set 2030 Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF) goals for  sustainable finance mobilization and the Company’s  corporate and commercial jet fuel usage.  • Released our second TCFD report, in which we disclosed  Scope 3 financed emissions and emissions intensity  metrics for the auto manufacturing, energy and power  generations sectors.  2023  • Set 2030 financed emissions targets for  cement and aviation, and disclosed Scope 3"
"financed emissions and emissions intensity  metrics for these sectors.  • Received Terra Carta Seal from SMI.  • Developed a Climate Risk Framework.  2024  • Set financed  emissions targets for  the maritime  shipping and iron  and steel sectors.  • Announced a  commitment to be a  TNFD Early Adopter.  Key Environmental Achievements Since Last Publication  Set new goals and targets4 and made progress toward existing:  In 2023, exceeded our 2030 SAF  usage goal of 20%; SAF  accounted for 31% of"
"our  corporate and commercial jet fuel  usage.  Set and disclosed new 2030  Financing Activity Targets for iron  and steel and maritime shipping.  In 2023, we mobilized and deployed  ~$150B against our 10-year $1.5T  sustainable finance goal, of which $81B  was for environmental transition. This  brings our cumulative total, since the  goal announcement in 2021, to $560B -  of which $316B was for climate and  environmental transition.  Enhanced internal processes to manage toward existing goals"
"and targets:  Developed an internal Transition  Plan, components of which are  contained in this document (see  Transition Plan Index in the  Appendix).  Enhanced processes to manage our  2030 Financing Activity Targets,  including the creation of a Target  Management Forum.  Enhanced our risk identification and  climate-related scenario analysis  processes.  Signaled our intent to become an early adopter of the TNFD’s reporting framework5:  The Company has been a member of the 40-person Task"
"Force on Nature-Related Financial Disclosures (TNFD) since  September 2021. In January 2024, we were one of 320 companies including financial institutions to signal intent to become an  early adopter of the TNFD’s reporting framework. Over time, we plan to increase the nature content in our annual disclosures,  particularly as more guidance is expected from both TNFD and others on the subject of integrating nature into transition plans.    4 We currently do not plan to set targets for the"
"agriculture, aluminum, thermal coal mining, commercial or residential real estate or other sectors for a variety of reasons, such as immaterial exposure, lack of  climate scenarios and methodologies for these sectors and data quality challenges. See Strategy section, Additional Details for more.  5 Being a TNFD early adopter means disclosing against at least 1 of the 14 TNFD recommended disclosure areas starting in 2026 based on FY 2025 data and then building incrementally over time."
"INTRODUCTION Home 8  GOVERNANCE  Proper management of climate-related risks and opportunities through oversight starting with the  Company’s Board of Directors (Board) and management committees through to business councils,   forums and steering groups.  Our governance framework establishes oversight of our climate strategy by the Board and management-level committees and forums. Additionally, across  our lines of business, risk and control functions, we have routines in place to help deliver"
"decisions in a timely manner, escalate risks and issues and  achieve milestones. These councils and steering groups provide management oversight of activities related to the financial risks and opportunities from  climate change and of sustainability-related regulatory requirements. From an international perspective, sustainability-related strategic, risk and regulatory  governance routines are conducted in each region (Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA), Latin America (LATAM) and Asia"
"Pacific (APAC) and for certain  legal entities.    GOVERNANCE 9  GOVERNANCE Home 10 Enterprise Governance and Execution of Climate-related Risks and Opportunities  BOARD-LEVEL  DIRECTORS AND  COMMITTEES  Oversees all environmental and social sustainability-related matters, including climate risks and opportunities,  and engages with management on strategic climate topics, including the Company’s Net Zero goal  Enterprise Risk Committee  Oversees risks, including  reputational and climate risks"
"Audit Committee  Oversees the integrity of our  financial reporting including  sustainability-related disclosures  Compensation and Human  Capital Committee  Oversees human capital management  practices, including compensation  programs  Corporate Governance, ESG and  Sustainability Committee (CGESC)  Oversees social and environmental  sustainability matters generally, other  than human capital matters  MANAGEMENT-LEVEL  COMMITTEES  & COUNCILS  Accountable for execution of the climate strategy,"
"including climate risk management  Management Risk Committee  Oversees all company risks, including climate risk  Regional and LOB Reputational  Risk Committees  Oversee and review business  activities that present elevated  levels of reputational risk  Regional and LOB Risk  Committees  Embed climate risk into  key risk considerations  across LOBs  Legal Entity  Risk Committees  Review and oversee risks at  the legal entity-level, including  climate-related risks  Responsible Growth Council*"
"Oversees our mandate to grow in a sustainable  manner and works to accelerate our progress on  social and environmental initiatives  ESG Disclosure Council  Oversees accuracy, completeness and  timeliness of ESG-related disclosures  ENTERPRISE FUNCTIONAL  AND CLIENT-FACING  GROUPS WITH  SUSTAINABILITY  EXPERTISE  Enterprise Functional Groups  Global  Climate and  Environmental  Risk Group  Global  Environmental  Group within the  Global Public Policy  Group  Corporate  Social  Responsibility"
"Group  Corporate  Sustainability  Controller  Client-Facing Groups  Global Sustainable  Finance Group  Sustainable Banking  Solutions Group  Business Banking and  Global Commercial  Banking Sustainability  Team  *Note: The Board’s CGESC regularly receives updates from the Responsible Growth Council (RGC) on sustainability matters.  Board of Directors Oversight  GOVERNANCE Home 11 The Company’s Board oversees the business and affairs of the Company, providing active and independent oversight of"
"management, including  management’s development and execution of our climate-related strategy and activities. Our directors are seasoned leaders who bring deep  and diverse experience from a range of industries and backgrounds. Their perspectives, experiences and expertise help inform and guide how  we deliver long-term, sustainable value for our shareholders and share success with our communities.  Our Board is keenly focused on its composition and succession planning. When  evaluating and"
"identifying director candidates, the Board considers the experiences,  skills and expertise that are critical to its ability to provide effective oversight of the  Company and are directly relevant to our Company’s business, strategy and operations.  In addition, the Board, through its Corporate Governance, ESG and Sustainability  Committee (CGESC), follows applicable regulations in confirming that the Board  includes members with an understanding of risk management principles, policies and"
"practices, and experience in identifying, assessing and managing risk exposures6. Our Board understands the importance of director education to directors in fulfilling  their oversight responsibilities. All new directors participate in our director orientation  program during their first six months of service, through a series of meetings with  management representing all business and staff areas. Continuing director education  is provided as part of formal Board and committee meetings and as"
"stand-alone  information sessions outside of those meetings. For example, in 2023, in response to  director input, our Board and committees held more frequent discussions with  management on implementation of the Company’s sustainability initiatives, climate  activities and new climate disclosure requirements7. In 2024, at the CGESC’s request,  the Board held a stand-alone information session to review the Company’s  sustainability initiatives, including its voluntary commitments and the"
"regulatory  requirements it is subject to. The Board has adopted thoughtful governance practices and processes consistent  with the Company’s drive toward Responsible Growth. A key tenet of Responsible  Growth is to grow in a sustainable manner. The Board and its committees actively  oversee the Company’s drive to grow in a sustainable manner through comprehensive  governance and risk oversight practices, including through regular review and  discussion of climate-related topics.   For example:"
"• The Board receives periodic presentations from management on climate topics, including the Company’s progress toward its Net Zero goal and sustainable finance target. • The Board’s Enterprise Risk Committee (ERC) oversees risk, including reputational risk and climate risk8, and receives updates as needed on the continued enhancement to and evolution of the Company’s climate risk management efforts and overall climate program. The Board and the ERC receive risk reporting on key and emerging"
"risks, including climate risk. • The Board’s CGESC, which has specific responsibility for overseeing the Company’s environmental and social sustainability-related activities and practices, reviews (at least annually) the Company’s climate-related work, including its sustainable finance activities, 2030 Financing Activity Targets and certain climate reports. • The Board’s Audit Committee oversees the integrity of the Company’s financial reporting, including sustainability-related disclosures, and"
"reviews the Company’s enterprise climate disclosures in its financial reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The Audit Committee also receives regular updates on the evolving regulatory landscape and development of climate-related disclosure requirements. • The Board’s Compensation and Human Capital Committee oversees the Company’s human capital management practices and promotes strong governance of our pay-for-performance compensation philosophy, which includes"
"considerations related to growth in a sustainable manner with focused sustainability leadership, as detailed in the Performance and Remuneration section. 6 See Bank of America 2024 Proxy Statement for additional details. 7 In response to feedback provided through the formal and informal components of the Board’s self-evaluation processes in 2023. 8 In the Company’s Risk Framework and Risk Appetite Statement (RAS), climate risk is identified as a risk spanning all seven key risk types (strategic,"
"credit, market, liquidity, operational, compliance and  reputational) and the RAS includes a qualitative component outlining how the Company manages climate risk in a manner consistent with Responsible Growth.    GOVERNANCE Home 12   Management Oversight  Supporting the Board in its oversight of climate-related and transition planning activities are management-level committees and  councils comprised of senior leaders across every major line of business and control function9. Our Transition Plan"
"is aligned with  and integrated into key processes across the Company including strategic and financial planning, and assessment and  management of climate-related risks. By integrating climate risk and transition planning into our core enterprise routines, the  opportunities and risks stemming from climate change are embedded in our core evaluation and decision-making tools and processes to  support our and our clients’ transition commitments.  The Management Risk Committee (MRC), co-chaired by"
"our chief executive officer  (CEO) and chief risk officer (CRO), oversees risks facing the Company, taking into  consideration climate risk, which spans across all key risk types. The MRC reports to  the Board’s ERC and is supported by subcommittees organized by risk type (e.g.,  credit, market, operational) and line of business, which also review the implications of  climate-related risks.  The Responsible Growth Council (RGC) is responsible for overseeing the Company’s  mandate to grow in a"
"sustainable manner and our progress on environmental and  social initiatives, including climate and our Net Zero goal. The RGC is co-chaired by  our chief administrative officer and our vice chair, who was formerly our chief  financial officer. Its members are comprised of senior leaders representing each line  of business (LOB) and control function. The RGC is accountable to the CEO and is  supported by its sub-council, the ESG Disclosure Council, which is responsible for  reviewing and"
"providing oversight of our climate and other sustainability-related  public disclosures.  Number of meetings held in 2023  Responsible Growth Council  5  National Community Advisory Council 2  The Responsible Growth Council, in accordance with its statement of governance  principles, escalates sustainability matters and related risks to the CGESC and to the  MRC, respectively. It monitors our focus on climate transition and sustainable finance  across our LOBs as we work to meet our Net Zero"
"goal. The details on our approach  to Net Zero and the 2030 Financing Activity Targets outlined herein were approved  by the RGC and reviewed by senior management and the Board.  The Target Management Forum is directly responsible for reviewing the transition  plans of top clients in the sectors where we have set 2030 Financing Activity  Targets. The Target Management Forum consists of senior leaders from Global  Banking, Enterprise Credit and the Global Environmental Group and is described in"
"more detail in the Understanding Client Transitions section of this document.  We enlist many independent third parties, including our National Community Advisory  Council, for advice, counsel, perspective, ideas and assistance. These third parties and  other stakeholders (including employees, clients, investors/shareholders,  communities, regulators and policymakers) represent a range of diverse perspectives  and provide continuous feedback on our actions and progress, holding us  accountable."
"We are transparent and report on our activities, seeking input from our  shareholders about the type of information that would be useful to them in  assessing our activities, as we have done with this document.  9 Control functions provide guidance and subject matter expertise on day-to-day activities affecting the Company and include Legal, Global Risk Management, Global Human Resources and certain groups  within the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer Groups and Global"
"Strategy and Enterprise Platforms.    Enterprise Functional Teams  Multiple teams across the Company work to execute our plan to reach our Net Zero goal, mobilize intellectual and financial  capital to assist clients in their transition and assess and manage both climate-related risks and opportunities. These groups,  outlined below, report progress to senior management through routines such as the Responsible Growth Council and  Management Risk Committee.  Internal Functional Groups with"
"Sustainability Expertise  Global Climate and Environmental Risk  Our climate risk management efforts are overseen by an officer who reports to the  CRO. Our Global Climate and Environmental Risk (GCER) group is a second-line  function within Global Risk Management (GRM) responsible for overseeing climate  risk management in line with our Risk Framework, including establishing our climate  risk framework and governance structure, providing independent assessment and  challenge of enterprise-wide"
"climate risks, providing input on risk appetite, delivering  an enterprise-wide view on climate risk metrics and managing the climate  compliance and operational risk program. GCER provides subject matter expertise to  help front-line units (FLUs) and control functions integrate the unique aspects of  climate risk into their risk management programs, such as identifying climate risks  over the relevant time horizons and determining climate risk scenario requirements  for risk management use and"
"regulatory reporting. GCER has established a Climate  Risk Council consisting of leaders across risk, LOBs and control functions and meets  routinely to discuss our approach to managing climate-related risks.  Global Public Policy  The Global Public Policy (GPP) team includes Federal, State, Local and International  Government Relations as well as our Policy Analysis and Insights group. The Global  Public Policy team, along with the Corporate Social Responsibility Team are part of  the Chief"
"Administrative Office group. GPP analyzes current and emerging issues and  legislative and policy developments, fosters regular interactions with policy-makers,  regulators, influencers, think tanks and other stakeholders and builds awareness of  the brand and our capabilities. They coordinate with trade associations on policy  objectives, implement our strategy for advocating to officials, direct lobbying efforts  and develop policy recommendations that inform and guide internal and external"
"discussions around global challenges. GPP includes the Global Environment Group  (GEG), which partners across the lines of business and support/control functions to  shape and execute our environmental strategy. Additional responsibilities of the GEG  are delineated next.  The Global Environmental Group (GEG)  • Works across the enterprise to help embed our environmental work into our  ordinary business activities in support of Responsible Growth and a Just  Transition.  • Operates the Financing"
"Activity Methodology and Strategy (FAMS)  workstream to develop, debate and direct Net Zero goal strategy, financed  emissions methodological decisions (e.g., calculations and targets) and  manage related alliances and organizations with which the Company is  involved. FAMS includes leaders from multiple LOBs, Risk, Enterprise Credit,  the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) group, Legal, Global Compliance and  Operational Risk (GCOR) and Audit.  Corporate Social Responsibility  The Corporate Social"
"Responsibility (CSR) Group includes both the International CSR  Group and the CSR Data and Reporting Team, both of which support our Net Zero  efforts, including reporting progress along the way.  • The International CSR Group works across regions outside of the U.S. to  integrate our environmental and social strategies into all aspects of our  business and in support of the communities we serve. This team includes an  enterprise advisory function that works across different LOBs to support"
"sustainable business activity, including to drive progress toward our $1.5 trillion  sustainable finance and Net Zero goals. The group also contributes to the  development of our policies and practices as well as brings expertise to support  a balanced and Just Transition globally. Additionally, the group catalyzes and  supports the monitoring and reporting of a number of our environment- and  climate-related activities.  • The CSR Data and Reporting Team leads data management and external"
"disclosures of the Company’s activities related to people, planet and  governance. This includes collaborating with the CFO Group on disclosure  controls and oversight and governance through the ESG Disclosure Council.    GOVERNANCE Home 13  CFO  The Corporate Sustainability Controller is part of the CFO Group and also supports  the work to reach our Net Zero goal and contributes to our overall climate strategy.  This team works in close cooperation with the CSR Data and Reporting Team and  GEG,"
"focusing on strengthening our control environment and governance processes  for sustainability and climate reporting.  Client-Facing Groups with Sustainability Expertise  Global Sustainable Finance  The Global Sustainable Finance Group (GSFG) is a Company-wide FLU within Global  Markets that works with our Management Team and partners across our LOBs to  support the Company’s sustainable finance objectives (e.g. our 10-year goal to  mobilize and deploy $1.5 trillion in sustainable finance by"
"2030); drive thought  leadership across international alliances and task forces; expand existing sustainable  finance activities across LOBs; and innovate across emerging areas of environmental  (including climate) and social finance. The Global Head of Sustainable Finance chairs  the Global Sustainable Finance Cross-LOB Council (the SF Council) as well as the  Global Sustainable Finance Data Taxonomy Governance Council (SF Data Council),  both of which are accountable to and serve as sub-"
"councils of the RGC. The SF  Council meets routinely and is responsible for implementing initiatives and  accelerating the Company’s sustainable finance progress across all eight LOBs and all  four core roles the Company plays in sustainable finance, including: (i) balance sheet  deployment – financing and investment, (ii) underwriting/distribution, (iii) advisory/  structuring and (iv) processing, servicing and trading. The SF Data Council provides  governance of our sustainable finance"
"reporting and oversees the Sustainable  Finance Taxonomy and key data decisions.   Sustainable Banking Solutions  Within our Global Corporate and Investment Banking (GCIB) business, our Sustainable  Banking Solutions Group (SBSG) delivers expertise on how addressing sustainability  considerations impacts clients’ cost of capital and ability to execute on their strategic  priorities. SBSG provides market insights and investor perspectives, in coordination  with investment banking, corporate"
"banking and capital markets partners, to help  structure and execute transactions where sustainability factors are a component of  the value proposition for investors. This includes Green, Social and Sustainability  Bonds and other financings for projects and investments with environmental and  social benefits and sustainability-linked transactions focused on issuers’ performance  on sustainability. Notably, SBSG is driving the work to help the business stay on track  toward meeting our 2030"
"Financing Activity Targets. This includes instituting a  framework to drive client engagement, data collection and assessment and progress  monitoring. See the Understanding Client Transitions section for additional details. In  2023, the Sustainability Transaction Forum (Forum) was created in GCIB to review  and discuss sustainability transactions with potential reputational risks to recommend  further action. Core participants of the Forum include senior leaders from Global  Banking as well as"
"representatives from Global Banking Legal, Climate and  Environmental Risk, the Global Environmental Group and other rotational participants  as necessary based on the transaction type.    GOVERNANCE Home 14  Performance and Remuneration  Our Board Compensation and Human Capital Committee oversees the governance of our pay-for-performance compensation  philosophy, which focuses on pay for performance over the long-term, as well as on an annual basis. Performance considerations  encompass both"
"financial and nonfinancial measures, including the manner in which results are achieved for the Company, LOBs and  individual employees.  At the start of each year, goals aligned to the tenets of Responsible Growth,  including growing in a sustainable manner, are established for each executive  officer and progress to meeting those goals is tracked on scorecards and taken into  consideration by the Board’s Compensation and Human Capital Committee when  making compensation decisions. For example:"
"• Our executive officer team’s performance dashboards contain sustainability  metrics that are tracked and reported to the Board. The Board also reviews  and considers progress toward our $1.5 trillion sustainable finance goal and  Net Zero goal in its evaluation of pay-for-performance.  Additionally, below and to the right are other ways sustainability is evaluated across  the company.  • FLUs, such as the GSFG, Renewable Energy Finance and SBSG, focus directly  on climate innovation and"
"environment-related revenue streams and are  evaluated based on the management of these opportunities as well as  engagement with our eight LOBs to finance the environmental transition in  alignment with the United Nations 17 Sustainable Development Goals (U.N.  SDGs).  • The GEG is responsible for the Company’s environmental strategy, including  our work to drive progress toward our Net Zero goal and other environmental  commitments and is evaluated on advancement in these areas.  • The chief"
"procurement officer leads the Company’s responsible sourcing  strategy and is evaluated on success in these areas. The Third Party Program  is tasked with engaging suppliers on the management of climate change and  delivering on our climate-related supplier engagement targets.  • Teams responsible for delivering operational and supply chain greenhouse gas  (GHG) emissions reductions and maintaining carbon neutrality include Global  Real Estate Services, Global Technology, Global Operations,"
"Consumer, the  Third Party Program, Corporate and Executive Travel Services and GEG. Team  performance is evaluated based on successfully implementing activities and  initiatives that support energy efficiency and manage and help reduce GHG  emissions.    GOVERNANCE Home 15  STRATEGY  Consistent with Responsible Growth, we continue to make progress on our strategy to support and  finance the transition to a low-carbon economy by staying focused on managing climate-related risks and  capturing"
"opportunities.  This progress includes setting and disclosing milestone targets, engaging with clients to support their transition, investing in climate solutions, developing  and reporting decision-useful metrics to drive progress, leading industry collaborations and following guidance for transparency.  STRATEGY 16  At Bank of America, we are driven by what matters most to our clients, employees and shareholders and are committed to using our  capabilities to help those we serve be successful."
"We recognize that we can only be successful when the individuals, companies,  communities and employees we serve are able to reach their vision of success. Climate-related risks can impact operations, supply  chains, distribution networks, clients and markets. Climate-related opportunities, including efforts to mitigate and adapt to climate  change, could benefit our clients, employees and shareholders.  The opportunities associated with the transition to a lower-carbon economy  include"
"innovation, jobs and growth. The investment needed for this transition is  estimated to require hundreds of trillions of financing by 205010. Shifting behavior  is an opportunity for financial institutions and other industry participants to meet  the preferences of their clients, by providing resources to promote customer  understanding and offering solutions.  We believe Bank of America is well positioned to capture these opportunities by  mobilizing our bankers to engage our clients, deepening"
"relationships with our  existing clients, winning new clients in the emerging low-carbon economy and  deploying our full suite of financial solutions to support our clients’ transitions or  help them make more sustainable choices. Our approach to managing climate- related risks and opportunities is embedded in our three-pronged climate strategy:  1) minimize our impact on the environment, 2) support and enable our clients to  achieve Net Zero and 3) assess and manage climate-related risks."
"STRATEGY Home 17 Minimize BAC’s impact  on the environment: Net  Zero before 2050  Drive Net Zero in operations, supply  chain and financing activities before  2050  Achieve 2030 targets to reduce  financed emissions and environmental  impacts across our value chain  Maintain carbon neutrality in  our operations  Support and enable clients to  achieve Net Zero by 2050  Actively engage clients across  all industry sectors to deliver  traditional and tailored climate  transition solutions"
"Initiate coverage of new industries  and companies  Mobilize and deploy $1.5 trillion in  sustainable finance by 2030  Assess and manage  climate-related risks  Oversee our climate risk practices  and adhere to a rigorous risk  management program  Shape our approach to managing  climate-related risks in line with  our Risk Framework  10 Source: https://business.bofa.com/en-us/content/sustainable-energy-transition.html  Time Horizons  While we have been addressing climate-related risks and"
"opportunities - since we  first started voluntarily reporting on our operational GHG emissions in 2003 - the  science and geopolitical context surrounding the clean energy transition continue to  evolve. Based on this evolution, our work includes several time horizons. We define  the following short-, medium- and long-term horizons, which are relevant for  execution of our climate strategy. Our priorities across these time horizons guide us  as we continue to operate against the backdrop of"
"evolving social, political and  technological perspectives.  Short-term: One to three years  Aligns with the time horizon of how we evaluate and manage  impacts from policy changes, potential market and reputational  risks, client and transaction due diligence and engagement.  Medium-term: Four to ten years  Aligns with the time horizon for managing risks and opportunities  related to our 2030 GHG emissions and environmental targets for  financing activities, operations and supply chain, our"
"2030  sustainable finance goal, internal climate-related scenario analysis,  policy and regulatory-related risks and industry credit risk  assessments.  Long-term: More than ten years  Aligns with the time horizon for managing risks and opportunities  related to the firm’s Net Zero before 2050 goal across our financing  activities, operations and supply chain and internal climate-related  scenario analysis.  Nature and biodiversity  The relationship between climate change and biodiversity loss"
"is complex. First and  foremost, climate change is one of the main drivers of biodiversity loss and also  contributes to other negative impacts on nature. Secondly, interactions between  climate and nature can sometimes accentuate physical and transition risks as well as  create new opportunities. For example, agriculture, forestry and other land use are  together the second largest contributor to global GHG emissions behind the energy  sector, primarily due to deforestation and land"
"conversion11. As forests are depleted,  we lose one of the world’s most important carbon sinks, which accelerates climate  change and compounds biodiversity loss12. Furthermore, the world’s oceans are  being affected by climate change and resource over-use, which threatens sectors  like fisheries and ocean ecosystems including their important role in keeping carbon  sequestered13.  At the same time, we see opportunities to deploy capital into nature-positive  areas aligned with our commitment to"
"mobilize and deploy $1.5 trillion in  sustainable finance by 2030 such as climate-smart and regenerative  agriculture, alternative protein, sustainable aquaculture, circular economy models and  nature-based solutions. The interactions between climate and nature suggest that  an integrated approach could be beneficial when considering potential synergies in  addressing climate change and biodiversity loss. To that end, we have identified five  potential objectives where we aspire to make progress"
"over time in reflecting  nature-specific considerations:  1. Deploy and mobilize more capital into investments that deliver positive  outcomes for nature across its four realms – land, ocean, freshwater and  atmosphere.  2. Evolve our heightened due diligence framework to reflect evolving risk and  best practices in addressing negative impacts on nature.  3. Integrate nature-related risks into our business risk management.  4. Include additional nature-related disclosures and integrate nature"
"considerations into our existing disclosures.  5. Partner with leading business networks, as well as academic and nature  conservation organizations, to help achieve a systems-wide integrated  approach to climate and nature (including supporting our own suppliers).    STRATEGY Home 18 11 Sources: U.N. climate action biodiversity article; Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES) Nov. 2019 article.  12 Source: U.N. climate action article.  13"
"Sources: U.N. climate action oceans article; Finance for Biodiversity article.  Minimize BAC’s Impact on the Environment: Net Zero before 2050  As a large global company, our scale lets us take measurable action to reduce our impacts by operating with greater efficiency,  implementing and supporting the development of new technologies and engaging our clients and supply chain.  In February 2021, we announced our Net Zero goal and set a range of targets to reduce the environmental impact,"
"including GHG emissions, of our operations and supply chain,  as shown below. Expanding upon these targets, we began announcing our 2030 Financing Activity Targets in 2022 starting with auto manufacturing, energy and power sectors  and added other key high-emitting sectors targets through 2024, which are also included in the chart below. We intend to include capital markets transactions to cover our  facilitation activities in our 2025 disclosure.  2030 Targets  Operations  • Maintain carbon"
"neutrality (Scopes 1 and 2) and  purchase 100% zero carbon electricity  • Reduce GHG emissions by 75% by 2030 (Scopes 1  and 2, location-based) from 2010 baseline  • Reduce energy use by 55% from 2010 baseline  • Reduce potable water use by 55% from 2010  baseline  • Achieve LEED® certification (or comparable) from  40% of building space  • Responsibly manage waste to reduce amount sent to  landfill  • Divert 75% of construction and demolition waste  from landfill  • Dispose 100% of electronic"
"waste using certified  responsible suppliers  Supply chain  • Goal that 70% of global suppliers, by spend, set GHG  emissions reduction or renewable energy targets  • Assess 90% of global suppliers, by spend, for ESG  risks as outlined by our Supplier Code of Conduct  • Continue to reduce paper use and purchase 100% of  paper from certified sources  • Utilize Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF) for at least  20% of the Company’s total annual corporate and  commercial jet fuel usage, equivalent to"
"100% of  corporate jet fuel and a significant percentage of fuel  associated with employee travel on commercial  airlines.  Financing activity  Auto Manufacturing  • Reduce intensity 48% by 2030 (gCO2e/km Scope 1, 2  & 3 end use) from 2019 baseline  Aviation  • Reduce intensity 37% by 2030 (gCO2e/RTK Scope 1)  from 2021 baseline  Cement  • Reduce intensity 32% by 2030 (tCO2e/tCP Scope  1&2) from 2021 baseline  Energy  • Reduce intensity 45% by 2030 (gCO2e/MJ Scope 1-2) from  2019 baseline  •"
"Reduce intensity 29% by 2030 (gCO2/MJ Scope 3 end use)  from 2019 baseline  Iron and Steel  • Reduce intensity 27% by 2030 (tCO2e/t Scope 1-2) from  2021 baseline  Maritime Shipping  • Keep intensity in alignment or below the decarbonization  trajectory derived from the Poseidon Principals.  Power Generation  • Reduce intensity 70% by 2030 (kgCO2/MWh Scope 1) from  2019 baseline    STRATEGY Home 19  Operations and Supply Chain  Minimizing environmental impacts in our operations and supply chain"
"is key  to operating the Company sustainably, and helps enable us to share our  expertise and best practices with clients. To achieve our operations and  supply chain goals, we take deliberate efforts to limit the emissions associated  with a range of different activities, including, but not limited to, the facilities we  own and operate, purchase of goods and services from our suppliers and our  employees’ business travel. We employ responsible natural resource management  which includes"
"efforts to improve energy efficiency, expand renewable energy  procurement and reduce water consumption.  Recent sustainability efforts in our global real estate  portfolio include:  1. Piloting carbon capture technologies  2. Evaluating wind turbine technologies  3. Executing decarbonization audits of owned assets with plans to  implement energy efficiency upgrades over next five years  4. Evaluating geothermal energy as a renewable energy source  5. Conducting infrared building shell"
"assessments  Our Operations  We have been reporting Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions since 2003 and were the  first U.S. bank to announce a Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG14 emissions reduction goal  through the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (US EPA) Climate Leaders. We  began publicly disclosing our significant categories of Scope 3 GHG emissions,  exclusive of financed emissions, in 2010, and over the past decade have set targets  to manage and reduce the environmental impacts of our activity"
"across all scopes  of GHG emissions.  Since 2010, we have reduced our location-based GHG emissions by 62% and in  2019, we achieved carbon neutrality for our operations, one year ahead of our goal.  To reach and maintain carbon neutrality for Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions, we  reduce our location-based emissions, purchase all of our electricity from renewable  sources and acquire a small number of carbon credits for our residual emissions15.  Key areas of focus for us and our clients as part of"
"the global energy transition  include electric vehicle (EV) adoption and infrastructure, SAF usage, decarbonization  of the power grid, electrification of gas-fired equipment, utilization of carbon  credits and development of new technologies. We detail our efforts across these  key areas below.  Availability of charging stations is essential to increase EV adoption and therefore  reduce associated emissions. To help facilitate the increased adoption of EVs by  our employees and clients, in"
"2019, we teamed up with Electrify America to begin  installing EV charging stations at select financial center locations across the U.S.  Additionally, through our global EV Program, we offer a credit to employees who  purchase or lease a new all-electric passenger vehicle, provided certain eligibility  criteria are met.  In 2022, we announced our support for the production and use of 1 billion gallons  of SAF by 2030. To drive the usage of SAF, the Company committed to utilize SAF  for at least"
"20% of total annual corporate and commercial jet fuel usage by 2030.  This includes 100% of corporate jet fuel and a significant percentage of fuel  associated with employee travel on commercial airlines. Through 2023, SAF  accounted for 31% of our corporate and commercial jet fuel usage, surpassing our  2030 goal. In addition, the Company partners with a number of leading  organizations to support our SAF efforts16:  14 GHG emissions Scopes as defined per the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. US EPA"
"Climate Leaders launched in 2002 as a voluntary program that worked with companies to measure GHG emissions and set long- term emissions reduction goals.  15 Information about our approach to carbon credits can be found on page 21, and Metrics and Targets section of this document.  16Source for American Airlines and SkyNRG: https://newsroom.bankofamerica.com/content/newsroom/press-releases/2022/02/bank-of-america-sets-2030-sustainable-aviation-fuel--saf--goal.html  • American Airlines: Three-"
"year agreement supporting the purchase of 1 million  gallons of SAF annually for 2021-2023. To date and at the time of completing the  agreement, this was the largest publicly announced SAF agreement by volume  between an airline and corporate customer.  • SkyNRG: 10-year partnership to support the production of 1.2 million gallons of  SAF per year beginning in 2025.  • Sustainable Aviation Buyers Alliance (SABA): As part of SABA, Bank of America  and other buyers purchase SAF certificates at"
"scale. These SAF certificates  provide the market with a demand signal for fuel producers to make more high- integrity SAF, which in turn influences SAF cost competitiveness with    STRATEGY Home 20  conventional jet fuel. In 2023, we joined a consortium of companies to purchase  SAF certificates linked to 850,000 gallons of high-integrity SAF produced by  World Energy17.  • Avelia: Bank of America was the first financial institution to join Avelia, the digital  platform program built by Shell,"
"Amex GBT, and Accenture with support from the  Energy Web Foundation to support the purchase of SAF.  • United Airlines Ventures Sustainable Flight Fund: Bank of America joined  companies and consumers to come together and increase the supply of SAF  through the support of start-ups.  • GREATER MSP Partnership: Bank of America and others jointly established the  Minnesota SAF Hub – the first large-scale SAF Hub in the U.S.  • Additionally, Bank of America is an active contributor in the World"
"Economic  Forum’s aviation decarbonization initiative Airports of Tomorrow focusing on  cross-sectoral collaboration to enable SAF production scaling towards 2030.  Furthermore, in 2023, we procured all of our electricity from renewable sources,  with 10% of our renewable electricity procured through power purchase  agreements (PPAs18). PPAs allow power generators to fund and build projects by  providing revenue certainty for new assets. Renewable PPAs also help to reduce  the carbon footprint"
"for us via a secure and predictable supply of green energy. We  continue to complete installation of solar panels on buildings across our portfolio.  Carbon Credits  While we prioritize emission mitigation in our approach to reaching Net Zero, we  also recognize the important role that high-integrity carbon credits play in reducing  global emissions, including for our clients. There is a growing convergence among  experts that high-integrity carbon credits can deliver real, additional and"
"durable  cuts in emissions, when included as part of a portfolio of solutions to reduce  emissions in a company’s operations and across supply chains. Importantly, carbon  credits should always be a supplementary action that follows the emissions  mitigation hierarchy of first avoiding activities that create emissions wherever  possible, and second, switching to less carbon-intensive activities.  As discussed earlier, deforestation19 is one of the largest drivers of GHG emissions  today and if"
"continued at scale, is expected to deplete important carbon sinks in  the future. High-integrity carbon credits are a way to link economic benefits with  nature conservation and have the potential to support decarbonization efforts  globally. They can also help channel climate finance to where it is needed most,  including in low-income communities and developing countries, and provide several  co-benefits such as economic development and sustainable livelihoods, as well as  conservation of"
"land, water resources and biodiversity. In addition, carbon credits  focused on removal of carbon — both nature- and technology-based — will be  increasingly important in achieving Net Zero, especially as we get closer to 2030  and beyond, so it is important to invest today in the systems, mechanisms and  technologies that support such credits. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate  Change (U.N. IPCC) recognized the necessity of carbon removal as a climate  mitigation strategy in its 2022"
"climate mitigation report20.  As part of our strategy to reduce emissions in our operations, we believe it is  necessary to both reduce emissions in alignment with science and to support the  development of an effective carbon market. When selecting carbon credit projects,  we focus on those that address multiple U.N. SDGs. One project that demonstrates  this approach is a sustainable infrastructure project that reduces and prevents gas  leakages within a gas distribution network. The project"
"financed the purchase and  import of specialized leak detectors and advanced sealant materials to provide  long-lasting sealing of identified leaks. Additional benefits of the repairs include  reduced risks of accidents and hazardous pollution from gas leaks and creation of  jobs for local residents. This project aligns to multiple U.N. SDGs, such as Good  Health and Well-Being, Decent Work and Economic Growth and Climate Action.    STRATEGY Home 21 Carbon credit reporting  Units 2021  2022"
"2023  Avoidance carbon credits  retired  Metric tons CO2e 53,786  94,140  100,806  Removal carbon credits retired Metric tons CO2e 36,000  70,601  77,799  Total carbon credits retired  Metric tons CO2e 89,786  164,741  178,605  17 Source: https://about.bankofamerica.com/en/making-an-impact/sustainable-aviation-fuel-saf  18 A power purchase agreement (PPA) is a contract between two parties, a party that generates electricity (the seller) and a party that is looking to purchase electricity (the"
"buyer).  19 Deforestation includes both terrestrial land conversion (e.g., in tropical and sub-tropical forests) and coastal ecosystem degradation (e.g., loss of mangrove forests). Agriculture, fuelwood harvesting,  aquaculture and infrastructure development are among the leading causes. Since mangroves store thousands of years of carbon dioxide beneath the soil, the destruction of these forests can release significant  amounts of greenhouse gasses into the atmosphere. Source: National Oceanic"
"and Atmospheric Administration.  20 Source: IPCC Climate Change 2022 report.  We engage with The Integrity Council for the Voluntary Carbon Market (ICVCM),  Voluntary Carbon Markets Integrity Initiative (VCMII), Global Carbon Trust, Energy  Transition Accelerator (ETA) and other organizations to help improve the  framework and governance of a market for high-quality carbon credits. See Metrics  and Targets for more information and methodology related to our carbon credit  activities.  Our Supply"
"Chain  In addition to achieving Net Zero in our operations, we are working to reach Net  Zero with respect to indirect emissions generated across our supply chain. For  many years we have educated our sourcing managers and supplier managers on  the business imperative for Net Zero and continue to require they take an annual  climate training. This helps enable our Third Party Program to deliver effective and  continued engagement with suppliers.  We set environmental expectations of our"
"suppliers through our Supplier Code of  Conduct (Supplier Code), to which we expect suppliers to adhere while conducting  business with or on behalf of the Company. Our expectations, including those  related to climate, are also reiterated in our contract templates, designed to foster  supplier accountability. Escalation is required if suppliers wish to negotiate any  changes to these terms.  We monitor adherence with our Supplier Code by utilizing a risk-based approach to  review the policies"
"and procedures of our highest spend suppliers and those  aligned to industries with environmental and social risk prior to awarding and/or  renewing contracts. LOBs are accountable for selecting suppliers that satisfactorily  meet expectations and for escalating if suppliers are unwilling or unable to provide  evidence of compliance on an annual basis. Suppliers that do not meet our  expectations must remediate findings to avoid escalation.  We partner annually with CDP (formerly Carbon"
"Disclosure Project), an international  nonprofit that runs an environmental disclosure system, to collect emissions data  and climate target details from our high spend suppliers. As a founding member of  the CDP supply chain program, we have asked suppliers to respond to the CDP  survey since 2009 to help us understand the climate change impacts on our  suppliers’ businesses and associated risks related to our global supply chain. The  data received from suppliers is used to help validate that"
"high spend suppliers are  disclosing emissions and targets, to calculate our supply chain emissions and to  track our progress toward Net Zero.  To educate, upskill and support our suppliers in calculating and reporting emissions  data and setting ambitious climate targets, we offer a variety of free resources,  including webinars and individualized advisory services. We also provide suppliers  with individualized feedback regarding their CDP survey performance to facilitate  an ongoing"
"dialogue, which helps promote collaboration and drives positive  environmental change. As part of our long-standing commitment to transparency  and accountability, we have maintained public goals to address supply chain  emissions, focused on supplier engagement, since 2016. Currently, we have a goal  that 70% of global suppliers, by spend, set GHG emissions reduction or renewable  energy targets by 2030.  More detail on our GHG emissions reduction progress and our suite of operational  and"
"supply chain goals can be found in the Metrics and Targets section, as well as  in our CDP Climate Change Questionnaire response, located in our reports center.  We recognize that fully achieving Net Zero in our operations and supply chain,  across all relevant emission scopes, involves additional efforts that we have only  begun to explore. This includes evaluating the success of piloting new, innovative  technologies to address emissions in our real estate and data center portfolios."
"Learnings from our experiences will further help us assist our clients as they  transition and help us better understand challenges that we and others may  encounter on the journey to Net Zero. We continue to track and manage the  environmental impacts of our operations and supply chain and refine our  methodology in an effort to most accurately collect and report on these data.  Progress toward our 2030 targets are shown on the following page and our full  environmental operations dataset can"
"be found in the Metrics and Targets section.  Related assurance statements can be found in Appendices 2 and 3, and on  www.bankofamerica.com/esgreports.    STRATEGY Home 22  Goal (2010 Baseline) Units 2021 2022 2023 2030 Target  Greenhouse gases/Energy  Maintain carbon neutrality for operations (Scopes 1 and 2) % reduction 100% 100% 100% Carbon Neutral  Reduce location-based GHG emissions by 75% (Scopes 1 and 2) % reduction 63% 61% 62% 75%  Reduce energy use % reduction 47% 44% 45% 55%  Purchase"
"electricity from zero carbon sources % renewable 101% 101% 104% 100%  Green building  LEED® certification (or comparable) in owned and leased space % certified 25% 26% 32% 40%  Water  Reduce potable water use % reduction 53% 51% 55% 55%  Waste (2011 Baseline)  Divert construction and demolition waste from the landfill % diversion 73% 74% 76% 75%  Dispose of electronic waste using certified responsible suppliers % disposed 100% 99.61% 99.98% 100%  Paper  Paper from certified sources % from"
"certified sources 98.6% 98.7% 98.2% 100%  Supplier engagement  Assessment of global suppliers, by current year spend, for ESG risks as  outlined by the Company’s Supplier Code  % of spend 63% 78% 86% 90%  Goal that global suppliers, by previous year spend, set GHG emissions  reduction or renewable energy targets  % of spend 61% 63% 70% 70%  Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF - commitment announced in 2022)  Mobilize $2B in sustainable finance for the production of SAF and other  low-carbon aviation"
"solutions  $ USD (B) Not available $0 $0.20 $2  Support production and use of 1B gallons of SAF by 2030 # of gallons (M) (cumulative)  Not available 1 4 1,000  Utilize SAF for at least 20% of total annual corporate and commercial jet  fuel usage  % of jet fuel usage Not available 13% 31% 20%  Financing Activity  As a financial institution, the emissions from our financing activity21 are considered  part of our value chain and comprise the largest component of our overall emissions.  Therefore,"
"we focus on reducing emissions from key carbon intensive sectors within  our financing activity and publishing progress on our targets annually. We have set  2030 Net Zero aligned targets for seven sectors - auto manufacturing, aviation,  cement, energy, power generation, iron and steel, and maritime shipping - and detail  our approach, including decarbonization pathways, key sectoral considerations and  metrics and data used, in this and historical reports. Our 2030 Net Zero aligned  targets"
"are portfolio-level targets for each sector, using an emissions intensity  reduction or alignment metric. These sectors are prioritized as they rank among the  most significant contributors to global GHG emissions in the broader economy and  our lending portfolio. For further details on other sectors, see Additional Details on  our Approach on page 26.  The target setting process is led by the FAMS Workstream in partnership with the  key stakeholders as described in the Governance section."
"Setting targets for  financing activity emissions is complex, requiring an extensive amount of research to  inform decisions.    STRATEGY Home 23 21 We define financing activity emissions as the emissions associated with our loans and investments, according to the The Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard for the Financial Industry.   Financing activity emissions metrics and targets mostly cover clients within Global  Corporate and Investment Banking, Global Commercial Banking and Global"
"Markets.  Our intention is to incorporate additional financing activities in the future, including  tax equity and capital markets. The sector-specific decisions are detailed in the  Metrics and Targets section and overarching strategic decisions are outlined below.  Key Elements of our Financing Activity Targets Approach  Selection of Climate Scenarios  Climate scenarios describe expected hypothetical energy demand, emissions and  corresponding global temperature rise at a future period in"
"time. Some industry- specific climate scenarios outline pathways to reduce sector emissions by a  targeted amount over time. Decarbonization pathways are derived from some of the  sector-specific aspects of these scenarios and represent a sector’s downward  energy demand and emission trajectories that are a fundamental tool in defining our  organization’s interim and long-term climate goals. Setting targets on our financing  activity emissions involves evaluating the decarbonization pathways for"
"each sector  as outlined in existing climate scenarios to determine the emission reductions  required across relevant scopes to achieve Net Zero before 2050. We evaluate all  potential scenarios and determine the best sectoral decarbonization pathway for our  targets based on our portfolio and the strategic approach needed to meet our  objectives. Aligning with recognized climate scenario decarbonization pathways is  integral to establishing our Net Zero commitments, following guidance from"
"industry frameworks, and underpins our related internal strategy. The selected  climate scenarios for each target sector are outlined in the Metrics and Targets  section.  The U.N. IPCC periodically produces reports focused on the physical science of  climate change, corresponding societal impacts and potential adaptation or  mitigation strategies. By merging U.N. IPCC data with energy system models, cost- effective and technically feasible pathways can be developed to achieve desired  emissions"
"outcomes. Unlike traditional energy models, which provide descriptive  forecasts of the energy market and do not attempt to achieve any specific objective,  climate scenarios show what conditions are required to achieve a certain outcome.  Several organizations develop and publish climate scenarios with consistent  objectives and similar trends within major energy sectors and regions, despite being  based on distinct assumptions and forecasts.  For example, the International Energy Agency (IEA)"
"publishes leading resources for  climate scenarios and provides foundational data for other organizations that  develop scenarios with specific sectoral or geographic focus areas.  Our sectoral targets are derived and informed by energy and emissions pathways  from commonly-referenced climate scenarios, such as the IEA Net Zero Emissions  by 2050 scenario (IEA NZE2050). Some scenarios take a bottom-up approach, while  others such as the IEA scenarios use an economy-wide carbon budget that"
"allocates  emissions across all sectors to meet energy needs. These scenarios provide  extensive data which can be used to establish targets for portfolio alignment and  combined into other useful tracking metrics. For example, they offer data on  absolute emissions as well as activity metrics for different sectors (e.g., total global  electricity generation) that can be used to glean emissions intensities for target  setting. Due to the interconnectedness of energy sectors and how carbon"
"budgets  are uniquely distributed within individual models, we confirm alignment on key  assumptions, such as sectoral carbon budgets, across all scenarios that we use in  sectoral target setting.  Consideration of Sectoral Decarbonization Pathways and  Decision-Useful Emission Metrics  Sectoral decarbonization pathways are essential in setting physical unit emissions  intensity reduction targets that are industry specific and incorporate relevant  expectations, constraints and other factors."
"For example, decarbonization levers  applicable in one sector may not be important – or even exist – in a different sector.  We also consider pathways that offer region-specific insights to enable the  development of sectoral targets that better reflect the composition of our portfolios.  For each of our sectoral targets, we take a holistic approach in selecting the most  appropriate climate scenario and metric by analyzing how well they align with the  commercial activities of our clients and"
"importantly, available data. As these  decisions inform financing strategy, this process entails careful consideration of  different pathways and how existing and future clients will be impacted. More detail  on sector-specific assumptions related to the scenarios is available in the Metrics  and Targets section.   STRATEGY Home 24  We use physical unit emissions intensity to set targets which allows us to better  assist clients in reducing their emissions and facilitates more effective"
"stakeholder  engagement. In our view, physical unit emissions intensity is the best measurement  of progress toward Net Zero, accounting for clients’ improvements in technologies  and systems to reduce emissions and improve efficiency, or emissions per physical  unit. Physical unit emissions intensity also allows for comparison of clients of  different sizes within a sector. While our Net Zero before 2050 target is based on  absolute financed emissions and we report on these emissions for each"
"of our  sectors, there are challenges to using this metric for 2030 interim targets. More  detail on metrics and targets can be found in the Metrics and Targets section.  Reassessment as Scenarios Change and New Data  Becomes Available  Because climate scenarios are developed with continuously improving climate  science and interrelated, ever-changing market and technology factors,  organizations like the IEA regularly release updated scenarios that may reflect short  and long-term adjustments"
"to energy and emissions pathways. These updates  require us to evaluate the degree and driving factors of scenario changes. We  consider a variety of criteria to determine the impact of refreshed data on both our  sectoral targets and internal strategy. We prioritize a balanced approach that weighs  the importance of referencing the latest climate science, while also valuing  continuity for clients.  We understand that clients are navigating a variety of stakeholder expectations, and  we aim to"
"support clients in their decarbonization efforts by limiting major changes  to our expectations, if possible. We intend to follow industry guidance that suggests  targets be reviewed and revised at least every five years, but we also regularly  monitor scenario updates and may determine that target amendments are  necessary more frequently. Ultimately, our strategy aims to connect the climate  science from recognized scenarios with the commercial potential of our clients to  demonstrate progress"
"in the transition to a Net Zero economy.  Role of Decarbonization Levers  Decarbonization levers are tools and strategies used to reduce carbon emissions,  and they play a crucial role in both shaping the assumptions included in climate  scenarios, and in achieving our targets.    The technology readiness, market availability and emissions abatement potential of  decarbonization levers vary significantly across sectors. Decarbonization levers can  also vary significantly across geographies and"
"regulatory regimes. For example,  some power sector clients may have abundant policy and regulatory incentives to  install wind, solar or even nuclear generation, while others have strong disincentives  to install such technologies.  We review market and technology analyses, such as the IEA Technology Readiness  Level (TRL) rating system, to help understand when potential levers, such as  expansion of clean energy capacity, adoption of electric vehicles, use of sustainable  aviation fuel and"
"other strategies, may reach scale to impact meaningful market  transformation and decarbonization. Further, we identify which emissions reductions  strategies are in the direct control of our sector-based groups of clients, and we  focus our sector targets, as well as our client engagement, around those strategies.  As a leader in sustainable finance, we are providing expertise and mobilizing capital  to improve the commercial viability of many of the important decarbonization levers  needed by"
"our clients. For more information, see the Support and Enable our Clients  to Achieve Net Zero: Supporting our clients in high-emitting sectors, to understand  the various decarbonization levers by sector.   Carbon Credits  To reach our 2030 Financing Activity Targets, we intend to apply client use of  carbon removal credits to our 2030 targets as the data is available. These credits  will have to meet specific criteria including certification by a credible body that  follows leading industry"
"guidance and use in combination with a science-aligned  emission reduction commitment. We recognize this is an area where guidance on  both the supply-side and demand-side (claims while using carbon credits) is rapidly  evolving and will continue to track leading guidance on the application of carbon  credits, including: Oxford University’s Net Zero Guiding Principles, ICVCM’s Core  Carbon Principles, VCMI Carbon Credit Claim’s Guidance and IETA Guidelines for  High Integrity Use of Carbon"
"Credits. See Carbon Credits in Operations section  above for enterprise perspective on carbon credits.   STRATEGY Home 25  Additional Details on our Approach  As mentioned previously, our focus for sectoral targets is on the most significant  contributors to global GHG emissions in the broader economy and our lending  portfolio. We currently do not plan to set targets for commercial or residential real  estate, agriculture, aluminum, thermal coal mining or other sectors for a variety of  reasons"
"including immaterial exposure, lack of established climate scenarios and  methodologies and data quality challenges. Improving data quality across our  portfolio is an important ongoing area of focus in our approach.  The real estate sector contributes a significant portion of overall global emissions  but data availability on a property-by-property level is very challenging. Moreover, our  estimation of the emissions associated with our financing of both the commercial /  residential real"
"estate sectors yielded relatively low results compared to the priority  sectors for which we have set targets. As decarbonization of real estate is highly  reliant on the decarbonization of upstream sectors such as cement, iron and steel,  energy and power generation, we are focusing our attention on supporting clients in  those sectors to reduce emissions, as measured and managed through our 2030  Financing Activity Targets, which will in turn support decarbonization of our real  estate"
"portfolios.  For the agriculture sector, our decision to not set a target is due to the variety and  complexities of sub-sectors and lack of robust and mature scenarios and  decarbonization pathways. We will continue to track the development of global  decarbonization roadmaps and banking industry best practices for this sector. As  indicated previously, we are focused on addressing business impacts on nature and  biodiversity using other tools. See the Nature and Biodiversity section of this"
"document for further information or the Biodiversity and Ecosystems section of our  Environmental and Social Risk Policy Framework (ESRPF) to better understand how  we are minimizing risk in this space.  Our exposure to the aluminum sector and the estimated associated financed  emissions are not significant and therefore we have not set a target. We are  focused on progressing toward our iron and steel target, which was set and  disclosed earlier this year.  We have not set a target on financed"
"emissions related to our pure play thermal coal  extraction portfolio as our exposure to the sector was de minimis in 2023 (less than  $10 million). Our absolute emissions in the pure-play thermal coal mining sector  were 339 thousand tCO2e in 2022, down from 1,398 thousand tCO2e in 2021.  Best practices for financial institution target setting continue to evolve and be  refined. We may consider setting targets for additional carbon intensive sectors over  time. With the addition of our iron and"
"steel sector and maritime shipping sector  targets in 2024, a majority of our financing activity emissions within our commercial  credit lending portfolio are now covered by our targets.   STRATEGY Home 26  Understanding Client Transitions  One of our roles in the transition to Net Zero is to discuss related risks and  opportunities with our clients, understand their priorities and strategies, and  support them on their journeys to achieve their own Net Zero goals. To do  this effectively, we"
"have established a dedicated workstream within the Global  Banking business. We partner with enterprise-wide functional teams in designing a  framework that allows us to actively manage to the 2030 Financing Activity Targets,  better understanding our clients’ transition plans on a client-by-client basis and  using our expertise and knowledge to support them. This framework was designed  to be flexible and incorporates the contextual factors critical to understanding the  opportunities – and"
"challenges – facing our clients.  We recognize that only by helping clients see the value of setting and meeting their   Net Zero goals can the Company achieve its own 2030 Financing Targets. We also  acknowledge the impact that external factors have on our clients’ abilities to  decarbonize, such as the timeframe for emerging technologies to become  economically viable and the societal and geopolitical factors that can impact this  work, as discussed in the Introduction. This framework allows"
"us to review each  client’s transition plan on an individual basis and begin to incorporate the results as a  factor, among others, when evaluating our relationships and business opportunities.  The primary elements of this framework as shown below are 1) banker engagement,  2) data capture and reporting, 3) client engagement and 4) client transition  plan  review. STRATEGY Home 27 Starting with our largest, most carbon intensive clients and then expanding scope to the broader portfolio  1"
"Banker Engagement For our most carbon intensive clients, we conduct  deep-dive sessions with our bankers so they  are knowledgeable about our financed emissions  calculations, boundaries and methodologies.  2  Data Capture &  Reporting  We designed and implemented a robust data  capture model to source quantitative  and qualitative information, beyond our  clients’ emissions profiles, to support transition  plan assessments.  3  Client  Engagement  Our bankers are engaging with clients across"
"all  sectors on this topic, with more focused and  specific engagements with clients in scope  for our targets.  4  Review Client  Transition Plans  The Target Management Forum meets regularly to  review and discuss clients in scope for targets,  with the bankers presenting all the information  collected on our clients’ transition plans. The Forum  then directs clients engagement appropriately.  Understanding  our Clients'  Transitions 1 2 3 4  Banker Engagement  We began by educating bankers"
"across the platform on climate and Net Zero to help  enable active engagement with clients in multiple sectors. Our Net Zero curriculum  is designed to provide front-line bankers with the requisite knowledge, tools and  skills to engage with and support clients on their paths to Net Zero. This includes  training on Net Zero and climate; and education on emerging decarbonization  technologies such as alternative fuels, carbon markets, carbon capture utilization and  storage, energy efficiency,"
"energy storage, EVs, green hydrogen, renewable energy  and resource efficiency. These trainings (including additional courses that are  optional) are available to all front-line bankers and support them as they engage with  clients. Because our client base extends across multiple industries and regions, we  also developed sector- and region- specific materials to support deeper  understanding of trends, benchmarking and financing opportunities. These materials  cover high-emitting sectors such"
"as automotive, aviation, chemicals, construction,  energy, food and beverage, healthcare, machinery, metals and mining, real estate,  retail and utilities — expanding beyond the sectors where we have set targets.  We added resources within Global Banking to share sustainability expertise with  clients and help structure and execute transactions where sustainability factors are a  component of the value proposition for investors. These resources provide market  insights and investor perspectives,"
"in coordination with investment banking,  corporate banking and capital markets partners. They also deliver supplemental  trainings to keep product and coverage bankers abreast of new developments in the  markets.  We are also deepening climate expertise within Global Banking sector teams to  focus on climate, sustainability and energy transition. In 2022, we introduced a  dedicated GCIB Energy Transition vertical and repositioned the Natural Resources  industry group to the Natural Resources"
"and Energy Transition Group within our  Global Investment Banking organization. Additionally, we have dedicated climate and  sustainability resources within our Emerging Growth and Regional Coverage  practice. Within GCIB, we have organized forums across banking coverage teams to  identify cross-sector opportunities, drive ideation and collaboration and enhance  client engagement.  In the sectors where we have set our 2030 Financing Activity Targets, bankers are  given more focused and intensive"
"resources. We conduct deep dive sessions so they  are knowledgeable about financed emissions calculations, boundaries and  methodologies.  These sessions provide our bankers with the data inputs, sources, assumptions, and  granular results for all financed emissions metrics calculated at each step in the  model. We also include peer comparisons to other clients in the sector and the  overall portfolio, and then finally comparison of our model output to any client- disclosed emissions or"
"intensity data. We have initiated these sessions for our top  clients in each sector where we have set targets. Moving forward, we will look to  expand this to cover all of our in-scope clients in an automated and scalable manner  as part of our suite of reporting and analytical tools.  Data Capture and Reporting  Simply looking at a client’s raw emissions data at a point in time is not sufficient to  fully understand the client’s trajectory toward Net Zero. To most effectively support  our"
"clients and for us to make the most informed decisions, we must be able to  understand our clients’ transition plans to develop a holistic view of their strategic  priorities, investment plans and governance. Therefore, we incorporate contextual  information — beyond a client’s emissions profile — into our client engagement  and processes. We built a robust data capture framework to source this information  at scale for all clients in scope for targets to support the evaluation of client"
"transition plans.  The sourced data contains both qualitative factors and quantitative information  consisting of client targets, emissions data, relationship metrics, output from our  Climate and Environmental Risk Assessment and third-party scoring. Qualitative  inputs include client strategic goals, investment plans, levels of oversight and actions  taken to drive performance. See below for a description of the data elements we  capture. When combined with active client engagement, this"
"evaluation gives us a  more complete picture of their trajectories and helps us to support them on their  journeys. We developed a template to be able to review clients consistently within  each industry, considering key indicators of a client’s transition plan and trajectory.  We continue to enhance this template, as overall data quality and disclosures  improve. This has enabled us to introduce financed emissions metrics and clients’  transition plans into the way we review client"
"relationships.  We have designed a suite of reporting and analytical capabilities for bankers, senior  management and risk partners to understand the composition of the portfolio and  track progress of clients in scope for our 2030 Financing Activity Targets. STRATEGY Home 28  This includes a dashboard for our front-line bankers and senior management that  provides portfolio- and client-level financed emissions metrics. This tool provides  insight into a client’s emissions profile and their"
"impact on the overall portfolio,  helping us to understand the relative significance and weighting of each client, as  well as comparison to the portfolio’s and other clients’ calculated intensities.  Through this dashboard, bankers can see all relevant financed emissions metrics,  year-over-year comparisons and relative significance within the portfolio.  Additionally, we are building the capability to understand how a potential transaction  would impact our portfolio. This is expected to allow"
"bankers to run “what-if”  scenarios incorporating exposure changes, emissions intensity and the impact of  adding or removing clients from our portfolio. These analytical capabilities are  critical to developing a more holistic view of our clients and understanding how the  Company can support their transitions.  Client Engagement  Among the most important assets we have at the bank are the relationships and  trust we have developed with our clients. All of our activities are oriented around"
"serving our clients. Therefore, one of the best tools we have to understand our  clients is the day-to-day interactions of our bankers which provide us with valuable  insight into their strategy, priorities and areas of focus. We learn more from this  engagement than anything we could glean from a public filing or third-party rating.  The issues facing our clients vary widely depending on the region, industry and  regulatory framework in which they operate – not to mention the bespoke"
"challenges and opportunities each individual client encounters based on their own  specific circumstances - our bankers’ understanding of this is critical to  contextualizing all of this. As noted above, we provide our bankers with a plethora of  data and training to give them the foundation to understand the work their clients  are doing, but nothing can replace the in-depth insights that comes from the  frequent interaction our bankers have with their clients. For example, supporting an  auto"
"manufacturing client on a battery manufacturing mergers and acquisitions  assignment signals their intent to vertically integrate their supply chain in their  transition goals. The intelligence we gather helps us to understand their plans and  provide the right advice and solutions to help them advance their goals.  Data Capture Framework  Emissions Data  Absolute emissions and emissions intensity  PCAF data quality score  Contribution to portfolio financed emissions metrics (based on sectoral"
"targets)  Relationship Metrics  Revenues, returns or historical client relationship Future business  opportunities  Output from Climate  and Environmental  Risk Assessment  Overall composite CERA score  Awareness disclosure score  Physical risk score  Transition risk score  Strategy and mitigation score  Decarbonization Strategy  Net Zero transition plan or strategies  Absolute emissions to emissions intensity targets or commitments  Progress toward targets or commitments  Governance and"
"strategic importance  Investment in carbon reduction projects and decarbonization efforts  CapEx allocated to the transition  Other Considerations  Regional considerations  Regulatory considerations Macroeconomic factors  Client Transition Plan Reviews  The process to review our clients’ transition plans leverages work done in training  bankers, collecting and analyzing data, and engaging with clients. As discussed  earlier, this is just one tool we use to understand clients’ risks and"
"opportunities —  each review is bespoke and individualized to capture the nuanced and unique  circumstances of our clients. We have established a Target Management Forum,  consisting of senior leaders across the business, that is directly responsible for  reviewing our clients’ transition plans based on the qualitative and quantitative  factors noted in the Data Capture Framework section. The Target Management  Forum directs client engagement and provides guidance on the products, services  and"
"advice most relevant for the client.  STRATEGY Home 29  The seniority of its members drives accountability in the business and emphasizes  the importance of understanding our clients’ transition plans to maximize  opportunities and address risks.  The Target Management Forum reviews our top clients in the sectors with financing  activity 2030 targets. The bankers covering those clients present three elements to  the Target Management Forum: 1) quantitative data , 2) qualitative information and"
"3) intelligence from engaging with our clients. Adding to the information that comes  from our clients’ public disclosures, our bankers layer on a deeper insight that can  only be ascertained by continued, long-standing relationships built on trust. Bankers  are expected to have detailed knowledge of the clients’ commitments, investment  and implementation plans and progress they have made to date. They are asked to  provide specific examples of client actions and explain how they are engaging"
"with  the client to support their transition. While we want to understand the risks, we  equally want to appropriately pursue opportunities. The combination of objective  data and more nuanced input from bankers gives the Target Management Forum a  full complement of contextualized information. By the end of 2024, the Target  Management Forum will have discussed and reviewed clients by intensity and  impact across our first five sector targets (auto manufacturing, aviation, cement,  energy and"
"power).  Thus far, client transition reviews presented to the Target Management Forum have  shared intelligence on what our clients are doing, where our risks lie and how we are  capturing the opportunity. This is resulting in specific actions to drive engagement  with our clients. We are early on in this process, and we fully expect to learn and  modify as we go, but we are confident that we have designed a framework that  assists us in effectively understanding our clients.  As mentioned"
"above, this transition plan review is completed for our top clients by  intensity and impact in the sectors where we have set 2030 targets. Going forward,  we look to expand this to include a broader set of clients in our GCIB and GCB  businesses. Since it will not be practical to have all clients presented to the Target  Management Forum, we will likely create a more standardized review that we can  leverage at scale for a large number of clients. We will continue to present our  largest, most"
"carbon-intensive clients to the Target Management Forum.  Key Challenges  Given how nascent all of this is, both for us and for our clients, we are continually  enhancing our processes to accommodate and consider better data, improved  reporting and evolving science. As data becomes more available and is of a higher  quality, as the science driving the Net Zero pathways changes and as the  macroeconomic and policy environments evolve to either enable or inhibit progress,  we will need to re-"
"evaluate progress.  For example, as more clients report emissions, we will rely less on estimations.  However, that switch is likely to result in variations – both positive and negative – in  our reported progress.  Further, in many industries, our clients are dependent on still-emerging technologies  to achieve their targets. The IEA estimates that the share of emissions reductions in  2050 from technologies under development is approximately 35%-down from 50%  estimated in 202122. Despite"
"progress, this is still a significant hurdle for our clients.  If technologies don’t become viable in a timeframe that aligns with the Net Zero  pathways, then our clients’ ability to transition will likely be negatively impacted.  Since many levers for our clients to transition are out of their control and reliant on  the economic viability of emerging clean technologies and shifting consumer  preferences, we are engaging industry experts and bankers to continuously re- assess our"
"methodologies. Given this dependency, one of our areas of focus for  sustainable finance is to deploy and mobilize capital to the emerging clean  technologies so critical to client transition. See the Support and Enable Clients and  Metrics and Targets - Sustainable Finance sections for more information.  We recognize that not all clients will move at the same pace, as they are starting  from different places and have unique and nuanced factors impacting their ability to  transition. However, we"
"have established a review process incorporating data  collection, reporting tools and analytics and senior leader and banker engagement to  drive progress toward our goals and enhance engagement with clients.    STRATEGY Home 30 22 Source: IEA Net Zero Roadmap, 2023 update.  Support and Enable Clients to Achieve Net Zero Before 2050  We recognize there are challenges with transitioning to a low-carbon economy, but there are also opportunities—for innovation, jobs  and growth.  Given our global"
"presence and relationships with clients across industries and in more  than 35 countries, combined with the experience of navigating our own climate journey,  we believe we are well positioned to assist our clients and provide them with the advice  and financial solutions necessary for them to achieve their transition goals. We also  recognize our responsibility to support a Just Transition by financing the transition to a  low-carbon economy in an equitable way that shares benefits and"
"minimizes negative  impacts on vulnerable groups. In 2021, we set a 10-year goal to mobilize and deploy  $1.5 trillion of sustainable finance capital by 2030. Aligned with the 17 U.N. SDGs, $1  trillion is dedicated toward the environmental transition. Through this goal, we advance  the environmental transition spanning sectors and geographies, including solutions in  energy efficiency, renewable energy, sustainable transportation (e.g. electric vehicles,  charging infrastructure, sustainable"
"aviation fuel and biofuels), resource efficiency,  sustainable water (e.g. water treatment and water desalination) and agriculture, as well  as improved forestry and pollution control measures.  We continue to expand our sustainable financing activities and capabilities, including  increased asset-based debt financing, tax incentive related investments and distribution  and capital raising across technologies and activities that support clean energy and  power, transportation and other industry"
"sectors, as well as nature and biodiversity.  Notwithstanding geopolitical and economic challenges, we remain focused and have  made significant progress toward our sustainable finance goal. See the Metrics and  Targets section for our full taxonomy as well as 2023 and cumulative progress. Through  the spectrum of capabilities delivered by our eight LOBs, we focus on helping clients  navigate every stage of their financial lives, working with companies, small to large, to  help drive the world"
"economy forward and providing insights, ideas and award-winning  research for institutional investors. Many of our original perspectives on the economy,  sustainability and global transformation are publicly available on the Bank of America  Institute website. Our goal is to position the Company as the financial partner of choice  for clients, whether they are at the beginning of understanding how a changing climate  could impact them or well on their way to managing their transition to a low-"
"carbon   economy.  STRATEGY Home 31 Just Transition  We define a Just Transition as transitioning to a low-carbon  economy in a way that is as fair and inclusive as possible to  everyone concerned, creating decent work opportunities and leaving  no one behind. Sustainable development can only be achieved by  striking the right balance between economic, environmental and  social components. For example, this includes that workers and  communities reliant on fossil fuels today for jobs and revenue"
"will  not be left behind as society transitions away from these fuels.  We are committed to supporting our clients, policymakers and other  stakeholders to identify and understand the social risks and  opportunities that arise from this transition. We also understand the  importance of a context-specific approach which recognizes that  the development needs of countries will differ. Highlighted within  this document are some recent efforts and ongoing work to  support the Just Transition."
"Mobilized and deployed $560B of sustainable  finance capital since announcing our Sustainable  Finance goal in 2021  Approximately $316B of sustainable finance capital  directed toward the transition to a low-carbon,  sustainable economy (2021 through year-end 2023)   Research and Insights  The Company’s Global Research organization is made up of award-winning  analysts who provide insightful, objective and in-depth research to clients across  the enterprise. Bank of America Global Research"
"delivers in-depth research and  analysis of Sustainability and ESG investment themes across asset classes and  regions. Global Research produces a suite of proprietary research reports including  thematic report publications that explore the five themes we believe are driving a  transforming world: people, innovation, markets, government and earth and their  related sub-themes. In addition, the Bank of America Institute publishes its own  insights to clients across the eight LOBs under key topic"
"areas – the economy,  sustainability and transformation.  These Institute publications are also made available to broader audiences to help  drive an understanding in consumer behavior and the economy. The Institute  findings are available to government and corporate leaders, small business owners  and investors, offering differentiation and exemplifying the Company as a thought  leader. Recent publications by the Institute on the topic of sustainability include  The Path to a Clean Energy"
"Future; Feeding the Future: How climate and agriculture  intersect (2023); IRA Ripple Effect: 10 areas of impact23.    STRATEGY Home 32 Economy  Data-driven trends in consumer  behavior that are shaping local and  global economies  Sustainability  How environmental and social  initiatives affect businesses,  communities and society  Transformation  Forward-looking strategy in  technology, cybersecurity and other  areas redefining business  23 Support and more information:"
"https://business.bofa.com/en-us/content/business-banking/corporate-sustainability-insights.html  Supporting and Enabling Clients across our Eight LOBs  Consumer Banking  Our Retail and Preferred Banking businesses serve millions of U.S.  consumers and small businesses whose needs are dynamic and evolving. As  consumer demand is a key part of the transition to a low-carbon economy,  we leverage the diversified capabilities of the Company to offer products and  services to meet clients’"
"sustainability needs, including:  • Digital and paperless products and services.  • 80% post-consumer recycled plastic cards.  • Loans and leases for both hybrid and fully electric vehicles, bundling home  charging station financing with auto loans (we have mobilized approximately  $6.4 billion in hybrid and fully electric originations since 2021).  • Rewards and benefits, including cash back rewards on electric vehicle  charging spend and enablement of tax credit for certain electric vehicle"
"leases.  • Sustainable and Impact Investing strategies through Merrill Edge® Self- Directed and Merrill Guided Investing.  CASE STUDY: Black Tie Moving  After seeing a trade show presentation, Black Tie Movers (BTM) asked their  small business banker about electrifying their vehicle fleet. We discussed  financing options to help the business stay competitive and provide long- term savings. Ultimately, we were able to assist BTM by increasing their  equipment lease line to $2 million to support"
"the electrification of their  vehicle fleet. BTM provides custom home, celebrity and commercial business  relocations nationwide.  We educate our small business clients on climate impacts through articles on  relevant sustainability topics that may be of interest. We work with the Bank of  America Institute to deliver the latest research on topics such as EVs, government  incentives and key industries that are impacted by climate transition goals to  consumers. We also garner client feedback"
"through our annual Business Owner  Report, where the most recent findings showed that 81% of small business owners  have implemented sustainable business practices in 2024, up from 75% in 202324.  Sustainability topics are now fully integrated into small business banker conversation  guides. Lastly, we host events, such as the Annual EVolution Virtual Show, an electric  vehicle summit, to drive awareness of available resources and offerings.  Global Wealth and Investment Management  Our Merrill"
"and Private Bank businesses within Global Wealth and Investment  Management (GWIM) serve high net worth and ultra-high net worth clients, who  have wide-ranging views and knowledge regarding climate opportunities and risks.  We are seeing an increase in clients who express the desire to align their investment  strategy with their sustainability preferences. Some also ask for visibility,  transparency, data and reporting outcomes of climate-focused and sustainable  investment strategies. As"
"clients evolve with shifting interests and as new themes  emerge (e.g. climate, infrastructure, decarbonization), we continue to evolve with  them.    STRATEGY Home 33 24 2024 Business Owner Report: https://about.bankofamerica.com/content/dam/about/report-center/sbor/2024/2024-BankofAmerica-Business-Owner-Report.pdf  STRATEGY Home 34 To help clients achieve their goals, we focus on:  • Educating our clients on sustainable investing to help close the  “aspirational gap” between client interest"
"and current levels of  adoption.  • Aligning client interests with availability of investment products (e.g.,  renewable energy, clean water and water scarcity) across asset  classes and investment vehicles (e.g., pooled investment vehicles,  separately managed accounts and alternative investments).  • Providing guidance and implementation to their advisors.  Our approach has generated results: interest in sustainable investing has  continued to grow over time, demonstrated by growth in GWIM"
"client  balances identified as sustainable from $25 billion in 2019 to $53 billion in  2023 and positive net flows over the same five-year period. Despite this  significant growth, we believe there is great opportunity to further  increase education and potential adoption of climate-friendly investments,  particularly given the need for investment in existing and emerging  technologies to support the transition to a low-carbon economy.   Chief Investment Office (CIO) Sustainable Environment"
"Portfolios  • Centrally managed, proprietary model, with a low investment  minimum primarily constructed with mutual funds and ETFs.  • Holdings are assessed for environmental exposure, using the CIO’s  internal evaluation of how they integrate environmental  considerations into the investment approach, in conjunction with  data from MSCI ESG Research. The majority of the components in  the strategy are intended to have an environmental focus.  TOP CLIMATE  THEMES  Climate  Transition  Climate"
"Change  Clean  Technology  Renewable  Energy  Sustainable  Infrastructure  Environmental  Priorities  *  *Environmental priorities include clean water, waste scarcity, sustainable and natural resources, agriculture, biodiversity and nature.  Understanding our Clients’ Needs  Customized and Holistic Solutions  We engage clients to understand where they are in their transition to Net Zero and what role they have in their respective value chain to support their  capital and funding needs against"
"their strategic priorities. It is through these insights that we can better provide advice and access to a spectrum of  financing solutions that align to client priorities and the pace at which they are able to execute each stage of transition.  Anticipation of Market Reactions  We provide corporate clients insights on how markets may react to various elements of their transition plans and how it could impact their cost of capital.  Our market insights and guidance are designed to help clients"
"understand how the transforming world is picking up on financing activities and the potential  impact to valuations and sector allocations.  Recognition of the Value of Investments  We help clients to understand how climate-related investments may be reflected in their valuation.  Global Banking  Our Business Banking (BB), Global Commercial Banking (GCB) and Global  Corporate & Investment Banking (GCIB) businesses within Global Banking  serve thousands of companies ranging from mid-sized and"
"middle-market  companies in the U.S. and major corporations across the globe. These clients cover  the full spectrum of the global economy, including manufacturing, transportation,  retail trade, food service, agriculture, technology, healthcare, nonprofit and  industrials. Our aim is to become a market leader in sustainability resources and  capabilities so that our clients can be successful in the transition to a low-carbon  economy, regardless of size.  Business Banking and Global Commercial"
"Banking  Many BB and GCB clients are suppliers to large manufacturers or other large  corporates, and as such are included in those companies’ Scope 3 emissions  calculations. Therefore, BB and GCB companies are experiencing increased interest  in their decarbonization plans from large manufacturers and large corporates as they  work towards their own sustainability goals.  In 2023, we continued educating our bankers on the business opportunities and the  ways we can assist clients with"
"decarbonization via six new sustainability-focused  training courses, including intermediate-level climate training, regulatory and legal  updates and new hire modules. Bankers received sales support materials such as  sector-specific primers outlining key climate trends, decarbonization pathways, and  case studies of leading industry players in a wide array of high-emitting sectors. In  total, BB and GCB bankers had held over 25,000 foundational sustainability  conversations with clients before"
"2023 year-end. These discussions uncovered a  range of opportunities to help deliver for our clients and win over prospects, from  financing and capital raising to thought leadership and advisory expertise. We remain  in close partnership with sustainability resources across the enterprise to  differentiate our capabilities in the market and drive meaningful client engagement.    STRATEGY Home 35 CASE STUDY: Global Precision Group  Bank of America assisted Global Precision Group (GPG) in"
"enhancing its  sustainable business practices by: (i) sharing practical financing advice such as  suggesting the client explore availability of IRA tax deductions for energy  efficiency projects, (ii) delivering industry benchmarking and research, and (iii)  providing a list of third party resources who could further support GPG in its  sustainability journey. Improving its sustainable business practices enabled GPG  to maintain the long-standing relationship with its largest client. GPG is a"
"privately owned precision machining company that processes and machines gray  iron, ductile iron, aluminum, nickel bronze and steel alloy materials for the  agricultural equipment and transportation industries.  Global Corporate and Investment Banking  Our approach to engaging with GCIB clients on their transitions is based on an understanding of their Net Zero needs. The clients we work with on sustainability typically fall  into four categories based on their industry and focus (see below). We"
"have fine-tuned our engagement approach based on client needs across these categories, as evidenced  by client case studies herein. Through our extensive engagement with clients on the transition to Net Zero, we have identified some common client actions and macro  considerations as they consider their climate impact and strategy (see the following page).  High Emitters are companies in carbon-intensive sectors looking to  decarbonize and evaluate new technologies to do so (e.g., auto"
"manufacturing, aviation, cement, energy, iron and steel, power generation,  maritime shipping). These clients seek our advice on how to manage capital  expenditures and investment in climate technologies, as well as a view into  market reaction to their energy transition plans and resulting impact on their  cost of capital.  Recent Adopters are companies who are not directly impacted by the  transition to Net Zero but are looking to incorporate sustainability into their  strategy and culture and"
"are at the very early stages of their sustainability  journey. These clients want to stay abreast of trends in the market,  benchmarking against peers and aware of best practices.  Sustainability Forward are companies who embed sustainability into their  products or supply chain or have it as a part of their core mission (e.g.,  apparel company with a sustainable supply chain). These clients seek our  advice on how to best position themselves in the market and green financing  solutions.  Pure"
"Play Sustainability are companies whose business models are built  around energy transition or sustainability solutions and are developing the  technologies needed by incumbent clients in high-emitting industries (e.g.,  renewable fuels, sustainable agriculture, etc.). These clients want to secure  necessary capital to develop technologies and ensure economic viability (e.g.,  strategic alternatives such as IPOs, JVs or M&A and creative ideas around  financing).  STRATEGY Home 36 CASE STUDY:"
"U.S. Steel  Bank of America served as a bookrunning senior manager on U.S. Steel’s $240  million tax-exempt private activity bonds with a green bond designation  focused on assets for handling, sorting, processing, treatment and recycling of  ferrous scrap metals for new electric arc furnaces, which will produce steel  primarily from scrap metal feedstock25. U.S. Steel produces and sells steel  products for clients in the automotive, construction, consumer, electrical, industrial  equipment,"
"distribution and energy industries.  CASE STUDY: TenCate Grass Holding B.V.  BofA Securities served as lead financial advisor to TenCate Grass Holding B.V.  who agreed to be acquired by a private equity firm. TenCate is a leading,  vertically integrated manufacturer, distributor and installer of artificial turf and  other surfaces, with a focus on pro-actively driving sustainability throughout its  industry by developing fully circular solutions.   CASE STUDY: Enlight Initial Public Offering  In"
"February 2023, BofA Securities served as an active bookrunner on the $289  million U.S. Initial Public Offering (IPO) of Enlight Renewable Energy Ltd. This  transaction marked the first U.S. IPO of a pure-play developer, owner and  operator of renewable energy projects in a new and growing industry and the  first U.S. listing for a Tel Aviv listed company since September 2014. Enlight is  a renewable energy company, combining greenfield development with power  production across segments of"
"renewables.  25 Source: U.S. Steel press release.  We help our clients navigate these challenges through our suite of solutions, and we continue to adapt and refine our product offerings to evolve alongside their needs.  The sustainability solutions we provide are built around our core products: Advisory, Debt and Equity Capital Markets and Lending. Across GCIB, we are strengthening our  partnership with BB, GCB and GSFG to help provide coverage across all products and project/asset-level"
"financing. This is expected to aid us in focusing on clients who  are developing emerging technologies and provide coverage to companies who will be leaders in the clean energy space, in addition to current coverage of incumbent  clients in high-emitting sectors working to transition.  STRATEGY Home 37 Client actions  toward Net Zero in  the context of macro considerations  Client Actions  Setting a  Net Zero target  and creating a plan  to achieve it  Investing  in emerging  technologies"
"critical to  decarbonization  Increasing  focus/pressure on supply  chain decarbonization  Evolving disclosures  to satisfy investors  and meet voluntary  and regulatory  frameworks    Macro Considerations  Challenging economics  for clean technologies  Understanding and  leveraging benefits  of the IRA and  other incentives  The challenge of  measuring and disclosing  Scope 3 emissions  Regulatory pressure  and increased global  reporting regimes  Shareholder and  investor preferences  Evolving"
"societal and  policymaker views about  the energy transition  Net Zero  in Action   Global Markets  The majority of Global Markets clients are institutional clients whose focus is  generally on market access and liquidity. As such, not all of our products drive  direct decarbonization, but rather they enable market liquidity, efficient flow and  allocation of capital and risk mitigation. For our corporate client base, we offer a  suite of on-and off-balance sheet financing solutions to help them"
"finance their  transition goals.  These corporate clients are focused on 1) accessing capital and investment  products to drive progress toward their climate transition goals and adapting to an  economy of low-carbon technologies and more resilient business models, 2)  seeking advice and guidance on how to best navigate and leverage the benefits of  governmental incentives (e.g., IRA.), 3) addressing emerging regulatory  requirements and transition to a low-carbon economy, and 4) gaining"
"transparency  on criteria to improve sustainability rankings to drive down the cost of capital and  improve valuations. The Company assists them in their transition journey through  multiple Global Markets groups:  Global Sustainable Finance Group: Provides asset-based debt financing, tax  incentive-related investments and distribution, capital raising and other firm- wide solutions to scale and mobilize capital for:  • Mature decarbonization technologies: wind and solar; distributed generation"
"(residential, commercial and industrial solar); EVs and EV infrastructure,  energy efficiency, battery storage, geothermal energy  • Emerging decarbonization technologies: clean hydrogen, SAF, carbon capture  and sequestration, renewable natural gas, advanced manufacturing, water  and sanitation  • Emerging markets through blended finance solutions  STRATEGY Home 38 Just Transition in our Financing Activity26  The Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund, a component of the IRA, offers an  opportunity to"
"bring capital to low-income communities to rapidly deploy low- and  zero-emissions technologies. Our Community Development Financial Institutions  (CDFI) and Global Sustainable Finance teams are advising clients on how subsidies  and credit enhancements can be used to leverage private capital to reach these  low-income and disadvantaged communities. Our GCIB and Global Markets teams  are also incorporating Just Transition considerations into a range of financing  strategies and opportunities,"
"both in the U.S. and around the world. The teams work  to mobilize and deploy capital to advance environmental sustainability and  socioeconomic empowerment for underserved populations and in underserved  regions.  Internationally, we work with the Sustainable Markets Initiative and other forums to  partner with governments, regional lenders, multilateral development banks (MDBs),  development finance institutions (DFIs) and philanthropies to help accelerate the  flow of private capital toward"
"sustainable development in emerging markets. Our  work includes exploring opportunities with MDBs, DFIs and energy developers in  Africa, supporting Just Energy Transition Partnerships with both Indonesia and  Vietnam, and developing renewable energy and clean transportation infrastructure  projects located in Small Island Developing States in the Caribbean. We have also  co-invested in several high-impact blended finance vehicles with DFIs and private  and philanthropic investors that are"
"increasing clean energy access in sub-Saharan  Africa, through expansion of solar energy across residential, commercial and  industrial and mini-grid sectors.  A financing portfolio of solar  generation for residential and  commercial/industrial customers  and EVs, comprised of 177 wind  farms, 68 solar farms and nearly  150,000 rooftop installations.  BONDS With the guidance of GCIB, the  Company continues to be one of  the largest U.S. corporate issuers  of sustainability-themed bonds.  Since"
"2013 through year-end 2023,  we have issued S14.93B across six  green, two social and three  sustainability bonds.  In 2023  our GCIB business was  No. 4 globally  in ESG debt issuance volumes  and  No. 2 globally  in Green Bond issuance volumes.  26 Sources: https://about.bankofamerica.com/en/making-an-impact/blended-finance; https://about.bankofamerica.com/en/making-an-impact/sustainable-finance  Global Commodities: Provides liquidity through market-making of derivative  instruments and other"
"financial products for renewable fuels, transition metals  and other environmentally-important products; delivers financing and investment  solutions to help support the build out of low-carbon commodity products and  other risk management solutions.  Carbon Credits  An active carbon market, including both emission allowance trading as well  as high-integrity carbon credits, is expected to play an increasingly  important role in achieving decarbonization at a low cost in addition to  providing"
"resiliency, preserving biodiversity and other co-benefits.  Our Global Commodities group within Global Markets is an active market  participant in the most traded compliance carbon markets in Europe and  North America (EUA, UKA, CCA, RGGI and WCA), voluntary carbon offsets  markets and other power-related environmental attributes (RECs)27. In  2023, we transacted with power generation, energy and industrial clients  who hedge risk in their regulated carbon exposure as well as service sector"
"clients who procured carbon offsets to compensate for residual operational  emissions from business travel. As it relates to the transportation sectors,  we help airlines, international couriers, maritime shipowners and long-haul  road freight clients on fuel switching initiatives to low-carbon fuels (such  as sustainable aviation fuel, renewable diesel and biodiesel) as well as trade  fuel-related environmental attributes (LCFS and RINs)28.  In 2023, we helped clients producing low-carbon fuels"
"with efficient financing  solutions and began working with clients procuring low-carbon fuels to risk-manage  these new exposures. In addition, see pages 21, 25, 81 and 83 for information on  the Company’s carbon credit activities.  Municipal Banking and Markets: Executes sustainable municipal transactions  across multiple states, cities and local governments for issuers ranging from  airports, mass transportation, housing, pollution control and sanitation.  Global Mortgages and Securitized"
"Products: Extends financing through three  segments: Asset-backed Securitization (ABS), Commercial Real Estate (CRE) and  Subscription Finance. To help accelerate their transition to Net Zero, Global  Mortgages and Securitized Products is focused on providing various financing  solutions for clients.   Global Rates and Credit: Enables market participants to finance their climate  transition targets by providing liquidity and supporting secondary trading in  sustainability-linked instruments and"
"partners with Debt Capital Markets to help  our clients with sustainability-linked issuances.  Global Equities: Provides liquidity and supports secondary trading volume for  sustainability-themed exchange-traded funds (ETFs), index swaps and a suite of  liquid custom basket solutions as well as providing sustainable portfolio and  execution strategies.      STRATEGY Home 39 27 EUA: European Union Allowance; UKA: United Kingdom Carbon Emission Allowance Market; CCA: California Carbon Allowances;"
"RGGI: Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative; WCA: Washington Carbon Allowance  Market; RECs: Renewable Energy Credits.  28 LCFS: Low-Carbon Fuel Standard; RIN: Renewable Identification Numbers.  Deploying Capital Into Nature-positive Areas  We see increased opportunities to work with our clients to help deploy capital into  new nature-positive areas aligned with our goal to mobilize and deploy $1.5 trillion  in sustainable finance by 2030. One way we are supporting clients in this area is  through"
"thematic and structured bonds that focus on biodiversity and debt-for- nature provisions.  The Company is also leveraging its position in sustainability-linked balance-sheet  financing by looking for opportunities to link our corporate banking clients’ nature- related targets to different sustainability-linked financing products. We recently  developed a sustainable supply chain financing program with PureCircle, a subsidiary  of Ingredion. PureCircle was able to deploy sustainable agricultural"
"practices across  its small- to medium-enterprises farmer supply chain for stevia leaf, a natural  sweetener.  CASE STUDY: Gabonese Republic Debt-for-Nature-Swap29  Bank of America served as initial purchaser, structuring agent, dealer- manager and book runner on the first-ever debt-for-nature transaction in  Continental Africa to refinance $500 million of sovereign debt for the  Government of Gabon. Political risk insurance of up to $500 million provided  by the U.S. International Development"
"Finance Corporation resulted in a Aa2  investment grade rating which attracted investors, extended the tenor and  lowered interest payments. In addition, Gabon will contribute $163 million  (including endowment returns) in new funding for nature and ocean  conservation, with The Nature Conservancy as the project manager and  technical advisor, supporting their commitment to protect 30% of its lands,  freshwater systems and ocean by 2030.  We are engaged in raising capital for companies active in"
"emerging areas such as  the alternative protein and sustainable farming sectors, and we have deployed  capital into blended finance vehicles with a focus on natural capital, such as climate- smart and regenerative agriculture and food systems transformation in emerging  and developing economies. Examples of our capital contributions include our  investment made in 2023 in the responsAbility Climate Smart Agriculture & Food  Systems Fund. As previously mentioned, our Commodities business is also"
"active in  the voluntary carbon credits market with a focus on nature-based solutions such as  blue carbon, carbon soil sequestration, reforestation and afforestation.  Aligned with the goals of the Mangrove Breakthrough Initiative, we are leveraging  our diverse financial product expertise and philanthropic resources to help mobilize  $4 billion by 2030 to protect 15 million hectares of mangroves which could deliver  an array of economic, carbon sequestration, climate resilience and"
"biodiversity  benefits30.     STRATEGY Home 40 29 Source: https://newsroom.bankofamerica.com/content/newsroom/press-releases/2023/08/bank-of-america-refinances-gabon-sovereign-debt-for-nature-and-o.html  30 The Mangrove Breakthrough Initiative is a science-based goal for non-state actors and governments to collectively restore and protect mangroves. Source: UN Framework Convention on Climate Change -  Climate Champions.  Supporting our clients in high-emitting sectors  In addition to the support"
"outlined above across LOBs, at Bank of America we have applied an additional focus on supporting our clients in high-emitting sectors as  outlined below.    STRATEGY Home 41 Sector Decarbonization Levers  Auto  Manufacturing  • Shift to Electrification: Realign businesses to EVs, including battery EVs (primarily light- duty vehicles) and fuel cell EVs powered by green hydrogen (primarily heavy-duty  vehicles).  • Higher Efficiency ICE: Expand internal combustion engine (ICE) portfolio of"
"vehicles  with higher energy efficiency in usage.  • Direct Use of Renewables: Switch to renewable energy for aluminum production and  battery assembly. Switch to biomass for plastics production and for aluminum.  • Direct Efficiency Improvements: Increase production or logistics efficiencies.  • Supply Chain use of Renewables: Source green materials (sustainably sourced or  manufactured raw materials).  • Supply Chain Efficiency Improvements: Increase efficiency of suppliers’ electrical"
"consumers, procure best-in-class low-carbon steel.  • Circularity, Recycling and Supply Chain: Increase recycling share for aluminum and  transform to scrap-based electric arc furnace (EAF) steel; redesign existing products  and increase recycling.  • Shift to the Future of Mobility: Realign the business to mobility modes (e.g.,  autonomous vehicles, e-scooters) that lessen the overall dependency of high-emitting  transport.  • New Processes: Switch to direct reduced iron (DRI) EAF production"
"route for steel and  to bio-based plastics manufacturing.  • Support for Higher-Blend Fuels: Supporting vehicles for the uptake of higher-blend  fuels (e.g. E15 and higher) that are increasingly available to consumers.  • Remove Carbon: By purchasing verified carbon offsets as well as investing directly in  negative emission technologies (e.g., carbon capture), including capturing remaining  emissions in steel, plastics or batteries manufacturing.  • New Fueling Infrastructure: Investments in"
"end-use alternative refueling and electric  charging infrastructure.  Power  Generation  • Clean Energy: Realign power generation sources to renewables (wind, solar, biofuels,  battery storage, other) and nuclear.  • Grid Modernization: Modernize transmission and distribution system to enable  connections with renewable energy and distributed energy resources, increased  electrification, enhanced reliability and resilience and improved efficiency and  metering.  • Fuel Switching: Transition from"
"higher emitting to lower-emitting energy sources as  medium-term bridge to clean energy (e.g., coal to natural gas, fossil fuel generation to  renewables including biofuels).  • Operational Efficiency: Streamline generation processes (e.g., implementing predictive  maintenance).  • Remove Carbon: By purchasing verified carbon offsets as well as investing directly in  negative emission technologies (e.g., carbon capture).  Energy  • Minimize and work to eliminate flaring and fugitive methane"
"emissions: Deploy  technologies and actions to minimize flaring and lower methane emissions, with  third-party monitoring, leak detection, control devices and component replacements.  See “Note on Methane” below.  • Clean Molecules:  ◦ Renewable Fuels: Increase production of biofuels (e.g., ethanol, biodiesel, sustainable  aviation fuel and renewable natural gas) to facilitate fuel switching.  ◦ Green Hydrogen: Generate on-site low-emission hydrogen via electrolysis.  • Clean Electrons: Shift to"
"Electrification - Increase the usage of electric power in gas  compressors and other on-site equipment.  • Oil to Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG): Increase production of LNG to facilitate fuel  switching.  • Decarbonize Core Processes: Reduce waste and resource intensity, enhance energy  efficiency and more deeply engage supply chain on decarbonization.  • Remove Carbon: By purchasing verified carbon offsets as well as investing directly in  negative emission technologies (e.g., carbon capture)."
"Deploy carbon capture,  utilization and storage (CCUS) technologies to CO2-intensive processes along the oil  and gas supply chain.    STRATEGY Home 42 Sector Decarbonization Levers Aviation  • Increase SAF Uptake and Deployment: Support clients in securing SAF to  transition from high carbon jet fuel to low carbon SAF.  • Support SAF Development and Infrastructure: Increase the availability and  development of low carbon SAF as well as the supporting infrastructure to  transport SAF to its end"
"use.  •  Fleet Modernization: Retrofit aircraft for increased fuel efficiency and acquire  aircraft with higher efficiency engines and/or building design to lower fuel usage  and resultant CO2 emissions as older aircraft are retired.   • Remove Carbon: Purchase of verified carbon offsets as well as direct investment in  negative emission technologies (e.g., carbon capture).  • Alternative Propulsion Technologies: Support the development and/or purchase of  new aircraft technologies such as"
"hydrogen or electric planes.  • Operations Efficiencies: Trajectory optimizations allow aircraft to operate optimum  profiles, reducing fuel burn and CO2 emissions.  Cement  • Clinker Production and Substitution: Substitute clinker for less carbon-intensive  materials, such as by-products from other industries or alternative raw materials.  • Capture and/or Remove Carbon: Invest directly in carbon capture technologies to  be deployed in cement kilns, as well as purchase verified carbon offsets."
"• Energy Efficiency and Renewable Fuels: Leverage alternative fuels as a replacement  for conventional fossil fuels.  In addition to considering decarbonization actions for each sector, we also recognize  the interdependent cross-sectoral nature of the transition to a low-carbon economy.  A few examples of this include:  • Efforts in the energy sector to reduce flaring and fugitive emissions also  reduce the Scope 3 lifecycle emissions in other sectors where natural gas is  used (especially"
"power, auto and cement).  • Achieving power generation decarbonization magnifies the impacts of  electrification in other sectors by providing more zero-carbon electricity  available for purchase and use (especially auto pivot to EVs, and energy sector  deployment of electric compressors).  • Efforts in the energy sector to develop clean molecules (renewable fuels) can  support aviation sector achievement of SAF targets.  • Efforts in the energy sector to advance commercial readiness of CCUS can"
"create positive spill over into manufacturing sectors (e.g., cement).  CASE STUDY: LG Energy Solution Inaugural Green Bond  Bank of America served as a joint bookrunner on LG Energy Solution’s $1  billion inaugural green bond, with use of proceeds allocated to finance or  refinance new or existing projects related to low-carbon transportation and  energy efficiency. LG Energy Solution is one of the largest producers of  rechargeable lithium-ion batteries in the world with the largest number of"
"production base globally and offers a wide array of battery products for various  applications, such as advanced automotive batteries, mobile and IT batteries  and energy storage systems.  Auto Manufacturing  Reducing emissions from light trucks and passenger vehicles is critical to the overall  decarbonization of the economy and the effort to limit warming to below 1.5°  Celsius. GHG emissions from road vehicles totaled nearly 6.0 gigatonnes (Gt) of  global CO2e in 2022, with light-duty"
"vehicles contributing nearly 50% of that total. In  totality, road emissions represented 16% of total global CO2e emissions. Behind  coal, road transportation represents the second largest single source of global CO2e  emissions. Given the importance of the overall road transportation sector to the  global decarbonization effort, we see focus on this sector’s decarbonization  trajectory as vital to our 2050 goals.  As our auto manufacturing clients begin and continue along their decarbonization"
"journeys, there are several specific key actions that will make the largest impact in  reducing overall GHG emissions. For most light-duty vehicle manufacturers, the vast  majority of emissions are from vehicle use and manufacture of components  (measured in Scope 3). The shift to electric vehicles is the clear long-term pathway  to decarbonization. There are other levers, as noted above, but it is well understood  by our clients in the space that the shift to electrification is the most"
"important. To  be aligned to the IEA’s Net Zero by 2050 pathway, the auto manufacturing sector as  a whole must reach 65% electric vehicle sales by 2030 and end new internal  combustion engine (ICE) vehicle sales by 203531.  CASE STUDY: Stellantis Inaugural Green Bond  Bank of America served as a green structuring agent, joint bookrunner and  billing and delivery agent on Stellantis’s €1.25 billion seven-year inaugural  Green Bond offering in accordance with the newly established Green Bond"
"Framework. Stellantis will allocate an amount equal to the net proceeds of  any Green Bond issued under its 2023 Green Bond Framework to  investments and expenditures related to the design, development and  manufacturing of Zero Emission Vehicles that are Battery Electric Vehicles  (BEV) and Fuel Cell Electric Vehicles (FCEV). Stellantis is a global automaker  and mobility provider.  Scope 3 accounts for the majority of emissions for auto manufacturers. For  traditional ICE vehicle"
"manufacturers,, this is comprised mostly of Scope 3  downstream activities (e.g., vehicle use). As the industry moves toward EVs, this is  expected to shift as Scope 3 downstream emissions decrease and Scope 3  upstream emissions increase (e.g., supply chain). Electric vehicles produce more  emissions in production, but less in operation when compared to traditional internal  combustion engine vehicles. This will likely result in an increased focus on the  emissions of original equipment"
"manufacturer suppliers. There are several levers  that auto manufacturers can pull to influence their Scope 3 upstream emissions,  including increase of secondary (recycled) materials rate in sourcing of aluminum,  steel, polymer, electronic, and batteries and adopting circular business models.   As auto manufacturers have shifted their focus to developing their EV capabilities,  we have shifted with them. We engage them in discussions on mergers and  acquisitions for their supply chain to"
"support the shift to electrification components  and green bonds and other bespoke financing alternatives that address their desire  to integrate their funding into their transition strategy. More recently, we have been  discussing how the IRA impacts their investment decisions and how project finance,  tax equity and tax credit transferability can be tools for them to use.  To better support client engagement, we have created a Mobility Team within GCIB  which coalesces bankers from"
"industrials, natural resources and technology teams to  provide coordinated coverage across clients in the supply chain who will be critical to  the EV transition. These can include battery developers and EV parts manufacturers.  By evolving our offering and coverage model, we are building upon the deep  relationships we already have with clients to further our success.  Power Generation  The global power and utility sector comprises 27%32 of global GHG emissions and  necessitates the most rapid"
"decline in emissions among sectors for the global  transition. Decarbonization in this sector is critical to limit climate change in line with a  1.5° pathway. To meet our 2050 goals, and as one of the largest finance providers to  the sector, it is imperative that we support our clients in making their transition,  especially given the interdependencies with other sectors. For instance, with   electrification of the auto sector, demand for power will increase.      STRATEGY Home 43 31 Source:"
"IEA Electric Vehicles.  32 Source: Boston Consulting Group.  The power sector is already facing headwinds, with global electricity demand expected  to rise at a faster rate over the next three years, on average by 3.4% annually through   2026, according to the International Energy Agency33. Some of the most significant  drivers of this are expected to be economic growth outside of advanced economies,  increased electricity demand from data centers, artificial intelligence (which impacts  data"
"centers, though not all data centers are equipped for AI) and cryptocurrency.  As our clients begin and continue along their decarbonization journey, there are  several specific key actions that will make the largest impact in reducing overall GHG  emissions, such as shifting power generation sources to renewables and nuclear,  modernizing transmission and distribution systems and streamlining generation  processes. There is a well-defined pathway to decarbonization through renewable  energy –"
"primarily wind and solar. The technology is both mature and economically  viable, with significant investment directed toward it. There has already been  significant progress, and investment in clean energy continues to grow.  We support a wide range of companies, from large cap utilities who are building  renewable capabilities into their mix to emerging technology providers. Our  coverage model is integrated to include Financial Sponsors and Sovereign Wealth  Funds which have also made"
"significant investments in the space. We have  dedicated bankers who focus on energy transition in our natural resources and  emerging growth teams and we integrate our energy transition specialists with   coverage of traditional utilities to provide a complete picture.  CASE STUDY: National Grid  Bank of America served as a Joint Active Bookrunner and Billing & Delivery  Agent on the Green tranche for National Grid’s issuance of a dual tranche  €1.75 billion bond offering with €750 million in"
"Green notes. National Grid  has identified itself as “the energy transition company” and aims to be a  leader in supporting the clean energy transition. National Grid is an electricity  and gas delivery company serving millions of customers through its networks in  the U.K., and New York, Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Vermont in the  U.S.  CASE STUDY: Snam Transition Bond  Bank of America acted as a joint global coordinator and joint bookrunner on a €500m  E.U. Taxonomy-aligned Transition"
"Bond offering for Snam S.p.A. (“Snam”) into Italgas  S.p.A. (“Italgas”). Snam intends to use the net proceeds from the issue of the  exchangeable bonds to finance or refinance, in whole or in part, existing and/or future  Eligible Projects, as set forth in their Sustainable Finance Framework. The landmark  transaction is the first ever transition-exchangeable bond and the third Italian equity- linked bond issuance since August 2023.  Financing is a key need for clients developing renewables"
"projects, whether they are  a public utility or a start-up project developer. We combine our debt capital markets  and tax equity franchises to offer clients holistic and customized financing solutions.  Equity capital markets and M&A are also critical products, and our team leverages  in-depth market knowledge to provide best alternatives for our clients. As the  environment and regulations have changed, we are adapting the tax equity product  to focus on an originate-to-distribute model which"
"will be less balance sheet and tax  capacity intensive. GCIB is partnering with GSFG to develop this new market for tax  credits, combining the structuring expertise and deep relationship base to identify  the most likely users of the tax credit product.  Energy34  The energy sector remains one of the most important pieces to the overall  decarbonization of the economy and the effort to limit warming to below 1.5°  Celsius. Emissions from oil and gas refining, production and transportation"
"(scope 1  and 2), represent approximately 5.1 Gt in CO2e emissions or 15% of the global  energy-related GHG emissions total in 2022. The end use of oil, gas and other  petroleum products contribute an additional 40% of global CO2e emissions. In  totality, energy accounts for more than three-quarters of all global CO2e emissions,  by far the largest contributor to global emissions. Decarbonization efforts focused  on reducing intensity of operations and lowering usage will have an outsized effect"
"on the global reduction of GHG emissions.    STRATEGY Home 44 33Source: IEA Electricity 2024 report.  34 Sources for certain data in this section: IEA; IEA World Energy Outlook 2023 report; IEA GHG Data and Statistics.  The pathway to decarbonization is more complicated in the energy sector compared  to automotive manufacturing and power generation. Approximately 15% of global  emissions result from the production of energy - reflected as the energy sector’s   Scope 1 and 2 emissions – but"
"another 40% result from the burning of hydrocarbon  fuels by other industries – reflected as the energy sector’s Scope 3 emissions. There  are levers energy companies can pull to reduce their Scope 1 and Scope 2  emissions. While Scope 3 emissions remain a challenge, there are additional levers  to address end use as well.  Decarbonization drivers in the energy sector have largely bifurcated into two main  approaches: 1) the “clean electrons” approach, which focuses on producing and using  clean"
"electricity for petroleum operations. The clean electrons approach has  dominated decarbonization efforts in the past, while 2) the “clean molecules”  approach has gained momentum as technology has improved.  Note on Methane  Bank of America and certain clients (including some in the methane  measurement and monitoring space) are part of a financing working group in  the newly launched (2023) Methane Abatement Financing Taskforce led by  Climate Bonds Initiative. Refer to the IEA for more"
"information.  As part of our Client Transition Plan Assessments for oil and gas clients, we  specifically look to understand their methane abatement plans and emissions  reductions targets.  And, we are one of the largest financing providers for more efficient  compressors, which reduces the amount of methane leaking into the  atmosphere.  According to the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the global  warming effect of methane is approximately 84-87 times stronger than carbon"
"dioxide over a 20-year period, and 28-36 times stronger over a 100-year period.  The energy sector is the second largest source of methane from human  activity, and the abatement of methane emissions is critical to limit global  temperature rise. According to the IEA’s Net Zero Emissions by 2030 Scenario,  a 75% cut in methane from fossil fuel operations is needed by 2030 to limit  global warming to 1.5° Celsius. The Company is committed to helping clients  reduce methane emissions35.  Clean"
"molecules focuses on the generation of alternatives to petroleum products  (biofuels, hydrogen and CCUS technologies). The technologies and engineering  deployed by energy companies will be critical to addressing decarbonization across  not only the energy industry, but also other industries that rely on burning fuel.  Within our coverage groups (Natural Resources and Emerging Growth), we have  dedicated bankers to focus on energy transitions. We are leveraging our strong  historic knowledge of"
"incumbent energy providers while integrating our energy  transition experts to deliver holistic and customized solutions to our clients. Our  energy bankers engage closely with clients who are dedicated to low-carbon  solutions and energy transition in order to understand the client’s approach. Our  clients’ approaches vary across the industry: some are more focused on renewables,  others are more focused on carbon capture and still others are more focused on  hydrogen or leveraging their sub-"
"surface expertise to explore mining for transition  metals.  Once we have identified the client’s focus, our coverage teams bring in the  appropriate energy transition experts to discuss about the mergers and acquisitions  landscape, investment alternatives or capital raising. Sometimes these discussions  require insight from bankers in other sectors, such as agriculture to discuss  feedstocks for renewable gas or mobility to address battery storage. We have  developed our coverage model to"
"enable these cross-industry collaborations. More  recently, we have been discussing tax credit transferability. In the energy sector, our  clients are not only potential project developers, but also potential large buyers of  the tax credits.    STRATEGY Home 45 35 Sources: IEA methane tracker 2021, and also The Global Methane Pledge. “Methane is a powerful but short-lived climate pollutant that accounts for a third of net warming since the Industrial Revolution. Rapidly  reducing methane"
"emissions from energy, agriculture and waste can achieve near-term gains in our efforts in this decade for decisive action and is regarded as the single most effective strategy to keep the goal of limiting the  warming to 1.5˚ C within reach while yielding co-benefits, including improving public health and agricultural productivity.“ - The Global Methane Pledge (GMP), launched at COP28 by the E.U. and the U.S.  Aviation  The aviation sector is a major contributor to global emissions,"
"representing  approximately 2% of global GHG emissions in 202236. Aviation is a challenging  sector to abate, with limited opportunities to decarbonize in the short term.  CASE STUDY: SkyNRG Funding Round from Macquarie Asset  Management  Bank of America served as a sole placement agent to SkyNRG on an initial  investment of up to €175 from Macquarie Asset Management via the Macquarie  GIG Energy Transition Solutions (MGETS) Fund. This supports SkyNRG’s next  phase of growth and helps achieve"
"its ambitious goal to become a major SAF  producer through the development and operation of SAF production facilities.  One of the primary levers for aviation decarbonization is the use of Sustainable  Aviation Fuel (SAF). SAF has a lower carbon footprint compared to conventional jet  fuel, and it is produced from multiple sources, the most common of which are  currently renewable biomass and waste resources. Power to Liquid (PtL) SAF also  shows significant promise for the aviation industry,"
"especially once electricity grids  are decarbonized, thereby demonstrating the interdependency of sectors in a  successful transition. The SAF industry is still nascent but shows promise with a  significant increase in the number of offtake agreements in the past two years as  airlines demonstrate their commitment to the technology, and new projects boost  anticipated production capacity. Offtake agreements, whereby airlines are making  long-term commitments to purchase a given volume of SAF,"
"help provide certainty  of supply and demand for the produce and reduce the risk associated with  investments in new technology and infrastructure needed to produce. SAF is not  without challenges, including increasing demand of production volumes,  development of new technologies, scarcity of supply, competition with renewable  diesel for resources and higher costs relative to traditional jet fuels. The Mission  Possible Partnership (MPP) PRU scenario assumes SAF to account for 13% of  aviation"
"fuel consumption by 203037. Achieving this is key to bring these  technologies to market and enabling the ramp up in production needed for fuel  volumes to drastically increase in later years. Bringing the technologies to market  and unlocking IEA’s NZE 2050 Scenario estimates SAF demand to account for 11%  of aviation fuel consumption by 203038.  Another key lever for aviation decarbonization is increasing the fuel efficiency of  planes through fleet modernization, retrofit and engineering"
"improvements. The  MPP PRU scenario assumes efficiency gains of 2% per year39 are achieved by these  actions.  The Company continues to support the reduction of aviation emissions. In addition  to our own actions to champion SAF, we continue to support our airline clients -  major commercial and passenger airlines across the globe - in their adoption of SAF  and through support to purchase new high-efficiency aircraft and retrofit less fuel- efficient aircraft in their fleets. In 2023, the"
"Company helped launch a first-of-its- kind coalition in Minnesota dedicated to SAF production. Through the GREATER  MSP Partnership, Bank of America, Delta Air Lines, Ecolab and Xcel Energy  established the Minnesota SAF Hub, which was the first large-scale SAF  collaboration in the U.S., committed to scaling SAF production to replace  conventional jet fuel.  Cement  The cement manufacturing industry is a major contributor to global emissions.  According to the IEA, cement accounts for"
"approximately 6.5% of global GHG  emissions. There are three primary levers for the cement industry to reduce its  carbon footprint:    STRATEGY Home 46 36 and 38 Source: IEA Aviation.  37 Source: Mission Possible Partnership.  39 Source: IATA Aviation Net-Zero CO2 Transition Pathways report.  1. Clinker Production and Substitution: Clinker is the key component of cement  and is produced by fusing limestone, clay and other materials in a high  temperature kiln. This is where the majority of"
"direct CO2 emissions are  produced. Cement manufacturers can use byproducts from other industries or  alternative raw materials, such as blast furnace slag, fly ash, calcined clay and  limestone filler, as less-carbon intensive clinker substitutes in cement  production. Some developers are also working on new cement types that do  not require clinker.   2. Carbon Capture: Carbon capture is a process that captures CO2 from direct  sources or the atmosphere and then stores or reuses the captured"
"CO2. This  technology is particularly important for hard-to-abate sectors. For cement  manufacturers, this technology is required to capture unavoidable CO2  emissions from limestone calcination during the clinker production process.  3. Energy Efficiency and Renewable Fuels: Cement production is a highly energy- intensive process and demands large amounts of heat input. Cement   manufacturers can leverage alternative fuels, such as refuse-derived fuels,  biomass or low-carbon hydrogen, as a"
"replacement for conventional fossil fuels  to reduce their Scope 1 emissions. Additionally, Scope 1 emissions can be  reduced with the electrification of cement kilns. Clean electricity is also a key  lever to decrease Scope 2 emissions.  Many of our clients in the cement sector not only have Scope 1 and 2 emissions  reduction targets, but also have specific targets for clinker substitution, use of  alternative fuels and use of carbon capture technology. We continue to support our  clients with"
"the financing needed to reduce their emissions in this highly carbon- intensive production process. As this document reflects year-end 2023, industry  details are not included for the iron and steel and maritime shipping sectors. Those  targets were announced in April 2024; more details can be found in the Metrics and  Targets section and also in our TCFD Addendum. We partner with various  organizations to support the decarbonization of high- emitting sectors. Key  organizations are as follows."
"STRATEGY Home 47 CASE STUDY: Cemex Inaugural Green Bond:  Bank of America served as a joint bookrunner, billing and delivery agent on $1  billion of new Green Perpetual NC5 Subordinated Notes for Cemex. The  transaction represented Cemex’s first green bond issuance. This unique hybrid  structure marked a landmark transaction in the building materials sector.  Proceeds will be used to finance or refinance eligible green projects - mainly  capital and select physical asset operating expenditures."
"Also included: research  and development for projects related to pollution prevention and control;  renewable energy; energy efficiency; clean transportation; sustainable water and  wastewater management; eco-friendly and/or circular economy adapted  products; and production technologies and processes.  Organization/Initiative  Sector  Overview  First Movers Coalition Multiple  Mobilizes collective demand for critical emerging technologies essential for the Net Zero transition. The FMC  is a"
"coalition of companies using their purchasing power to create early markets for innovative clean  technologies across seven hard-to-abate sectors.  Airports of Tomorrow Aviation  Addresses the technology, policy and financing needs of the transition to Net Zero aviation through strategic  dialogues between public and private stakeholders across the aviation value chain.  Sustainable Aviation Buyers  Alliance (SABA)  Aviation  Sustainable Aviation Buyers Alliance aims to accelerate the path to"
"Net Zero aviation by driving investment in  and adoption of sustainable aviation fuel (SAF). Members work to develop a rigorous, transparent system that  expands opportunities to invest in high-integrity SAF to all businesses and organizations interested in reducing  the climate impacts of flying.  Breakthrough Energy  Catalyst  Multiple  Breakthrough Energy Catalyst (Catalyst), a program within the larger Breakthrough Energy network founded by  Bill Gates, is a novel platform that funds and"
"invests in first-of-a-kind commercial projects for emerging  climate technologies. By investing in these opportunities, Catalyst seeks to accelerate the adoption of these  technologies worldwide and reduce their costs. Bank of America was one of the program’s first private sector  partners when we invested in 2021.  Mission Possible Partnership Multiple  MPP is a movement of climate leaders and companies driving industrial decarbonization across the entire  value chain of the world’s highest-"
"emitting heavy industry and transport sectors.  Actions and Dependencies Toward Achieving our Goals  There are factors outside of our control explained throughout this document which may heavily impact our ability to meet our Net Zero  targets and interim 2030 goals.  These dependencies include but are not limited to: climate-related data availability and quality; new decarbonization technology to meet Net Zero targets; lack of credible/  actionable transition plans by our clients; regulatory,"
"policy, political and societal views, and consumer behavior. Key actions we are taking toward progress in light of these  challenges are shown below. Refer to the Risk Management section for details about the third prong of our climate strategy: Assess and Manage Climate-related Risks. See  also: Cautionary Information and Forward-Looking Statements.  STRATEGY Home 48 Achieving 2030 Targets 2023  2024  2025  2026  2027  onward  Operations and supply chain  Grow percentage of renewable"
"electricity purchased through PPAs ✓ ✓ ✓ - - Complete installation of solar panels on buildings across occupied portfolio ✓ ✓ ✓ - - Evaluate success of piloting new, innovative technologies to address emissions in real estate and data center portfolios  ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓  Financing activity metrics and target setting  Annually calculate and disclose financing activity emissions metrics for all covered sectors to track progress ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓  Work to calculate additional financing activities, such as tax"
"equity and consider for inclusion in 2030 targets - ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓  Work to calculate facilitated emissions and consider for inclusion in 2030 targets - ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓  Assess targets and update as necessary to incorporate the latest climate science - - ✓ ✓ ✓  Evaluate other high emitting sectors for potential financing activity targets - ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓  Understanding client transitions  Continue to enhance client data capture as data quality and disclosures improve ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓  Build the capability to understand, on"
"a client level, how future changes in exposure or emissions intensity impact our  portfolio - ✓ ✓ - - Enhance our capabilities in understanding client transition plans - - ✓ ✓ ✓  Supporting and enabling clients  Provide advisory and financing for clean energy and transition activity, including supporting new technologies ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓  Advocating and engaging  Continue to advocate for consistent reporting standards ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓  Continue to advocate for regulatory and legislative developments that"
"enable the Just Transition to a low-carbon  economy  ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓  Continue to advocate for regulatory and legislative developments that enable scaling and commercialization of low- carbon technologies ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓  Risk management  Strengthen policies and procedures related to how we identify, measure, monitor and control climate risk ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓  Enhance risk identification process to incorporate physical and transition risk considerations across LOBs and control  functions  ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓  Continue to"
"refine industry climate risk ratings and country classifications ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓  Evolve climate risk reporting and metrics ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓  Advocate and Engage Stakeholders  Public Engagement  Our ability to reach Net Zero in our operations, supply chain and financing  activity is heavily reliant on many stakeholders, and we engage on policies,  regulations and partnerships that support this transition. We collaborate with  clients, investors, industry organizations, policymakers and community partners to"
"inform our perspectives and shape our efforts. We also have learned the importance  of sharing these external stakeholder perspectives with our employees.  As we continue to enhance our approach to reaching our Net Zero goal, we track and  monitor voluntary and regulatory expectations and participate in climate-related  collaborations to advocate for policies that support our strategy. Through our  engagement, we are focused on supporting the development of comprehensive  sustainability"
"reporting standards, allowing for more consistent and comparable  disclosure. We also encourage policies that support the infrastructure and  technological advances needed to effectively decarbonize our economy, while  promoting a just and balanced transition. We have a long history of leading and  participating in public-private and cross-sector coalitions and collaborations to drive  progress in these areas.  Investors and Shareholders  We engage with shareholders year-round through targeted,"
"active outreach and  responsiveness to inbound inquiries. Shareholder input from these engagements is  shared with our Board and with management. More on this can be found in the  Company’s 2024 Proxy Statement. In addition, we assess broader shareholder  sentiments, including voting results of our shareholders’ meetings. This ongoing  exchange is critical to how we drive progress on our sustainability initiatives and the  related risks and opportunities, among others. They inform and contribute"
"to  governance and disclosure enhancements that help us address the issues our  shareholders and key stakeholders tell us matter most to them. Exchanges since our  last report included discussions on our approach to transition planning and financing  activity emissions.  Industry Organizations  The Company participates in a number of organizations/initiatives to share expertise,  work on common challenges and advance progress and transparency toward a  sustainable future, including the"
"following:  Organization/Initiative Overview Bank of America Involvement  Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net  Zero (GFANZ)  A forum for the financial sector to support the transition to a Net Zero economy. We are a founding member of GFANZ, serve on the Principals and  Steering Groups and participate in various work efforts.  International Capital Markets  Association (ICMA)  ICMA and its members promote the development of the international capital and  securities markets, pioneering the rules,"
"principles and recommendations that  have laid the foundations for their successful operation. ICMA serves as  Secretariat to the Green Bond Principles (GBP) — of which Bank of America was  one of the original authors — the Social Bond Principles (SBP), the Sustainability  Bond Guidelines (SBG) and the Sustainability-Linked Bond Principles (SLBP),  providing support while advising on governance and other issues.  The Company has representatives on both the ICMA Board and the  ICMA Principles"
"Executive Committee, as well as on the ESG Working  Group of the ICMA Legal and Documentation Committee.  Net-Zero Banking Alliance (NZBA)  Industry-led, United Nations-convened banking alliance under GFANZ. which  develops guidelines and voluntary considerations for credible Net Zero  commitments and interim targets for banking members.  We are a founding member of NZBA, serve on the Principals and  Steering Groups and participate in various work efforts.  RMI’s Center for Climate-Aligned"
"Finance  Launched by RMI to support the financial sector’s role in transitioning the global  economy toward a zero-carbon, 1.5°C future, the Center for Climate-Aligned  Finance powers the finance sector’s climate ambition, developing practical  solutions to mobilize capital at the scale needed to finance a just energy  transition.  We assisted in the launch of the Center for Climate-Aligned Finance  and participate in various work efforts. STRATEGY Home 49  Organization/Initiative Overview Bank"
"of America Involvement Sustainable Markets Initiative (SMI) The Sustainable Markets Initiative was launched in 2020, by His Majesty King  Charles III, then The Prince of Wales. The Sustainable Markets Initiative has built a  coordinated, CEO-led global effort to enable the private sector to accelerate the  transition to a sustainable future. It follows the 10 Articles of the Terra Carta  mandate to provide a roadmap for its CEO members, alliances and supporters to  continue to partner, engage"
"and enable the transformation toward sustainable  markets and economies for Nature, People and Planet.  Bank of America Chair and CEO, Brian Moynihan, is the Chair of the  Sustainable Markets Initiative. Bank of America is a member of the  Sustainable Markets Initiative, and recipient of the Terra Carta Seal.  World Economic Forum (WEF)  International Business Council (IBC)  Stakeholder Metrics Initiative  Commissioned by the WEF IBC, the Stakeholder Metrics outline a recommended  set of 21 core"
"and 34 expanded metrics, drawn from existing global standards, to  drive toward a global convergence  of nonfinancial reporting. The work catalyzed a broader discussion  about the need for convergence of standards, and played a crucial role in the  genesis of the International Sustainability Standards Board.  Brian Moynihan recently completed a four-year term as chair of the  IBC where he led the group on the Stakeholder Metrics Initiative, along  with EY, Deloitte, KPMG and PwC. He now serves"
"as chair of the  Stakeholder Metrics Initiative, and we continue to incorporate the  metrics framework into our Annual Report to shareholders.  International Financial Reporting  Standards (IFRS) Foundation and  the International Sustainability  Standards Board (ISSB)  The IFRS Foundation is a not-for-profit, public interest organization established to  develop high-quality, understandable, enforceable and globally-accepted  accounting and sustainability disclosure standards. The IFRS formed the"
"International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB), which is delivering a  comprehensive global baseline of sustainability disclosures focused on the needs  of investors and the financial markets.  Bank of America supports ISSB’s development of IFRS S1 and IFRS S2  as a global baseline for sustainability reporting that is based on and  incorporates key principles from existing reporting frameworks such as  the TCFD recommendations, SASB standards and the WEF IBC  Stakeholder Capitalism metrics,"
"among others. Our Chief Accounting  Officer is an IFRS Foundation Trustee, and our Corporate Sustainability  Controller is a member of the Forum ISSB Preparers Group, which is a  collaboration between the WEF and the ISSB.  Partnership for Carbon Accounting  Financials (PCAF)  Global partnership of more than 500 financial institutions to develop a consistent  methodology to assess and disclose emissions associated with financial activities.  In collaboration with 15 other financial institutions,"
"Bank of America helped  develop the first version of the Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard  for the Financial Industry.  We have participated in the development of PCAF’s various accounting  methodologies. In 2022, we began quantifying and disclosing  emissions related to our business loan portfolio (financed emissions)  based on the PCAF standard.  We work with environmental partners to support science-based environmental  research and other climate-related initiatives. We"
"collaborate with our financial  services peers to understand data requirements and methodologies needed for  sector-specific decarbonization pathways. We join other companies that work  economy-wide to endorse U.S. government investments in low-carbon  infrastructure to address the physical and economic risks posed by climate change,  and we work with industry peers to define best practices and engage with  regulators pertaining to climate risk management. See the following page for a  partial"
"list of these partners. STRATEGY Home 50  Environmental Partner  - Organization/  Initiative  Overview  Taskforce on Nature- related Financial  Disclosures (TNFD)  One of Bank of America’s executives is a member of the 40-person Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD), whose  mission is to develop a risk management and disclosure framework for organizations to report and act on evolving nature-related risks and  opportunities, with the ultimate aim of supporting a shift in"
"financial flows toward nature-positive outcomes.  The Ocean Risk and  Resilience Action Alliance  (ORRAA)  ORRAA is the only multi-sector collaboration connecting the international finance and insurance sectors, governments, nonprofits and  stakeholders from the Global South to pioneer finance products that incentivize investment into coastal and ocean Nature-based Solutions  (NbS). Their mission is to activate at least $500 million of investment into this space by 2030, and in so doing, help"
"build the resilience of  250 million climate-vulnerable coastal people. This work is focused on building resilience and adaptive capacity of marine and coastal  ecosystems and the coastal communities around the world that rely on them. ORRAA drives investment into ocean and coastal Nature- based Solutions, and the mitigation of risk multipliers like overfishing and pollution. These solutions will enable the ocean and the  communities which depend on it to thrive, creating greater economic"
"security as well as social and cultural resilience for climate- vulnerable coastal communities.  1t.org Facilitates the leadership of U.S. companies, nonprofits, governments and individuals to reach a goal of conserving, restoring and growing  one trillion trees globally by 2030.  Clean Air Task Force Working to safeguard against the worst impacts of climate change by catalyzing the rapid global development and deployment of low- carbon energy and other climate-protecting technologies."
"Partnership for  Biodiversity Accounting  Financials (PBAF)  The PBAF Standard enables financial institutions to assess and disclose impact and dependencies on biodiversity of loans and  investments, providing practical guidance on biodiversity impact and dependency assessments and defining what is needed in order for  these assessments to deliver the right information to financial institutions.  Regulators and Policymakers  Achieving Net Zero will require collective action by governments at all"
"levels,  corporations, individuals, nonprofits and other actors. Our public policy team is  engaged with policy makers across the globe to help us understand and, where  appropriate, work to influence potential policy changes that could impact the  Company or our clients. Independently, and working with trade associations and  other collaborations, we promote policies that align with the roles played by financial  institutions in support of their clients in helping to finance the balanced and"
"Just  Transition to Net Zero. We support and encourage the role government  policymakers can play to accelerate the work underway in the private sector. In  addition to our continuously stated support for a price on carbon, read on for some  of our key areas of focus.  Climate Risk and GHG Emissions Disclosure  We continue to support convergence among the many efforts to drive transparent,  comparable and consistent climate risk and GHG emission disclosures. Companies,  investors, policymakers,"
"regulators and other stakeholders benefit from more  consistent and comparable disclosure on climate to assist in decisions as to where  best to deploy capital and support transition toward a Net Zero economy. To this  end, last year the IFRS ISSB took an important step in developing a global baseline  of comprehensive market-driven sustainability reporting with the launch of its  inaugural standards, IFRS S1 and IFRS S240. In doing so, the ISSB has aided in  driving the convergence of voluntary"
"and regulated disclosure toward greater  coherence. This work leveraged the World Economic Forum (WEF) International  Business Council (IBC) Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics, in which our company played  a leading role, and we and other companies have committed to beginning to align  our reporting to the new standards.  STRATEGY Home 51 40 IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information; IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures.  Facilitating Demand for Low-"
"Carbon Products  The viability of decarbonization pathways depends on both sufficient customer  demand for low-carbon products and conditions that enable effective supply to  meet the demand. We support public sector efforts to encourage, facilitate and  strengthen the necessary demand signals to drive effective decarbonization. For  example, in 2021 the White House announced a challenge to inspire the production  of at least 3 billion gallons of SAF per year in the U.S. by 203041, and in 2022"
"the  U.S. Department of Energy issued a plan in conjunction with several federal agencies  detailing a government-wide roadmap to achieve this goal43. These efforts are  supplemented by incentives in the IRA to drive production of SAF at a cost that is  competitive with traditional petroleum fuel. In addition to our other efforts around  SAF (pages 20 and 86), the Company is part of the Sustainable Aviation Buyers  Alliance (SABA) where we purchase SAF certificates at scale, along with other"
"buyers. These SAF certificates provide the market with a demand signal for fuel  producers to make more high-integrity SAF, which in turn influences SAF cost  competitiveness with conventional jet fuel. Our actions serve as another lever to  help advance the necessary economic signal stimulating clean technology and  market innovation to fuel new, low-carbon drivers of economic growth.  Nature Partnerships  We participate in coalitions to provide thought leadership and help advocate for  nature-"
"positive outcomes. For example, we are a member of the Natural Climate  Solutions Investment Accelerator which aims to build the demand-side for  investment in nature-based solutions. We are also on the Steering Committee of  the Ocean Risk and Resilience Action Alliance which is exploring how to scale  investment in areas like blue carbon to deliver both carbon removal and co- benefits such as restoring ocean ecosystems and improving the resilience of  coastal communities.  We dedicate"
"philanthropic resources to support innovative approaches to  leveraging sustainable finance to preserve nature. For example, we are funding  efforts by The Nature Conservancy and local leaders in Barbados to build out a  marine spatial plan that will protect 30% of the country’s marine areas42 by  2030. Execution of the plan will be funded by proceeds from a blue bond that  was issued by the Government of Barbados with co-guarantees provided by  InterAmerican Development Bank and The Nature"
"Conservancy. Previously, we  supported efforts by The Nature Conservancy to develop an insurance policy for  coral reefs that could be damaged during extreme weather events. Similar  policies are now in place in Mexico and in Hawaii, with more jurisdictions looking  to employ this strategy. In addition, we have been a long-time supporter of  Ocean Conservancy, participating in its Trash Free Seas Alliance and supporting  the International Coastal Cleanup, an annual global effort to remove debris"
"from  coastlines, as well as inland waterways, preventing this trash from polluting  marine ecosystems.  MDB Reform  Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs) and Development Finance Institutions (DFIs)  are in a key position to catalyze private investment in emerging and developing  economies. The inability of these entities to mobilize private capital at levels  required to meet the U.N. SDGs is a function of their current operating model which  is incentivized toward on balance sheet capital"
"deployment versus total capital  mobilization. Given the importance of crowding in private capital where it is needed  most, the Company is actively participating across a number of convening  organizations, such as SMI, GFANZ, the U.N. Global Investors for Sustainable  Development (GISD) and B20’s Finance and Infrastructure Task Force, to provide  recommendations with the goal of increasing MDBs and DFIs capital mobilization  abilities. These recommendations include, but are not limited to,"
"establishing and  reporting quantifiable targets focused on the total capital mobilized, making more  efficient use of their balance sheets through increased co-investing structures and  developing and scaling risk mitigation instruments such as guarantees and first loss  tranches.  41 Source: White House SAF press release, Sept. 2021.  42 Source: The Nature Conservancy.  43 Source: Department of Energy roadmap report Sept. 2022.  Capital Investment  While we continue to see growing client"
"interest in the energy transition, additional  capital will be needed to help drive the innovation necessary for a Net Zero  economy. We support public policies that facilitate such capital investment by  reducing the cost to deploy existing and emerging technologies and establishing  safeguards to protect workers and communities for a balanced and Just Transition,  as well as mitigating risk in order to catalyze private capital investment. Similar to  and in combination with MDB reforms,"
"government policies can mitigate risks to  STRATEGY Home 52  help participants across the financial sector aid companies in every industry innovate  and drive the desired outcomes. This can take many forms, including:  • Using public finance to help enhance returns for investments in climate  technology, including, through the use of tax incentives and concessional loans.  • Using public finance (either concessionary or first loss) to assist in de-risking  and reducing the “green premium” on"
"emerging technologies.  • Using public procurement power to help drive adoption of existing and  emerging technologies to reduce costs for all players.  • Supporting citizens and workers in affected communities during and  throughout the balanced transition.  Biodiversity Loss  We actively participate in the international policy discussions around biodiversity  loss, including sharing our expertise at the 2022 Biodiversity COP15 meeting in  Montreal, which adopted the Kunming-Montreal Global"
"Biodiversity Framework.  Infrastructure  Large scale infrastructure investments will be required to reach Net Zero, such as  grid modernization, decarbonization of public transportation and EV charging  infrastructure.  This may include:  • Comprehensive permitting reform that facilitates the construction of projects  at the scale, speed and certainty necessary to aid in the balanced and Just  Transition.  • Advancing efforts to bring affordable and climate-resilient clean energy to all"
"citizens via innovative solutions that are flexible and technology neutral.  • Incentivizing investment in smart grid infrastructure by electricity generators in  order to accelerate a more stable transition to diversified clean energy.  Complementary Government Policies and Collaborations  with Trade Associations  To encourage policy action, we collaborate within trade associations through cross- sectoral and financial sector alliances and with nonprofit partners. Some of these  associations"
"are listed below, though this list is not exclusive. Given the breadth and  scale of our business, the Company participates in numerous trade associations that  advocate on a range of topics relevant to our business. As such, we will not always  agree with every position taken by the trade associations in which we participate.  However, through active engagement, we share our policy positions with partners  and advocate for alignment with the goals we outline throughout this document.  Trade"
"Association About Climate Position Bank of America’s Role  American Bankers  Association (ABA)  Nonpartisan public policy, education, tools and insights  and advocacy group, representing banks of all asset  sizes and charter types. Bank of America is an active  participant in ABA’s Environmental, Social and  Governance Working Group and Climate Task Force.  ABA believes common-sense, market-based solutions offer  the best opportunity for addressing this worldwide issue. In  addition, every"
"effort should be made to prevent or  minimize economic dislocation from policy and market  changes, and to recognize the unique challenges facing  financial institutions in energy-intensive communities.  The Company participates in ABA’s  Environmental, Social and Governance Working  Group and Climate Task Force, focused on  discussions around proposed climate  disclosure frameworks.  Bank Policy  Institute (BPI)  Nonpartisan public policy, research and advocacy group,  representing the nation’s"
"leading banks. Bank of  America is an active participant in BPI’s Climate  Working Groups.  Supports efforts to develop and articulate principles-based  guidance for climate-related financial risk management. BPI  also supports efforts to develop a more consistent global  approach to addressing climate-related risks.  The Company participates in BPI’s Climate  Working Group focused on discussions around  various proposed climate disclosure rules,  climate-related financial risk and CSA. STRATEGY"
"Home 53  Trade  Association About Climate Position Bank of America’s Role Business  Roundtable (BRT)  Association comprised of CEOs working to promote a  thriving U.S. economy and expanded opportunity for all  Americans through sound public policy.  Business Roundtable CEOs are calling for a well-designed  market-based mechanism and other supporting policies to  provide certainty and unleash innovation to lift America  toward a cleaner, brighter future.  The Company participates in BRT’s"
"Corporate  Governance Coordinating Committee and  Energy and Environment Coordinating  Committee focused on reform and energy tax- related discussions.  Financial Services  Forum  Nonpartisan economic policy and advocacy  organization whose members are the CEOs of the eight  largest and most diversified financial institutions  headquartered in the U.S.  Promotes a principles and risk-based approach to managing  climate-related financial risks.  The Company participates in the Forum’s  Climate"
"Risk Working Groups.  Global Financial  Markets  Association (GFMA)  Global association of financial and capital market  participants to provide a collective voice on matters  that support global capital markets. Brings together  three of the world’s leading capital markets trade  associations to provide a forum for the largest globally  active financial and capital market participants to  develop standards to improve the coherence and  interaction of cross-border financial regulation.  GFMA and"
"its member organizations listed here are  committed to maintaining the efficiency of global financial  markets and providing help to its members as they serve  corporate clients in addressing physical and transition  climate risk. GFMA and its members prioritize a focus on  climate finance and mobilizing capital to finance the  transition.  The Company participates in GFMA’s  sustainable finance steering committee.  SIFMA  North American member of GFMA. As the voice of  America’s securities"
"industry, SIFMA represents  hundreds of broker-dealers, investment banks and  asset managers. Members facilitate access to capital,  provide advice, and offer products and services that  help clients achieve their long-term goals.  The Company participates in SIFMA’s  Sustainable Finance Task Force, which focuses  on global regulatory climate / voluntary carbon  markets discussions.  Asia Securities  Industry and  Financial Markets  Association  (ASIFMA)  Asian member of the GFMA alliance - an"
"independent,  regional trade association with over 160 member firms  of leading financial institutions.  The Company participates in ASIFMA’s  Sustainable Finance Committee and ESG  Committee.  Association for  Financial Markets in  Europe (AFME)  European member of the GFMA alliance, is the voice of  Europe’s wholesale financial markets, providing  expertise across a broad range of regulatory and capital  markets issues. It represents global and European  banks and other capital market players."
"The Company participates in AFME’s  Sustainable Finance Prudential Workstream  and Climate Risk Stress Testing Working  Group. STRATEGY Home 54  Trade Association About Climate Position Bank of America’s Role The American  Council on  Renewable Energy  (ACORE)  Focal point for collaborative advocacy across the  renewable energy sector. With a membership that  spans the renewable energy value chain, ACORE  promotes policies, regulations and financial structures  necessary for renewable energy"
"growth.  The first organization dedicated to expanding the pan- renewable economy in the United States. For more than two  decades, ACORE has sought to unite finance, policy and  technology to accelerate America’s renewable energy  transition.  The Company participates with as project  finance working group focused on sustainable  finance discussions, including the Basel III  proposal’s impact on tax equity.  Institute of  International Finance  (IIF)  Global association of the financial"
"industry, with about 400  members from more than 60 countries. Its mission is to  support the financial industry in the management of risks; to  develop sound industry practices; to advocate for regulatory,  financial and economic policies that are in the broad interests  of its members and to foster global financial stability and  sustainable economic growth.  Identifies and promotes capital markets solutions that support the  development and growth of sustainable finance, with transition"
"finance and blended finance as key components. In addition, the IIF  advocates for sustainable finance policies that prioritize prudential  risk management, financial stability and economic growth.  The Company participates in IIF’s Sustainable  Finance Policy Expert Group focused on discussions  around proposed climate disclosure frameworks,  climate-related financial risk, CSA and voluntary  carbon markets.  U.S. Chamber of  Commerce  Organization with members ranging from the small businesses"
"and chambers of commerce across the country that support  their communities, to the leading industry associations and  global corporations that innovate and solve for the world’s  challenges, to the emerging and fast-growing industries that  are shaping the future. Bank of America is an active participant  in the Chamber’s Energy, Environment, Climate and  Sustainability Policy Committee.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce believes there is common ground  on which all sides of the climate discussion"
"could come together to  address climate change with policies that are practical, flexible,  predictable and durable. They believe in a policy approach that  acknowledges the cost of action and inaction and the  competitiveness of the U.S. economy.  Bank of America participates in the Chamber’s  Energy and Environment Working Group focused on  discussions around proposed climate disclosure rules.  Political Spending Activities  For information on our political spending activities, please refer to"
"our Political  Activities disclosure available on the Bank of America Investor Relations website.  Community and Other Partners  Community stakeholders are engaged in part through our National Community  Advisory Council, a forum made of senior leaders from social justice, consumer  advocacy, community development, environmental and research organizations who  provide external perspectives, guidance and feedback on our business policies and  practices. See 2024 Proxy Statement for further"
"details.  STRATEGY Home 55 $21.5 million  In  2023 in philanthropic giving to  non-profit organizations focused  on addressing programs that  promote environmentally  sustainable development, jobs and  living.  Employee Engagement  Employees are critical to our ability to reach our Net Zero goal and effectively manage  climate-related risks and opportunities. We strive to equip our employees across the  Company with the skills and knowledge needed to drive our enterprise climate  priorities."
"Employees are provided resources and training on various climate-related  topics such as climate risk, sustainable finance and Net Zero. In fact many pursue third  party industry certification for climate and sustainability risk. Our company encourages  and supports employees seeking such industry certifications. Bank of America’s  learning organization, The Academy, oversees training across the enterprise to help  drive consistency, coordination and content development of Net Zero- and climate-"
"related learning assets. See the Strategy section for more information on our LOB- specific efforts to educate our bankers on climate and Net Zero.  One key way we engage with our employees on sustainability matters is through the  My Environment® program. With more than 25,000 employee members across 35  countries spanning six continents around the world, the My Environment® employee  program helps drive positive environmental change by engaging employees in our  environmental initiatives and"
"programs, and by providing opportunities to participate in  educational and volunteer events to help them act as better environmental stewards at  work, at home and in the community. Program elements include local market and  enterprise webinars, virtual discussion courses, lunch and learn sessions, newsletters  and employee engagement initiatives to reinforce sustainable living habits. In 2023,  My Environment® members contributed nearly 80,000 hours of volunteer time to  environmentally"
"oriented programs for local communities. STRATEGY Home 56 In 2023, employees completed nearly:  22,300 sustainability trainings, 10,700  Net Zero trainings, and  7,300 greenwashing trainings.   RISK MANAGEMENT  At Bank of America, risk is inherent in all our business activities. Managing risk well, a core tenet of  Responsible Growth, is the responsibility of every employee.  As the third prong of our climate strategy, the Company assesses and manages climate-related risks by embedding climate-"
"related factors into our  company-wide risk management framework. This is done, for example, by supplementing existing risk management policies, processes, activities with  climate risk considerations, where appropriate. RISK MANAGEMENT 57  Bank of America’s Risk Framework sets forth the roles and responsibilities for the management of risk by LOBs, GRM, other control functions and Corporate Audit. It  provides a blueprint for how the Board establishes our risk appetite and associated limits for"
"our activities by delegating authority to committees and executive officers.  Our Risk Framework also describes how we identify, measure, monitor, and control risk across the seven key risk types that we face: credit, market, liquidity, compliance,  operational, strategic and reputational. In our Risk Framework and Risk Appetite Statement, climate risk is identified as a risk spanning all seven key risk types. LOBs are  responsible for owning and proactively managing all risks in business"
"activities, including climate risks, while GRM provides second-line oversight of the management of  climate risks across the Company’s key risk types. In 2023, we created an internal Climate Risk Framework to promote a consistent approach to managing climate risk  across the enterprise. The Climate Risk Framework is built off the Company’s Risk Framework and addresses how we identify, measure, monitor and control climate risk.  The framework also details the roles and responsibilities for"
"climate risk management across the three lines of defense. We expect the Climate Risk Framework to evolve  over time as best practices in climate risk management continue to mature.  RISK MANAGEMENT Home 58 Climate Risk  Definition 44  Climate risk is the risk that climate change or  actions taken to mitigate climate change  expose Bank of America to economic,  operational or reputational harm. Climate- related risks are divided into two major  categories, both of which span across the  seven"
"key risk types:  1. Physical Risk: risks related to physical  impacts of climate change, driven by  extreme weather events such as hurricanes  and floods, as well as chronic longer-term  shifts such as rising average global  temperatures and sea levels, and  2. Transition Risk: risk related to the transition  of a low-carbon economy, which may entail  extensive policy, legal, technology and  market changes.  Climate Risk  Impacts  Climate Risk  Management  Identify  Measure  Monitor  Control"
"Roles and  Accountabilities  THREE LINES OF DEFENSE  Front Line Units  Own and proactively manage all  risks in business activities  Global Risk Management  Oversee risk-taking activities  within the front line units  and across the enterprise,  and provide independent  assessment and effective  challenge of risks  Corporate Audit  Provide independent validation  through testing of key  processes and controls  Climate Risk  Governance  44 44 Our definition of climate risk is climate-related"
"financial risk which is aligned with the interagency Principles for Climate-Related Financial Risk Management for Large Financial Institutions.  Source: Department of the Treasury, OCC, 2023.  Risk Identification  To be effectively managed, climate risk must be proactively identified and well understood.  Risk identification is an ongoing process that  incorporates input from stakeholders across the  LOBs and control functions with relevant expertise.  It is designed to be forward looking and"
"capture  relevant risk factors to which we are or may be  exposed. The LOBs and control functions identify  risks that are captured consistently in an enterprise- wide risk inventory and are reviewed quarterly.  In recent years, we have enhanced our risk  identification process to incorporate climate-related  factors such as physical (acute and chronic) and  transition risk across LOBs and control functions.  We continue to explore opportunities to expand risk  identification capabilities"
"related to physical and  transition risk and the resulting impacts to our  businesses. Last year, we expanded the Company’s  risk identification portal to embed additional climate  risk considerations including the ability to add  details related to sector, product and geography,  connecting new and existing risks to other  sustainability categories, aligning specific perils and/  or transition categorization and identifying time  horizons across the short- (< 3 years), medium- (3-5  years), and"
"long-term (>  years) time horizons.  RISK MANAGEMENT Home 59 Climate Granular Risks  Acute Physical Risk  Coastal Flood  Earthquake*  Extreme Cold  Extreme Heat  Fluvial Flood  Severe Storm  Wildfire  Wind  Chronic Physical Risk  Chronic Cold  Chronic Heat  Drought  Sea Level Rise  Transition Risk  Client Liability  Consumer Preferences  Regulatory  Stranded Assets  Technology  * *There is not scientific consensus whether earthquakes are impacted by climate, but they are included as it is a"
"significant natural disaster.  Bank of America Risk Types Physical risk example Transition risk example  Credit  Risk of loss arising from the inability or failure of a borrower  or counterparty to meet its obligations  Impacts on repayment capacity or collateral  caused by physical climate or environmental  event  Financial impacts to client revenue, income, cash flow, assets  or collateral due to climate or environment related policy,  legal, technology or market changes, including shift to"
"climate  or environment related investments  Market  Risk that changes in market conditions adversely impact the  value of assets or liabilities or otherwise negatively impact  earnings  Impacts to assets valuations or secondary  exposure to insurers caused by physical climate  or environmental events  Impacts to market prices due to climate or environment  related policy, legal, technology or market changes  Liquidity  The inability to meet expected or unexpected cash flow and  collateral needs"
"while continuing to support our businesses  and clients under a range of economic conditions  Sudden and unexpected decline in deposit  balances, increases in draws from unfunded  commitments or loss of access to funding  providers due to physical climate or  environmental events  Impact of clients needing more liquidity to fund capital  expenditures and other investments in response to climate or  environment related regulatory changes or changes in market  appetite  Compliance  Risk of legal"
"or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss or  damage to the reputation of the Company arising from the  failure of the Company to comply with the requirements of  applicable laws, rules and regulations or our internal policies  and procedures  Workplace disruptions from physical climate or  environmental events could impact our ability to  comply with regulatory requirements  Failure to meet rapidly emerging compliance requirements for  classification and disclosure in multiple"
"jurisdictions could  lead to regulator fines or sanctions  Operational  Risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal  processes or systems, people or external events  Workplace disruptions from physical climate or  environmental events impact our ability to deliver  services and/or execute important controls  Transition requirements that impact third-party service  providers may require bank businesses to change providers or  move processes in-house, creating operational risks"
"associated with change management  Strategic  Risk to current or projected financial condition arising from  incorrect assumptions about external or internal factors,  inappropriate business plans, ineffective business strategy  execution or failure to respond in a timely manner to changes  in the regulatory, macroeconomic or competitive  environments in the geographic locations in which we  operate  Impact of incorrect assumptions (e.g. capital  expenditures), inadequate planning or poor"
"strategy execution related to risks associated  with physical climate or environmental events  and trends  Impact of inability to quickly adapt and execute a strategy to  address changing regulatory requirements, client demands or  the competitive environment as it relates to the transition to  a lower-carbon economy or sustainable business practices  Reputational  The risk that negative perception of the Company may  adversely impact profitability or operations  Impact of perceived inadequate"
"management of  physical climate or environmental events on our  operations  Impact of negative perceptions regarding financing of high- emitting sectors or ability to achieve climate or environment  goals/targets RISK MANAGEMENT Home 60  Risk Management by Risk Type  Once a risk is identified, it should be appropriately measured, monitored and controlled.  We measure climate risks using a range  of methods and tools across the LOBs  and control functions, such as industry-,  country- and"
"borrower-level assessments  as well as scenario analysis to better  understand the climate risks posed to our  business, operations, clients and  counterparties. We have enhanced  business processes to incorporate climate  risk monitoring across all risk types. Risk  type reporting is developed within each of  the individual risk domains and is tailored  by the risk managers and executives  within each of these areas in supporting  their independent oversight and review of  business activities."
"The GCER team  produces a quarterly Climate Risk Report  that provides an aggregation of climate  risk metrics and trends, driving awareness  and providing decision-useful information.  The report aggregates metrics across the  risk types, providing insights on overall  exposure; borrowers, sectors and asset  classes requiring additional focus and  vulnerability to physical and transition  risks. Risk controls are then established  through processes, policies, procedures  and governance."
"Examples of how we  manage potential climate risks by risk  type are outlined here.  The table on the next page illustrates the  key industry sectors that we have  identified as having heightened  vulnerability to climate-related risk, based  on sub-sectors of each industry sector  that are rated Moderate, High or Very  High. The table aligns with the  Commercial Credit Exposure by Industry  disclosure in the Company’s Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year  ended December 31, 2023"
"(2023 Form  10-K).  RISK MANAGEMENT Home 61 Credit Risk  CREDIT RISK  MEASUREMENT  INDUSTRY RISK  • Created a methodology to classify the possible financial risks of climate  change at the industry level  • Classifications apply to industries based on the North American Industry  Classification System (NAICS) and to Industry Groups as defined by the  Company  • Based on judgmental considerations for physical and transition climate-  related risks, industries are rated as Very Low, Low, Moderate,"
"High or Very  High  • Ratings use a 2030 time horizon in line with Bank of America's  milestone 2030 Financing Activity Targets  COUNTRY RISK  • Created a framework to assess climate-related risks to all countries in our  banking coverage universe  • Proprietary methodology uses subject matter expertise and a range of third- party indicators covering physical, transition and overall climate risk  • Countries are rated using the same five categories as industry risk ratings - Very Low, Low,"
"Moderate, High or Very High  • Ratings are reviewed at least annually by Enterprise Credit Risk  BORROWER RISK  • Created a Climate and Sustainability Center of Excellence within Enterprise  Credit to steer the ongoing implementation of borrower-level climate and  environmental risk assessments (CERAs)  • Borrower-level CERAs conducted per internal policies governing applicability and  scope which are based on factors such as:  ⁃ The degree of sector/subsector climate risk  ⁃ The amount of"
"committed exposure  ⁃ The LOB managing the relationship  • The CERA score results are generated on a 5 point scale derived from  qualitative and quantitative inputs, where available  • The CERA considers industry physical and transition risk ratings and country  climate risk classifications, where relevant  • The following assessment factors are leveraged to generate a CERA score at  the borrower level  ⁃ Management awareness of climate and company disclosures  ⁃ Physical risk vulnerabilities  ⁃"
"Transition risk vulnerabilities  ⁃ Risk mitigation and strategy  • The CERA score is integrated into the underwriting and credit risk lifecycle  CONSUMER RISK  • Executing a multi-year plan to identify, measure and monitor physical and  transition-related climate risks  • Leveraging physical risk data to develop models to support improved portfolio  and geographic monitoring and scenario exercises  • Current efforts focused on identifying and quantifying key risks, including:  ⁃ Insurance"
"availability, affordability and adequacy for home loans  ⁃ Monitoring Electric Vehicle originations, credit metrics and industry trends  for the Consumer Vehicle Lending Business  • A view of the metrics is also available for Merrill and Private Banks  • In target state, relevant metrics will be embedded in ongoing business  monitoring routines across all products  Committed Commercial Credit Exposure by Industry Sectors rated Moderate, High or Very High     Industry sector Total Committed"
"Commercial Credit $  Exposure  % of total $ Exposure  Asset managers and funds $169,318 13.9%  Real estate $100,269 8.3%  Capital goods $97,044 8.0%  Materials $55,296 4.6%  Retailing $54,523 4.5%  Food, beverage and tobacco $49,426 4.1%  Consumer services $49,105 4.0%  Utilities $39,481 3.3%  Energy $36,996 3.0%  Transportation $36,267 3.0%  Global commercial banks $25,684 2.1%  Consumer durables and apparel $20,732 1.7%  Insurance $19,322 1.6%  Automobiles and components $16,459 1.4%  Subtotal"
"for sectors listed above $769,922 63.4%  Total commercial credit exposure  (source: 2023 Form 10-K)  $1,214,112  $ in M as of 12/31/2023  Note: Commercial credit exposure U.S. dollar amounts sourced from the 2023 Form 10-K and include U.S. small business commercial exposure. Totals and subtotals may not  reconcile exactly due to rounding.  Market Risk  Climate-related impacts to market risk are measured and monitored at the issuer  and portfolio level. Daily reporting has been deployed, whereby"
"market risk  sensitivities and price impacts are aggregated by sector and geographies across  various asset classes including commodities, fixed income and equities, to identify  and monitor climate-sensitive concentrations. This leverages both industry and  country climate risk classifications described in the Credit Risk section above.  Where applicable, country climate risk classifications are used to aggregate risk  sensitivities for rates, foreign exchange and sovereign trading instruments"
"into  climate-sensitive exposures.  Stress tests are also used to understand the impact of climate risks on trading  portfolios, with a particular focus on identifying concentrations of risk within a  portfolio, including monitoring of results within a monthly dashboard. Metrics  continue to be developed to take advantage of improved industry data and  modeling for the measurement of both transition and physical risks.  RISK MANAGEMENT Home 62  Liquidity Risk  Risk assessments are conducted to"
"analyze client behavior before, during and  immediately following physical climate events. These assessments provide  benchmarks for sensitivity and scenario analysis, help to identify the transmission  channel mechanisms by which climate risk drivers affect liquidity and identify the  specific capabilities needed to better analyze how the Company’s liquidity risk  profile changes in a climate stress event.  Compliance and Operational Risk  The Company regularly assesses the operational and"
"compliance risks of climate  change across the enterprise, which have been aligned to our processes. A  dedicated Climate Change coverage team executes this assessment by reviewing  inherent risk, the control environment and residual risk based on independent  coverage activities including compliance monitoring, tracking of issue trends,  operational loss analysis, risk assessments and process management. We evaluate  compliance with incoming regulations for managing and disclosing climate-"
"related  risks as shown in the chart below.  The climate regulatory landscape continues to evolve  Globally, regulators have published prudential guidelines for managing climate- related risks as well as requirements for disclosing climate risk data and  information on how this risk is being managed.  Whether and how these regulations apply to Bank of America and our  subsidiaries varies across jurisdictions.  Bank of America compliance teams source new and changed laws, rules,  regulations and"
"regulatory guidance through multiple channels and assess the  applicability and impact of those changes to the Company.  Teams across the Company conduct gap assessments and create  implementation plans, as needed, to drive compliance in the required  timeframes.  The Company considers the risks posed by physical climate events and the chronic  impacts of climate change in business continuity and resilience planning.  Reputational and Strategic Risk  LOBs and control functions leverage the"
"Company’s Environmental and Social Risk  Policy Framework (ESRPF), which summarizes policies to provide clarity and  transparency around how we manage environmental and social risks. We assess  potential climate and environmental risks associated with client relationships,  transactions and business decisions more likely to result in reputational risk. Certain  business activities with heightened reputational risk arising from climate or broader  sustainability concerns must go through an"
"enhanced due diligence process and be  escalated to the senior-most risk governance body in the applicable line of business  for decisioning. The Company’s Strategic Plan, which is aligned with the capital,  liquidity and financial planning processes, includes climate-related risks and  opportunities identified by each LOB or control function. Through strategic risk  governance routines, we continuously evaluate changes to the internal and external  environment, including impacts due to climate"
"risk.  Environmental-related Risks  We are beginning to embed additional environmental-related risk management into  our company-wide risk management processes. Similar to climate-related risks,  environmental risks are divided into two major categories, both of which span  across the seven key risk types:  • Physical Risk: Risk to assets, capabilities and valuations arising from  environmental factors (e.g., impacts on biodiversity, water stress, waste  production)  • Transition Risk: Risk of"
"failing to adapt to changing client needs/behaviors or  financial impacts driven by the transition to more sustainable environmental  practices. Risk includes costs of implementing regulatory, technology and  customer preference changes. Also includes changing market equilibriums  and unsustainable environmental practices impacting our client’s operations  or ability to pay or the valuation of issuers. By using nature risk heatmapping  approaches, we are working to identify nature-related risks"
"(a type of  environmental risk) and assess the impacts they may have on our business as  well as how our business activities may be contributing to nature loss. To this  end, we are building out capabilities such as use of the ENCORE model to  assess nature dependencies, impacts, risks and opportunities across SASB  industry sectors to better understand concentrations of various environmental  risks — including biodiversity loss — across our portfolio’s industry  segments, starting with our EMEA"
"portfolio. RISK MANAGEMENT Home 63     Climate Scenario Analysis  To understand and assess the potential impacts of climate-related risks across a range of possible outcomes, we conduct climate scenario analysis (CSA). Evaluating a  range of possible outcomes helps to broaden our understanding of potential financial impacts to inform risk management and may in the future inform business strategy. CSA is an  important tool that helps us understand how various risks and opportunities may manifest,"
"and we continue to explore potential use cases. We have a long record of investing in all  aspects of stress testing, and we are doing the same for CSA. Since our first TCFD report in 2020, we have assessed the potential impact of transition and physical risks on specific  sectors and geographies and explored the impact across multiple portfolios, time horizons and outcomes, as illustrated below45.    Evolution of Climate Scenario Analysis  RISK MANAGEMENT Home 64 2021  Internal CSA  Long term"
"impact of transition and  acute and chronic physical risks on the  commercial and consumer portfolios,  using a static and dynamic balance  sheet. Impact of acute physical perils  on bank owned and leased assets.  Sudden transition impact on the  trading book  2022  ECB Climate  First EU regulatory CSA exercise  explored the impact of a disorderly  transition on European operations  in the short and long term.  Impact of acute drought and  flooding across Europe on  the commercial portfolio."
"2022  Internal CSA  Long term impact of transition  and chronic physical risks on the  commercial portfolio, using a  dynamic balance sheet. Impact of  acute physical perils on business  operations. Sudden transition  impact on the trading book.  2023  FRB Pilot CSA  First US regulatory CSA exercise  explored the impact of an orderly  Net-Zero transition on the  commercial portfolio and two  acute physical risk events on real  estate portfolios.  2023  Internal CSA  Long term impact of an"
"orderly transition  compounded with business cycles on  the commercial portfolios, using a static  and dynamic balance sheet. Impact of  physical perils on bank owned and  leased assets. Sudden transition  impact on the trading book.  2021  2023  We have made  significant progress and  continue to evolve our  capabilities to assess  how climate risks may  impact our portfolios  45 In 2023, Bank of America also participated in the European Banking Authority’s Fit-for-55 climate risk scenario"
"analysis, which was a one-off data collection exercise.  Climate Scenario Analysis Framework  We continue to embed climate-related risks into our existing enterprise-wide scenario analysis framework, which supports overall risk management and business strategy. In the  past year we have been able to leverage this to explore additional potential transition risk and physical risk events. Internally developed scenarios have primarily leveraged the  climate change scenarios published by the Network"
"for Greening the Financial System (NGFS) as the main economic backdrop for the long-term transition and chronic physical  risk scenarios, which were customized to incorporate additional idiosyncratic risks, as well as the IPCC scenario framework for acute physical risk scenarios. The IPCC scenarios  explore how different pathways of GHG concentration in the atmosphere that might occur in the next century impact the frequency and severity of weather events.  RISK MANAGEMENT Home 65 NGFS Climate"
"Scenario Overview*  Transition  Risk  Risks related to  the transition  to a lower-  carbon economy,  which may  entail extensive  policy, legal,  technology or  market changes  Physical Risk  Risks related to the physical impacts of climate change,  driven by extreme weather events, as  well  as chronic longer-term shifts  such as rising  Climate Risk Scenarios Analyzed to Date Scenarios  and time horizons are selected based on the attributes of the  portfolios being analyzed and Risk"
"Identification inventory. The  following scenarios have been analyzed for one or more portfolios  during either internal or regulatory exercises:  Long-term Scenarios  Current  Policies  Assumes that only currently implemented  policies are preserved, leading to high physical  risks and warming of 3°C+  Delayed  Transition  Strong policies introduced in 2030 to limit  warming to 1.6°C. Assumes annual CO2  emissions do not decrease until after 2030  Net Zero  2050  Policies are introduced in 2022"
"which limit  global warming to 1.4°C reaching global net  zero CO2 emissions around 2050  Short-term Scenarios  Assumes a disorderly instantaneous market  shock impacted broadly across industries from  climate policy changes, leveraging the Delayed  Transition NGFS scenario narrative  Extreme weather events (e.g., hurricanes, flooding,  strong thunderstorms) in the United States  EMEA and APAC leveraging IPCC scenarios * Visit the NGFS Climate Scenario Analysis website for additional information"
"regarding the NGFS Climate Scenario Framework and Phase III Scenarios.   Climate Scenario Analysis Capabilities  CSA is a continually evolving area and we have made significant investments in it over the years, including expanding our modeling capabilities, acquiring  more granular and robust data, producing new scenarios and exploring longer term time horizons.  RISK MANAGEMENT Home 66 Data  The quality of CSA is dependent on sufficiently granular and timely  climate data to  properly analyze"
"the impact of climate risks on the Company  Progress - We have continued to expand our inventory of climate data to improve our CSA  results. This has included both enhancing internal practices to capture relevant client climate data  while also seeking data from external data providers where gaps exist.  Challenges - The primary challenges for further developing our measurement and monitoring  approaches include the accessibility, completeness and timeliness of internal and external data,  and"
"the work required to validate that available data, is specifically appropriate for climate risk.  Looking Ahead - We  will continue to identify, evaluate and resolve gaps in data coverage,  further improving the reliability of CSA results.  Models    Climate scenario analysis models must be sufficiently granular to capture  potential pockets of risk over a long-term forecast horizon  Progress - We have developed an internal suite of models with segmentation at both the industry and"
"region/country level and have integrated third-party models into our model ecosystem, where appropriate,  that incorporate climate-specific risk factors (e.g., company emissions, carbon price, physical peril metrics,  etc.) at the counterparty and property level.  Challenges - A fundamental challenge when developing climate models is a lack of relevant historical  experience and data given the unprecedented nature of climate change impact on the economy.  Methodologies require key inputs which"
"are inherently difficult to predict, for example, the ability to pass  through increased costs to customers in a competitive market, changes in customer preferences and a  client’s ability to manage effectively through transition.  Looking Ahead - We continue to expand our modeling capabilities to enhance the capture of potential  pockets of risks so results can be used to inform business strategy.  Scenarios  Exploring a wide range of plausible hypothetical scenarios provides the  Company"
"insight into the impact of climate risks on key portfolios  Progress - We have continued to explore scenarios provided by the NGFS and have customized  scenario forecasts to cover idiosyncratic climate risks. In 2023, we designed customized versions of the  NGFS scenarios to include business cycles to explore the amplifying impact of transition risks in an  already stressed economy. We also continue to develop new and more expansive acute physical risk  scenarios to test impacts of extreme"
"weather events.  Challenges - Scenarios produced by the NGFS and other external providers often lack the industry  and regional granularity and narrative required for effective modeling design and do not consider all  the drivers of climate risk that may impact the economy (e.g., tipping points, mass migration, etc.),  potentially underestimating risk.  Looking Ahead - We will continue to evolve how we select, customize and produce climate  scenarios for each portfolio. We are exploring the new"
"NGFS scenarios and designing scenarios that  look at different risk drivers and compounding effects.  Time Horizons    Assessing climate scenarios over short-, medium- and long-term horizons provides  the Company insight into the impact of physical and transition risk on our portfolios  that may manifest over different time periods  Progress - We have selected forecast time horizons based on the unique attributes of each portfolio as  provided by the lines of business through the risk"
"identification process. Market, Liquidity and Operational Risks  may manifest over shorter time horizons than Credit risks. Our suite of climate models have been developed to  capture risk throughout the relevant time horizon for each portfolio.  Challenges - Predicting how clients will make decisions in the future is inherently challenging and requires  our lines of business to think differently and consider hypothetical long-term scenarios often lacking historical  precedent.  Looking Ahead -"
"\Ne will continue to explore different time horizons to align with ever evolving business  and regulatory objectives.   In our mission to understand how climate-related financial risks may impact our  clients and business activities, we have faced both conceptual and practical  challenges. Generally, these are common challenges faced by all firms undertaking  CSA efforts. However, our work to date has helped enable us to better understand  the impacts of climate risks on our portfolios and"
"address applicable regulatory  requirements.  Lessons Learned  Our CSA framework has allowed us to explore various climate change scenarios in  the context of additional and second-order effects. These exercises have shown  that the effects of climate change combined with other stresses can compound to  be more impactful than analyzing climate change risks in isolation. Some sectors,  geographies and processes have been revealed to need additional consideration as  we continue to work through"
"inherent limitations:  • For transition risk, we found that while results in the aggregate were not very  stressful in a Net Zero 2050 scenario, there was differentiation across  sectors, with higher-risk industries generally seeing greater loss rates than  moderate- or low-risk industries. In this scenario, company-level results were  more generically driven by starting financial strength and emissions profile.  • Physical risk scenario analysis has uncovered an increasing vulnerability in our"
"portfolio to the impacts of flooding, wind and wildfire in the Southeast and  Western regions of the United States. Additionally, we found that insurance  can have a large impact on results, and further work is needed to examine the  changing insurance landscape to incorporate variations of insurance  availability, affordability and adequacy into our exercises.   • Leveraging governance and control frameworks in place for traditional stress  testing exercises proved to be a good foundation to"
"build upon for the  additional unique processes for CSA. For example, we incorporated industry  teams’ reviews on key sectors to provide insightful feedback and to help us  contextualize results. Additionally, we augmented our pre-existing stress  testing governance to include the role of subject matter experts specific to  the CSA process, including GCER. We will continue to enhance our existing  processes to be consistent with the level of granularity inherent in CSA.  Continued Enhancement"
"We continue to develop and evolve our CSA capabilities and risk management  processes by working to resolve our data gaps, expand our models and explore  more scenarios to better assess, measure and manage the potential impact of  climate change risks and opportunities on our portfolios.  RISK MANAGEMENT Home 67  METRICS AND TARGETS  Below you will find updates on progress toward our goals and other performance metrics - including  Sustainable Finance; environmental operations, supply chain and"
"financing activity.  The Company has set a wide range of public operational and business targets to manage our environmental impact and finance the transition to a low- carbon economy. To accomplish this transition, we are tracking progress toward our 2030 sustainable finance goal, 2030 Financing Activity Targets and  environmental operations and supply chain goals.  In addition to the historical Performance Data Summary and TCFD reports, we publish sustainability highlights, including"
"environmental data, each year in  our Annual Report to shareholders. We plan to continue reporting on progress toward our targets and goals following the expectations of regulators and  relevant voluntary guidelines as appropriate.  METRICS AND TARGETS 68  Sustainable Finance Metrics and Targets  As discussed in the Strategy section above, we are committed to helping clients transition toward and capitalize on low-carbon  opportunities, which means increasing the flow of capital to clients"
"focused on low-carbon technologies and activities. In April  2021, the Company announced a goal to mobilize and deploy $1 trillion by 2030 to accelerate the environmental transition, as  part of its 10-year $1.5 trillion sustainable finance goal to support the U.N. SDGs.  Bank of America Sustainable Finance Eligibility Criteria  Sustainable finance is the mobilization and deployment of capital to finance the  transition to a low-carbon, more inclusive economy. To confirm the integrity of our"
"$1.5 trillion sustainable finance by 2030 goal, we worked with a third-party  sustainability advisory firm to create an internal taxonomy document, the  Sustainable Finance Taxonomy (Taxonomy), that aligns with the 17 United Nations  Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Taxonomy provides thematic guidance  to determine enterprise-wide activities that align to particular SDGs and is  informed by external market standards such as the E.U. Taxonomy and the Green,  Social and Sustainability"
"Bond Principles which were developed by the International  Capital Markets Association. Utilizing the Taxonomy guideposts, the Company  includes primary market activities consisting of lending, investing, capital markets  and advisory as part of our goal. In addition, understanding that the Taxonomy and  associated products continue to evolve, the Company has instituted a process for  governing the Taxonomy and the associated accounting methodologies that is  managed through the Global"
"Sustainable Finance Data Taxonomy Governance  Council, a sub-council of the RGC.  In scope products and services include primary market activities within the  following categories: including but not limited to sovereign, municipal, corporate,  institutional, CDFI and consumer lending, debt and equity capital markets, M&A  advisory, asset-based debt financing and tax incentive related investments and  distribution, environmental/minority and women-led funds and CDFI investments  (secondary market"
"trading and derivatives are not in scope).  The Focus of our Sustainable Finance Business  Environmental Transition  Address climate change and promote the circular economy including solutions for renewable energy,  energy efficiency, clean transportation, water and sanitation, recycling, sustainable agriculture  and carbon capture and sequestration.  Category Definition  Renewable energy or other low- carbon technologies  Power generation from renewable or low-carbon sources such as wind,"
"solar, geothermal, biomass, oceans, hydropower,  nuclear and hydrogen; development or manufacturing of renewable energy or storage technologies.  Energy efficiency Energy efficiency improvements in residential and commercial buildings, agriculture and industrial processes, utilities and other  public services.  Clean transportation Zero- or low-emissions vehicles, rail or boats, public or mass transportation, sustainable aviation fuel.  Water and sanitation Water conservation, improvements in"
"water supply, quality and infrastructure, desalination, wastewater treatment.  Sustainable food, agriculture and  forestry  GHG emissions reductions, land conservation and food loss and waste reduction through sustainable forestry and agricultural  practices.  Recycling, carbon capture and  sequestration  Recycling and waste management, processes/systems to reduce GHG emission in product supply chains, carbon capture and  storage or reuse, circular economy projects.  METRICS AND TARGETS home 69"
"Inclusive Social Development  Advance community development, affordable housing, healthcare, education,  financial and digital inclusion and access to basic services, as well as promote a Just Transition.  Category Definition  Affordable housing  Development of affordable and workforce housing, provision of affordable homeownership for low- to moderate-income (LMI)  families.  Healthcare  Development of nonprofit, public healthcare facilities, expansion of healthcare for LMI communities and"
"other vulnerable  populations, development of critical medical equipment, research into neglected diseases, affordable or subsidized medicines,  access to fresh food, water and nutrition programs.  Education Public K-12 schools, colleges and universities, educational services for marginalized populations.  Financial inclusion  Support for minority- or women-owned businesses, Minority Depository Institutions (MDIs) and funds; small businesses  located in LMI geographies, nonprofit organizations"
"or Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs) with programs  and activities that support environmental transition or inclusive social development.  Digital inclusion Infrastructure to increase rural or remote connectivity including free or affordable internet or improved transportation.  Economic development  Financing provided to Development Finance Institutions or clients located in World Bank Eligible countries, which are countries  the World Bank lends to based on classifications"
"as International Development Association (IDA), International Bank for  Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) or a blend of the two.  In 2023, the Company mobilized and deployed almost $150 billion in sustainable finance activity, of which $81 billion was for climate and environmental transition. With this, as  of the end of 2023, we have mobilized or deployed $560 billion toward our $1.5 trillion goal, of which over $316 billion went toward the environmental transition. Our financing  has"
"helped drive development and increased deployment of energy efficiency, renewable energy, sustainable transportation, water conservation and sustainable land use. The  LOB breakout of our cumulative $560 billion toward our sustainable finance goal is shown below and on the next page.  Progress Toward our $1.5 trillion Sustainable Finance Goal  Sustainable Finance Categories  FY 2023 ($M) Cumulative Program-to-date ($M)  Environment Social Total Environment Social Total  Global Corporate and"
"Investment Banking: advisory, lending,  leasing and capital markets activity for clients and activity  aligned with the SDGs  60,401 33,716 94,117 236,498 127,829 364,327  Debt Capital Markets: green, social and sustainability bond  underwriting, sustainability-linked bond underwriting and sustainability- linked lending, bond underwriting aligned to SDGs and underwriting  which facilitates capital toward developing economies  22,622 21,385 44,007 84,123 81,709 165,832  Equity Capital Markets:"
"advisory associated with clients aligned to  SDGs, including capital raises for clients in developing economies 4,875 507 5,382 20,603 8,040 28,643 METRICS AND TARGETS home 70  Sustainable Finance Categories FY 2023 ($M) Cumulative Program-to-date ($M) Environment Social Total Environment Social Total Mergers and Acquisitions: advisory associated with clients aligned to  SDGs and advisory to facilitate capital flows to target companies in  developing economies  26,931 3,404 30,335 110,243 19,363"
"129,606  Lending, Leasing and Trade Finance: corporate and sustainability-linked  lending, leasing and trade financing for clients / use-of-proceeds  aligned with SDGs, including in developing economies  5,974 8,419 14,393 21,528 18,717 40,245  Global Markets: capital markets advisory, underwriting and  distribution for municipal and corporate clients and activity aligned  with the SDGs  15,093 18,883 33,975 58,843 56,329 115,172  Asset-based Finance: sustainable asset-based finance  4,245 0"
"4,245 8,634 0 8,634  ABS / MBS: underwriting of green- and social-labelled ABS / MBS 692 138 830 3,361 171 3,531  Public Finance / Municipals: labelled municipal underwriting, municipal  underwriting aligned to SDGs and financing provided to municipals in  support of the SDGs  10,155 18,745 28,900 46,848 56,158 103,006  Regional Banking: lending, leasing, and capital markets activity  aligned with the SDGs 3,753 14,264 18,018 10,912 50,640 61,553  Retail and preferred: Hybrid/EV lending, LMI"
"lending for homeownership and  small business  3,140 5,040 8,180 6,382 18,638 25,020  Business Banking: Lending to clients aligned with the SDGs 40 220 260 138 704 842  Global Commercial Banking: advisory, lending, leasing and capital markets  activity for clients and activity aligned with the SDGs  573 9,005 9,579 4,392 31,299 35,690  Other 187 794 981 2,924 4,739 7,663  Merrill and Private Bank: net inflow/outflow to ESG AUM 1,872 936 2,808 7,522 3,761 11,283  Total 81,306 68,593 149,900"
"316,000 243,298 559,997 46  METRICS AND TARGETS home 71 46 Balance-sheet deployment comprises ~25% ($37 billion) of the $150 billion of 2023 sustainable finance progress and 21% ($119 billion) of the $560 billion of cumulative progress since the inception of our  $1.5 trillion goal in 2021. Differences in the Total columns are due to rounding.  METRICS AND TARGETS home 72 Financing Activity Metrics and Targets  As discussed previously, we have set voluntary 2030  Financing Activity Targets as a"
"part of our Net Zero goal  for the following sectors: auto manufacturing, aviation,  cement, energy, power generation, iron and steel and maritime  shipping. The metrics we use to track progress, sector-specific  decisions and other methodology considerations are outlined  below.  Our metrics include physical unit emissions intensity targets, absolute emissions  and economic intensity following the PCAF methodology, plus other data related  to our target metrics and information regarding our"
"target sector financing  exposure. While we are focused on driving progress toward our sectoral physical  unit emissions intensity targets as a milestone to reaching Net Zero, we also  include other metrics that we monitor. Calculations disclosed herein were subject  to multiple levels of review, including Model Risk Management review, challenge  and third-party limited assurance review and validation (Appendix 3).  Our weighted average physical unit emissions intensity metric (target metric) is"
"derived by taking the client emissions divided by the client physical unit activity for  the year to develop a client-level emissions intensity per unit of production. That  intensity is then multiplied by our committed loan exposure to the client divided by  our total committed loan exposure to the sector. These individual intensities for all  clients in scope are then summed to create a portfolio-wide intensity for the  sector.  While we are using physical unit emissions intensity metrics to"
"manage our Net  Zero alignment and 2030 Financing Activity Targets, we also calculate and disclose  the absolute emissions and economic intensity metrics for the target sectors, plus  thermal coal extraction, as additional indicators of progress toward Net Zero. The  absolute emissions metric has some fundamental challenges with the way it is  calculated which diminishes its ability to be used in decision making. For example,  the PCAF standard for business loans includes the use of enterprise"
"value including  cash (EVIC) as the denominator in determining attribution of client emissions,  which can lead to volatility. This volatility makes it challenging to use an absolute  metric to measure progress toward a short-term target. We continue to partner  with PCAF to explore solutions to these challenges. For more insights into our  approach to target-setting, please see the Strategy section.  Physical Intensity  Absolute Financed Emissions  Economic Intensity  Table 1: Absolute Financed"
"Emissions and Economic Intensities  METRICS AND TARGETS home 73 Sector Absolute Emissions  (thousand tCO2e49)  Utilized  Commercial  Credit Loan  Exposure  (millions $)  % of Total  Utilized  Commercial  Credit Loan  Exposure  Data  Quality  Score48  Economic  Intensity  (tCO2e/million  $)  Sector  Subsector  Boundaries Included  Emission  Scope(s)  Included  201947 2021 2022 2022 2022 2022 2022  Auto Manufacturing  Light-duty passenger  car and truck  manufacturers  1 and 2  1,598 1,01147 1,208"
"1,010 0.14%  2.0  1,196  3.11 1,598 1,01147 1,208 1,010 0.14% 2.0 1,196  Aviation  Commercial aviation  1 — 3,48647 4,152 4,509 0.64% 2.5 921  Cement Cement  manufacturing  1 and 2 — 1,512 1,779 625 0.09% 2.2 2,847  Coal Pure play thermal coal  extraction  1, 2, and 3.11 3,134 1,398 339 16 0.002% 5.0 21,787  Energy Upstream producers,  refiners and  integrated companies  in the oil and gas  industry  1 and 2 2,915 2,384 1,961  5,601 0.79%  2.7  3,670  3.11 23,974 18,339 18,593 5,601 0.79% 3.4"
"3,670  Midstream and  downstream oil and  gas companies  1 and 2 2,926 3,023 2,605 5,813 0.82% 3.6 448  Iron and Steel  Crude steel  production  1 and 2 — 3,682 2,708 1,496 0.210% 2.6 1,810  Power Generation  Power generation 1 3,894 3,909 3,496 9,417 1.34% 2.9 371  47 Updated from previously published value. Please refer to Other Data Challenges on page 80.  48 PCAF provides a scoring mechanism for emissions calculations to evaluate data quality. Under this system, the use of verified client-"
"reported emissions achieves a data quality score of 1, unverified  emissions achieve a score of 2 and estimated emissions range from a score of 3 to 5 based on the information used to conduct estimations. Per the PCAF standard, our data quality scores are based on  utilized commercial credit exposure.  49 tCO2e = metric ton of carbon dioxide equivalent.  Table 2: Physical Intensity, Intensity Targets, and Portfolio Alignment Score  METRICS AND TARGETS home 74 Sector  Target Physical Intensity"
"2022 Exposure  Sector  Subsector Boundaries  Included  Emission  Scope(s)  Included  Reference  Scenario  Baseline  Year  Baseline50  2030 Targets  (As % of  Baseline  Reduction)  2030 Target  (Calculated  Emissions)  2021 2022  Committed  Commercial  Credit Loan  Exposure  (millions $)  % of Total  Committed  Commercial  Credit Loan  Exposure  Auto Manufacturing  Light-duty passenger  car and truck  manufacturers  1, 2 and 3.11 IEA NZE2050 2019  182.8  gCO2e/km 48%  94.9  gCO2e/km  215.0"
"gCO2e/km54  201.6  gCO2e/km  4,634 0.39%  Aviation  Commercial aviation 1 MPP PRU 2021 1007.8 gCO2e/RTK 37%  639  gCO2e/RTK  1007.8  gCO2e/RTK  940.1  gCO2e/RTK  6,813 0.57%  Cement  Cement manufacturing 1 and 2 IEA NZE2050 2021 0.683 tCO2e/tCP 32%  0.467  tCO2e/tCP  0.683  tCO2e/tCP  0.651  tCO2e/tCP  1,108 0.09%  Energy  Upstream producers,  refiners and integrated  companies in the oil  and gas industry  1 and 2  IEA NZE2050 2019  7.5  gCO2e/MJ  45%  4.1  gCO2e/MJ  7.0  gCO2e/MJ52  6.5"
"gCO2e/MJ  $17,92251 1.49%51  3.11 IEA NZE2050 2019  60.6  gCO2/MJ  29%  43.1  gCO2/MJ  60.5  gCO2/MJ  59.7  gCO2/MJ $17,92251 1.49%51  Iron and Steel  Crude steel production 1 and 2 IEA NZE2050 2021  1.75 tCO2e/t crude  steel  27%  1.28 tCO2e/t  crude steel  1.75  tCO2e/t crude  steel  1.77  tCO2e/t crude  steel  3,613 0.30%  Power  Generation Power generation 1 IEA NZE2050 2019  336.4  kgCO2/MWh 70%  100.9  kgCO2/MWh  362.0  kgCO2/MWh  322.2  kgCO2/MWh  24,857 2.07%  Sector Portfolio Alignment"
"Score % 2022 Exposure Data Quality  Score53  Sector  Subsector Boundaries  Included  Emission Scope(s)  Included  Reference Scenario 2021 2022  Committed Commercial Credit  Loan Exposure (millions $)  % of Total  Committed Commercial  Loan Exposure  2022  Maritime  Shipping Vessel-level commercial  shipping  Scope 1 CO2  Poseidon Principles via  2018 Initial IMO GHG  Strategy -3.31 -0.47 3,624 0.30% 2.0  50 gCO2e/km or /MJ or /RTK or /MWh = grams carbon dioxide equivalent per kilometer or per"
"megajoule or per revenue ton kilometer or per megawatt hour; tCO2e/tCP or /t crude steel = metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent per metric ton  cementitious product or per metric ton crude steel.  51The committed exposure to the energy sector published in the 2023 TCFD report included exposure to other energy categories not included in the target boundary. The committed energy exposure value shown here has been updated to reflect  only financing to upstream producers, refiners and integrated"
"companies in the oil and gas industry, aligning with the boundary for our intensity metrics.  52 Updated from previously published value. Please refer to Other Data Challenges on page 80.  53 Please refer to Other Data Challenges on page 80. PCAF provides a scoring mechanism for emissions calculations to evaluate data quality. Under this system, the use of verified client-reported emissions achieves a data quality score of 1,  unverified emissions achieve a score of 2 and estimated emissions"
"range from a score of 3 to 5 based on the information used to conduct estimations. Per the PCAF standard, our data quality scores are based on utilized commercial credit  exposure.  METRICS AND TARGETS home 75 Sector Performance Our first set of targets in the auto manufacturing, energy and power generation  sectors were set in April of 2022. We then set aviation and cement sector targets in  2023, and iron and steel sector and maritime shipping sector targets in April of  2024. In this"
"document, we are disclosing 2022 weighted average physical unit  emissions intensities due to latency inherent in emissions data. As such, the results  discussed below can be attributed to changes in client intensities driven by client  actions and industry developments, along with a shift in our client portfolio mix within  sectors. This is not an exhaustive list and there are other drivers impacting physical  intensity performance. Informed by the latest science, we continue to engage with our"
"clients to understand and support their emissions reduction and transition-related  activities. See Understanding Client Transitions starting on page 27 and Support and  Enable Clients to Achieve Net Zero before 2050 on page 31 to learn more about our  commitment to supporting our clients and meeting our 2030 Financing Activity  Targets. Auto Manufacturing The 2022 emissions intensity for our auto manufacturing portfolio increased  by 10% compared to our 2019 baseline due to expanded and"
"improved  emissions data and reporting, which increased some clients’ intensities,  thereby increasing our overall physical unit emissions intensity54. Additionally, global  supply chain issues created by the COVID-19 pandemic meant that even as the global  economy was recovering, many auto manufacturers could not return to their normal  levels of production, resulting in some lower sales numbers. These were some of the  main factors that impacted the overall weighted average physical unit"
"emissions  intensity across our loan portfolio in 2022. Aviation The 2022 emissions intensity for our aviation portfolio declined by 7%  compared to our 2021 baseline largely due to the improvement in production  intensity of more than half of our clients. Our intensity metric is based on our  client’s ability to efficiently meet demand by filling planes with passengers or cargo  (i.e., a full plane is most efficient). The improvement in cargo load factor, and thereby  intensity in 2022, can be"
"attributed in part to continued recovery from the COVID-19  pandemic and an increase in travel. Cement Compared to the 2021 baseline, the physical unit emissions intensity of our  cement portfolio declined by 5% due to improved production intensities for  more than 85% of our clients. Moreover, while the use of alternative fuels in  this sector is still emerging, there is increased use of biomass and non-renewable  waste as fuels in the production process, resulting in a lower emissions product."
"Energy For our Scope 1 and 2 target, there was a 13% decrease in the weighted  average intensity compared to our 2019 baseline, despite impacts from the  global energy crisis triggered by the Ukraine-Russia war. The improvement  is mainly a result of a decline in production intensities for a number of our top clients  who have made decreasing operational emissions intensity a priority. For our Scope 3  target, we saw a decrease in physical unit emissions intensity of 1.5% from our 2019"
"baseline, due to a slight decline in Scope 3 production intensity for some of our  largest clients.   Iron and Steel There was a slight increase of 1% to our 2022 weighted average intensity  compared to our 2021 baseline due to a shift in client portfolio mix. Globally,  steel’s emissions intensity also increased slightly from 2021 to 2022.  Maritime Shipping The 2022 portfolio weighted average alignment score for maritime shipping  of -0.47% decreased from -3.31% in 2021. While not ideal, our"
"portfolio  continues to outperform the Poseidon Principles decarbonization trajectory.  The fluctuation was mainly driven by declines in efficiency for some of the vessels  within our portfolio. Vessels travelled fewer total distances during 2022 with less  corresponding declines in total emissions, thereby increasing intensity.    Power Generation Due in part to increased financing to less carbon-intensive clients, along with  clients’ increased adoption of renewable power generation sources,"
"the  physical unit emissions intensity for our power generation portfolio  decreased 4% from our 2019 baseline. Although global renewable electricity  generation reached an all-time high in 2022, the COVID-19 pandemic delayed  renewable energy projects due to lockdown measures and supply chain issues starting  in 2020 and lasting for multiple years.  54 This increased our 2021 intensity as well. These updates were not available in 2019 so the baseline does not reflect these updates.  Sector"
"Details  Auto Manufacturing  The auto manufacturing target includes global light-duty passenger car  and truck manufacturers and was derived from the IEA NZE2050 GHG  emissions pathway for road vehicles. The target covers our client’s  Scopes 1 and 2 CO2e and end use Scope 3 CO2. These end-use CO2 emissions  are the most significant for this sector and are often referred to as tank-to- wheel (or tailpipe) emissions. The GHG emissions intensity target includes the  lifetime emissions of each new"
"vehicle sold within the year. The majority of our  clients report the GHG emissions information needed for our calculations, partly  due to the regulated nature of the sector. Therefore, most of the data was  retrieved directly from client reports. Where reported information was not  available, we used S&P Global Trucost revenue-based factors to estimate GHG  emissions. Scope 3 end-use emissions is estimated using 200,000 kilometers  (km) as the estimated lifetime distance traveled for the new"
"vehicles, as this is  used by the IEA in their analysis55. The auto sector is relatively advanced in GHG  emissions reporting and reduction efforts, with many clients setting their own  reduction targets and transitioning manufacturing to zero emissions vehicles,  such as EVs. Our target metric, grams of GHG emissions per kilometer traveled  (gCO2e/km), aligns with the sector standards and is calculated by weighting the  client’s physical unit emissions intensity based on their portion of"
"committed  loan financing in our auto manufacturing portfolio.  Aviation  The aviation sector target includes commercial passenger and freight  operations (e.g., passenger, belly freight, cargo, scheduled and  nonscheduled air transportation activities). It is derived from the Mission  Possible Partnership Prudent (MPP PRU) emissions pathway for aviation and covers  our clients’ Scope 1 GHG emissions or “tank-to-wake” (TTW) emissions. These  operational emissions include those from fuel"
"combustion during flights, which  represent the majority of emissions for commercial airlines. We chose MPP PRU as  it was developed with insight from the aviation industry and other non- governmental organization stakeholders, including Clean Skies for Tomorrow56; it is  aligned to a 1.5°C pathway by 2050 and provides the detail needed without  requiring adjustments.  In addition, approximately 70 major institutions in the aviation industry including  airlines, equipment manufacturers, fuel"
"producers and airports57 have validated the  model inputs and architecture and endorse the general thrust of the arguments  made. Many clients within the aviation sector report the emissions and physical unit  information necessary to complete our calculations. We leveraged reported  information from MSCI58, S&P Global Trucost or directly from client reports. When  reported emissions information was not available, we used S&P Global Trucost  revenue-based emissions factors based on sectoral GHG"
"emissions/revenue to  estimate client emissions. Additionally, many clients have their own emission  reduction targets and participate in efforts to decarbonize and drive forward the  production of SAF as an important solution for the sector.The target metric uses  physical unit emissions intensity which measures grams of GHG emissions per  revenue ton kilometer (gCO2e/RTK). RTK is a commonly used metric in the industry  and is calculated based on the utilized capacity of an aircraft in"
"passengers and  cargo that generate revenue over a specific time period. RTKs measure the aircraft  efficiency based on how airlines are fulfilling demand (passenger and cargo) by  incorporating the utilization of space available on flights. Commercial passenger  flights carry both passengers and belly cargo. Some passenger airlines may provide  only passenger metrics or passenger and cargo metrics separately in the form of  Revenue Passenger Kilometers (RPK) and cargo RTKs. RPK is similar to"
"RTK in that  it is a utilization metric based on the passenger capacity of an aircraft and does not  include belly cargo capacity. RPKs can be converted to RTKs by assuming a weight  of 100 kilograms per passenger, which is the industry standard used by the Air  Transportation Association (IATA). Passenger metrics converted to RTK can be  added to belly cargo RTKs, if available, to arrive at a total for a client. To arrive at  our target metric, we took the client’s annual physical unit"
"emissions intensity as  described above and weighted it based on their portion of committed loan financing  in our commercial aviation portfolio.   METRICS AND TARGETS home 76 55 Source: IEA data and statistics.  56 The World Economic Forum’s Clean Skies for Tomorrow (CST) initiative, established in 2019, is a coalition across aviation’s value chain working to facilitate the transition to Net Zero flying by mid-century.  57 Source: Mission Possible Partnership “Making Net Zero Aviation Possible”"
"2023 report.  58 Morgan Stanley Capital International.  Cement  The cement target includes cement manufacturing companies and is  derived from the IEA NZE2050 decarbonization pathway for cement  manufacturing. The target includes clients’ Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions,  covering the emissions associated with the manufacturing of cementitious product.  Cementitious product59 is a sum of clinker and mineral components, including  ground limestone, natural and calcined pozzolans, as well as"
"industrial byproducts  such as fly ash and ground-granulated blast-furnace slag. The Global Cement and  Concrete Association (GCCA) is coordinating efforts to decarbonize the cement and  concrete industry to achieve Net Zero by 2050. As a result, many of our clients have  set emission reduction targets and are making efforts to align to the industry  objectives. For our purposes, we retrieve emissions and production information  from MSCI, S&P Global Trucost or directly from client reports. When"
"reported  information is not available, we used S&P Global Trucost revenue-based factors to  estimate GHG emissions. The metric being used for our target is tons of GHG  emissions per ton of cementitious product manufactured (tCO2/t cementitious  product). To arrive at our target metric, we take the client’s physical unit emissions  intensity and weight it based on their portion of committed loan financing in our  cement manufacturing portfolio.   Energy  The energy sector targets include"
"upstream producers, refiners and  integrated companies within the oil and gas industry. Including these  upstream companies allows us to capture the majority of emissions within  the oil and gas sector and aligns with the IEA NZE2050 scenario. Our targets  include Scopes 1 and 2 CO2e emissions and Scope 3 CO2 end use emissions from  combustion of the oil or gas produced or refined per megajoule. We have not  included midstream (transportation) or downstream (retail) oil and gas clients in  these"
"targets as they are not well aligned with the scenario or metric. While not  included in our targets, we have disclosed the relevant absolute financed emissions  associated with these portfolios.We set separate intensity targets for Scopes 1 and  2 and then Scope 3 in order to best apply the different IEA NZE2050 pathways for  the sector and to reflect progress in reducing both operational emissions and end  use emissions. To arrive at a separate target for Scopes 1 and 2, we applied the IEA"
"NZE2050 reduction pathways for methane, flaring and other carbon emissions. For  Scope 3 we applied the intensity reduction pathway for the sector end use  emissions. We feel this best reflects the clients’ efforts to reduce emissions from  existing processes and the necessary transition to other low- and zero-carbon  energy sources. To arrive at the target metrics, we take the clients’ physical unit  emissions intensity and weight it based on their portion of committed loan  financing in the"
"oil and gas portfolio. While some energy clients are reporting  Scopes 1 and 2, we found less reported information for Scope 3 end use emissions.  We also found variation in the GHG reporting approach used, with some clients  using an equity boundary and others applying an operational control boundary.  Therefore, in order to achieve a consistent and harmonized approach for clients  within the target we estimate emissions for Scope 3 end use across the portfolio.  We do so by collecting client"
"production information from public reporting and  applying the appropriate emission factor from the U.N. IPCC. Where production  information was not available, we used client-reported revenue and the appropriate  subsector Scope 3 downstream emissions factor from S&P Global Trucost to  estimate emissions. We continue to evaluate client reporting of Scope 3 emissions  and evaluate our ability to use reported information in future calculations.  Iron and Steel  The iron and steel target includes"
"primary and secondary steel producers  and iron ore mining clients who have steel production within their value  chain. Our target is derived from the IEA NZE2050 decarbonization pathway  for iron and steel production and includes clients’ Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions  related to crude steel production — the most emissions-intensive stage of the  production process. Crude steel is the midstream activity of steel production and  represents the first solid steel product upon solidification of"
"liquid steel prior to  casting. Since the IEA NZE2050 trajectory for iron and steel emissions intensity  includes only Scope 1 emissions, we estimate Scope 2 emissions using data from  the World Energy Outlook, the IEA NZE2050 scenario for the sector’s energy  demand, the expected proportion of energy demand from electricity and the  applicable emissions factors. We retrieve emissions and production information  from either MSCI or S&P Global Trucost, or directly from our clients’ reports and"
"disclosures. While some clients do not disclose emissions, we found it encouraging  that more clients are responding to industry led initiatives and reporting GHG  emissions and production information. As a result, we still need to estimate  emissions for a portion of the portfolio where information is not available by using  S&P Global Trucost revenue-based emissions factors. The metric for our target is  METRICS AND TARGETS home 77 59 Source: World Business Council for Sustainable Development"
"- Cement Sustainability Initiative.  metric tons of GHG emissions per metric ton of crude steel (tCO2e/t crude steel).  To arrive at our target metric, we weight each client’s physical unit emissions  intensity by their portion of committed loan financing in our iron and steel  producing portfolio. For clients without reported production data from which their  emissions intensity could be calculated, we include their emissions in our absolute  metric but exclude them from the sector physical"
"intensity metric. These clients are  therefore excluded from the sector level physical intensity target. Another point of  difference between the absolute and intensity metrics is that our absolute  calculation follows the PCAF methodology and includes additional components of  the iron and steel sector i.e. all iron ore mining, forging, casting and processing, as  well as the crude steel production. As a result, our absolute metric includes more  clients than our physical intensity metric does."
"Maritime Shipping  The maritime shipping sector target includes vessel-level commercial  shipping activities that fall under the purview of the International Maritime  Organization (IMO) (e.g., vessels with a gross tonnage of 5,000 or more).  Each vessel secures a loan or finance lease on our balance sheet. The methodology  covers our clients’ Scope 1 GHG emissions, or “tank-to-wake” emissions, from the  operation of the vessels. Our maritime shipping target methodology is derived from  the"
"Poseidon Principles, which were initially published in 2019 and are the prevailing  methodology used by financial institutions to set decarbonization targets for their  asset-specific shipping portfolios. The Poseidon Principles leverage the 2018 Initial  IMO GHG Strategy (IMO Strategy) due to its provision of asset-level trajectories.  The Rocky Mountain Institute’s Center for Climate Aligned Finance led the  development of the Poseidon Principles utilizing the expertise of sector  stakeholders"
"and financial institutions, which included reviews by sector  participants, stakeholders and nongovernmental organizations prior to publishing.  The Poseidon Principles methodology tracks performance using the vessel’s annual  efficiency ratio (AER), a capacity-based physical unit emissions intensity metric that  is common within the sector. AER is calculated as grams of carbon dioxide divided  by deadweight tonnage times nautical miles traveled during the year (gCO2/  dwt*nm). Each vessel’s AER"
"is compared to a vessel-specific decarbonization  trajectory derived using the IMO Strategy, the Third IMO GHG Study 201460 and the  Fourth IMO GHG Study 2020 to arrive at a vessel-level climate alignment score. The  portfolio weighted average alignment score (in a percentage) is calculated based on  the committed exposure for each vessel. A zero percent score means a company is  aligned with the decarbonization pathway. A positive score indicates a portfolio is  not aligned with and falling"
"behind the decarbonization trajectory; and a negative  score indicates a favorable outcome: accelerated decarbonization relative to the  pathway.We have engaged Maritime Strategies International (MSI) to provide  vessel-level emissions, distance traveled and vessel characteristics. MSI’s database  of vessel characteristics, such as type and capacity, is compiled and verified using a  wide range of industry sources. MSI has provided leading independent market  insight and business advisory"
"services to the international shipping sector for over  35 years. The IMO and the Poseidon Principles have committed to changes to both  the decarbonization trajectories and methodologies. The IMO adopted an updated  decarbonization strategy in 2023 which includes more aggressive decarbonization  goals and increased emissions coverage. The Poseidon Principles have committed  to adopting this approach and are expected to release an updated methodology  with vessel-level decarbonization"
"trajectories aligned to the 2023 IMO  decarbonization goals in 2024. The Company will continue to monitor updates to  maritime shipping decarbonization guidance and may consider adjustments to our  approach in the future.  60 Since 2000, IMO has commissioned studies that provide a global reference in estimating GHG emissions from international shipping. These studies are prepared by research organizations across the world under  the oversight of a panel of Member Governments and the IMO"
"Secretariat. Power Generation  The power generation target includes the Scope 1 CO2 emissions from  clients’ generating power as these emissions are the most relevant for the  sector and align to the scenario. Clients included in the target boundary  generally align to the classification of utilities with a few exceptions. We have  excluded water, sewage, steam and air conditioning utilities and have included  municipal power utilities. As with other sectors, power generation is regulated and"
"therefore widely reported. This reported generation data (often available by fuel  source and/or asset) and other resources are used by Environmental Resources  Management (ERM), a third-party supplier, to allocate electricity generation and  associated emissions to clients based on their equity ownership in power  generating facilities. The target was derived from the IEA NZE2050 emissions  pathway for power generation. The physical unit emissions intensity metric is  aligned to the scenario"
"and is widely used and reported within the sector to show  the emissions per megawatt hour of generation. This metric best reflects the  expected increase in generation as the economy moves to electrification and the  transition to zero-carbon electricity. To arrive at our target metric, we take the  client’s carbon intensity and weight it based on their portion of committed loan  financing within the portfolio. As noted above, our target currently includes only  METRICS AND TARGETS home 78"
"commercial credit lending. We intend to include our tax equity investments in this  portfolio within the next few years and expect this to have a positive impact on our  physical intensity emissions reduction target. As one of the leaders in renewable  energy tax equity financing in wind and solar in the U.S., we believe this sector  represents both a business and decarbonization opportunity. We are committed to  investing in renewable energy solutions and will look to participate in a policy"
"environment that encourages greater investment. Methodology and Data Sources  The PCAF Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard for Financial  Institutions was originally released in November 2020 and updated in  2022. We have participated in the various workstreams to develop asset  class methodologies since 2020. We have implemented this standard to quantify  the share of absolute GHG emissions generated by our clients that can be  attributable to us due to our financing relationship with"
"them. This is often called  absolute financed emissions when referring to a lending portfolio. To calculate  these emissions for each client, we divided our on-balance sheet utilized exposure  to the client by the client EVIC. This calculation provides us with an attribution  factor to apply to the client’s relevant Scopes 1, 2 and 3 emissions to measure our  absolute financed emissions from that client. We have applied this standard to our  target sectors within our commercial credit lending"
"portfolio (business loans).  Calculating financing activity emissions demands significant allocation of analytics,  data, technology and modeling resources. As part of our commitment to develop  decision-useful metrics, we have built and continue to enhance an internal  technology system to, among other things: collect and house client emissions data,  estimate client emissions where not available, calculate client physical unit  emissions intensity and quantify our absolute financed emissions."
"Where possible,  we prioritize client-reported emissions data to conduct these calculations and  monitor client progress over time. Bank of America’s Global Environmental Group  worked with our LOBs and Global Risk Analytics (GRA)61 teams to develop a process  that follows relevant industry best practice to measure our financing activity  emissions.  The initial step in calculating financing activity emissions is to gather data on our  clients’ emissions. However, clients vary widely in their"
"disclosure of emissions, and  even when reported, data is often not verified by a third party. Additionally, there is  no one data source, or even group of data sources, that adequately and consistently  covers our needs for client emissions and production information across the target  sectors.  We obtained historic reported emissions and production data for some clients from  their public reports and leveraged certain third-party suppliers.Emissions data are  sourced from:  • Reported client"
"emissions as sourced through S&P Global Trucost, MSCI or  ERM.  • Reported client or site emissions from publicly available databases (such as  the EPA16 or CDP) and/or company disclosures.  • S&P Global Trucost or ERM estimations based on reported company data or  their proprietary estimation model.  Additionally, financial information such as client equity and debt, EVIC62, revenue,  total assets and production information are derived/sourced from suppliers and  manually sourced client reports"
"either publicly disclosed or provided to the  Company. Where financial information is not available for clients, we have applied  an industry average emissions intensity factor (as available through the PCAF  emissions factor database), mapped to the Company’s primary North American  Industry Classification System (NAICS) code, to the available loan information for  the client. From a data and technology perspective, calculating emissions associated  with financing activities enlists the"
"integration of multiple internal systems housing  exposure and client financial statement details with various pieces of external data,  including client emissions and production information, along with third-party  emissions estimation factors. The complexity of this process only serves to  highlight the critical need for consistent, verified public reporting of emissions and  other climate-related data. For additional information, see public policy coverage  within the Advocating and Engaging"
"Stakeholders section.  METRICS AND TARGETS home 79 61 Global Risk Analytics (GRA) is a subgroup within GRM. GRA is responsible for developing a consistent and coherent set of models and analytical tools for effective risk and capital measurement, management  and reporting across Bank of America. In addition to model development, GRA conducts model implementation, data management, model execution and analysis, forecast administration and model performance  monitoring. The team drives innovation,"
"process improvement and automation across all of these activities.  62 From internal sources or MSCI.  Other Data Challenges  In addition to difficulties related to the gathering and quality of data, the timing of  emissions data availability also presents a challenge due to an inherent lag in public  GHG accounting and reporting by clients. To align the time periods of information,  the financing activity emissions calculations use the loan information, with reported  or estimated emissions"
"based on reported revenues, all from the same year. Where  client emissions information was not available for the same year as loan  information, we used the best available emissions information. However, to provide  consistent year-over-year comparison, we are disclosing 2022 calculations, as 2023  emissions and production information is not yet available. This type of data lag is  common for emissions associated with financing activity emissions calculations and  reporting.  Estimating"
"financing activity emissions is an evolving landscape, requiring the use  of assumptions and data with varying levels of quality. We expect that there will  continue to be meaningful improvements to data capture, data sourcing and  estimation methodologies over time. Given these circumstances and consistent  with industry trends, there can be volatility in our sectoral emissions estimates  unrelated to actual sectoral emissions performance. As an example, we use best  available emissions and"
"production information for our estimates, meaning we take  the most recently reported information and if it is not reported, we estimate the  emissions (see sector specific sections above for additional details). If companies  who previously did not report emissions or production information begin to report  such for prior periods, it can impact our estimates and may potentially result in  restatements of historical results. We expect the potential of this to increase as  more regulations are"
"adopted and more companies begin to report emissions data.  To align with industry guidance, we developed internal guidelines and governance  related to restating prior metrics and baselines. We follow these guidelines in  determining when to restate those metrics and baselines, in an effort to improve  the accuracy of our financing activity emissions estimates. Following these  guidelines, we have restated certain metrics, shown in Table 1 and Table 2 above,  including as a result of improved"
"data availability, internal model enhancements.  These restated metrics followed our governance process, which included reviews by  the ESG Disclosure Council and the RGC. METRICS AND TARGETS home 80  Environmental Operations and Supply Chain Metrics Performance  The tables below presents Bank of America’s GHG emissions data for 2010 (the baseline) as well as for the three most current years of data, covering Scopes 1, 2 and 3  emissions. Our inventory uses the methodology established by the GHG"
"Protocol and guidance from the U.S. EPA. All of the environmental metrics we disclose in the following  pages undergo internal review, controls and governance, and several undergo third-party verification each year (see Appendix 2).  METRICS AND TARGETS home 81 GHG Emissions Units 2010 (baseline) 2021 2022 2023  Scope 1 and Location-Based Scope 2 Emissions  Scope 1 Direct Emissions Metric tons CO2e 106,870 57,076 66,775 68,050  Location-Based Scope 2 Indirect Emissions Metric tons CO2e 1,678,547"
"601,906 634,510 610,013  Total Scope 1 and Location-Based Scope 2 Emissions Metric tons CO2e 1,785,417 658,982 701,285 678,063  Reduction in Total Scope 1 and Location-Based Scope 2 Emissions Percent decrease from base  Not applicable 63% 61% 62%  Scope 1 and Market-Based Scope 2 Emissions  Scope 1 Direct Emissions Metric tons CO2e 106,870 57,076 66,775 68,050  Market-Based Scope 2 Indirect Emissions Metric tons CO2e 1,644,068 13,886 17,794 17,736  Total Gross Scope 1 and Market-Based Scope 2"
"Emissions Metric tons CO2e 1,750,939 70,963 84,569 85,786  Carbon Credits Retired63 Metric tons CO2e 0 70,963 84,569 85,786  Total Net Scope 1 and Market-Based Scope 2 Emissions Metric tons CO2e 1,750,939 0 0 0  Reduction in Total Net Scope 1 and Market-Based Scope 2 Emissions Percent decrease from base  Not applicable 100% 100% 100%  Scope 3 Indirect Emissions  Category 1 - Purchased Goods and Services64 Metric tons CO2e Not available 1,153,411 1,571,077 1,722,654  Category 2 - Capital Goods64"
"Metric tons CO2e Not available 52,236 47,621 48,570  Category 3 - Fuel and Energy-Related Activities65 Metric tons CO2e 341,783 158,213 164,599 168,018  Category 4 - Upstream Transportation and Distribution66 Metric tons CO2e 243,881 167,033 176,322 152,752  Category 5 - Waste (Traditional Disposal)67 Metric tons CO2e Not available 11,757 18,826 18,406  Category 6 - Business Travel68 Metric tons CO2e 189,977 18,715 82,583 92,818 - Business Travel Carbon Credits Retired Metric tons CO2e 0 18,823"
"80,172 92,819 - Total Net Scope 3 Business Travel Emissions Metric tons CO2e 189,977 0 2,411 0  Category 7 - Employee Commuting Metric tons CO2e 675,193 144,625 250,783 355,974  Category 8 - Upstream Leased Assets Metric tons CO2e Not relevant Not Relevant Not Relevant Not Relevant  Category 9 - Downstream Transportation and Distribution Metric tons CO2e Not available 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000  Category 10 - Processing of Sold Products Metric tons CO2e Not relevant Not Relevant Not Relevant"
"Not Relevant  Category 11 - Use of Sold Products Metric tons CO2e Not available 3,000 2,000 2,000  Category 12 - End of Life Treatment of Sold Products Metric tons CO2e Not available 9,000 11,000 10,000  Category 13 - Downstream Leased Assets Metric tons CO2e Not relevant Not Relevant Not Relevant Not Relevant  Category 14 - Franchises Metric tons CO2e Not relevant Not Relevant Not Relevant Not Relevant  Category 15 - Investments69 Metric tons CO2e See Financed Emissions portion of this Metrics"
"and Targets section  63 In 2023, retired carbon credits were equivalent to 13% of the total Scope 1 and location-based Scope 2 emissions. This can be calculated by dividing the number of carbon credits retired (85,786 metric tons CO2e) by  the total Scope 1 and location-based Scope 2 emissions (678,063 metric tons CO2e). Carbon credit retirements are subtracted from gross Scope 1 and market-based Scope 2 emissions, resulting in net Scope 1 and  market-based Scope 2 emissions of zero. Numbers may"
"not sum exactly due to rounding.  64 Prior year values updated in 2023 due to using additional supplier-specific data in calculations, and a change in methodology regarding paper/print and payment network spend  65 Prior year values updated in 2023 due to change in methodology of emission factor sources.  66 Prior year values updated in 2023 due to data collection error and change in methodology.  67 Prior year values updated in 2023 due to data collection error.  68 Prior year values updated in"
"2023 due to change in methodology of incorporating more airline-specific emissions reports.  69 Relevant financed emissions figures are detailed previously in the Financing Activity Metrics section.  METHODOLOGY  We follow the World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard to  calculate Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. We use an operational control approach to define our boundary. The"
"base year for emissions reductions is 2010; the rationale for choosing 2010 as the base  year is that 2010 is the earliest year with comprehensive data. Scope 1 and 2 calculations are based on site-specific data for fuel consumed and utilities purchased, applying published emissions  factors and global warming potentials (GWPs). Scope 3 calculations are based on data for the relevant activity, applying published emissions factors and GWPs. Where actual data is not available,  estimates are made"
"based on actual data collected in prior years. The gases included in the calculation of Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions are Carbon Dioxide (CO2), Methane (CH4), Nitrous Oxide (N2O),  and Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). Our market-based GHG emissions include the impact of renewable energy certificates (RECs) purchased in the U.S., Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin  (REGOs) purchased in the U.K., Guarantees of Origin (GOs) purchased in Spain and Ireland, J-Credits and Non-Fossil Certificates (NFCs)"
"purchased for Japan, PowerPlus purchased for India, and  International RECs (I-RECs). All U.S. RECs purchased by Bank of America are Green-e certified. Emissions reflect supplier-specific emission rates where available, all of which comply with Scope 2  Guidance criteria. Emissions reflect residual mix factors for European facilities. Residual mix factors are not currently available for facilities outside of Europe. Location-based emission factors are  used to quantify electricity-related Scope"
"3 emissions. Emissions are recalculated back to the base year when a change to a prior inventory would result in a change in emissions of 0.5% or  greater. Therefore, prior year values shown in the current year of this document may not match the values published in prior reports. .  METRICS AND TARGETS home 82 GHG Emissions by Region Units  2023 Gross Location-Based Emissions 2023 Gross Market-Based Emissions  Scope  1 direct  emissions  Scope 2  indirect  emissions  Total  Scope 1  and  Scope 2"
"emissions  Scope  1 direct  emissions  Scope 2  indirect  emissions  Total  Scope 1  and  Scope 2  emissions  U.S. and Canada Metric tons CO2e 64,091 510,430 574,521 64,091 4,842 68,934  Asia Pacific Metric tons CO2e 598 78,223 78,821 598 12,246 12,844  Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) Metric tons CO2e 3,298 19,979 23,277 3,298 593 3,891  Latin America Metric tons CO2e 62 1,381 1,443 62 55 117  GHG Emissions by Country  United States Metric tons CO2e 63,978 510,311 574,289 63,978 4,842"
"68,821  India Metric tons CO2e 267 48,280 48,547 267 374 641  United Kingdom Metric tons CO2e 2,303 16,777 19,080 2,303 0 2,303  China Metric tons CO2e 139 9,905 10,044 139 208 347  Singapore Metric tons CO2e 13 7,129 7,143 13 7,129 7,143  Japan Metric tons CO2e 62 5,777 5,839 62 1 62  Australia Metric tons CO2e 1 1,994 1,995 1 1,060 1,061  South Korea Metric tons CO2e 66 1,769 1,834 66 1,769 1,834  Taiwan Metric tons CO2e 18 1,685 1,703 18 1,685 1,703  Ireland Metric tons CO2e 553 729 1,281 553"
"0 553  Rest of World Metric tons CO2e 651 5,658 6,309 651 669 1,320  METRICS AND TARGETS home 83 Carbon Credit Reporting Units 2021 2022 2023  Total carbon credits retired  Total carbon credits retired Metric tons CO2e 89,786 164,741 178,605  Carbon credits retired by type of credit  Avoidance carbon credits retired Metric tons CO2e 53,786 94,140 100,806  Removal carbon credits retired Metric tons CO2e 36,000 70,601 77,799  Total carbon credits retired Metric tons CO2e 89,786 164,741 178,605"
"Carbon credits retired by scope applied to  Scope 1 and 2 Metric tons CO2e 70,963 84,569 85,786  Scope 3 Business Travel Metric tons CO2e 18,823 80,172 92,819  Total carbon credits retired Metric tons CO2e 89,786 164,741 178,605  METHODOLOGY  Credits are sourced from a variety of projects: Uberlandia I and II Landfill Gas Project in Brazil, Bondhu Chula Cookstoves and Gas Distribution Leak Reduction in Bangladesh, Cumare Carbon  Project in Colombia, Green Bricks for Residential and Commercial"
"Buildings in India, Safe Drinking Water in Mozambique and Northern Kenya Rangelands. Table represents sum of all carbon credits  retired per year, which addresses Scope 1, market-based Scope 2 and Scope 3 business travel emissions.  Facilities Units 2010  (baseline) 2021 2022 2023  LEED® (or comparable) certifications  Net square feet 12,537,553 17,882,033 18,398,417 21,157,019  Percent of total  square footage  10% 25% 26% 32%  Land use Units 2010  (baseline) 2021 2022 2023  Land use and"
"ecological sensitivity – U.S.  Sites that  intersected with  areas protected for  biodiversity  Not available 10 13 13  Area of buildings  (square meters)  Not available 7,120 7,500 7,500  METHODOLOGY  For the WEF IBC - land use and ecological sensitivity metric, Bank of America only includes U.S. sites in this analysis as U.S. sites make up the majority of Bank of America's real estate footprint.  All U.S. sites were overlaid on the U.S. Geological Survey's Protected Areas Database (PADUS) to"
"understand intersection with protected areas. The types of buildings that intersect with protected  areas are owned and leased office buildings, banking centers, warehouses and ATMs.  METRICS AND TARGETS home 84 Water Units 2010  (baseline) 2021 2022 2023  Total water withdrawals  U.S. gallons (B) 3.54 1.67 1.76 1.61  Megaliters 13,410 6,325 6,672 6,089  Total potable water withdrawals  U.S. gallons (B) 3.52 1.64 1.72 1.57  Megaliters 13,331 6,223 6,498 5,952  Reduction in potable water"
"withdrawals % decrease from base year Not applicable  53% 51% 55%  Water withdrawals by source – Third-Party (municipal)  Megaliters 13,410 6,243 6,536 6,001  % withdrawals 100% 98.7% 98.0% 98.6%  Water withdrawals by source – Surface Water (rainwater)  Megaliters Not available 83 136 88  % withdrawals Not available 1.3% 2.0% 1.4%  Total water consumption  U.S. gallons (B) 0.57 0.39 0.40 0.36  Megaliters 2,149 1,492 1,518 1,379  Estimated annual savings from water reduction projects U.S."
"thousand gallons (K) Not available 8,455 2,813 33,572  Third-party withdrawals and consumption from regions with high  or extremely high baseline water stress  Megaliters withdrawals Not available  2,571 2,718 3,299  Megaliters consumption Not available 680 719 778  % withdrawals  Not available 41% 42% 55%  % consumption Not available 46% 47% 56%  METHODOLOGY  Data for water withdrawals are sourced from utility bills where possible. Where utility bills are not available (such as in a leased"
"property), we estimate based on internal estimation intensities by  building type. These estimation intensities are calculated annually based on actual data. We use the same boundary in calculating water withdrawals as in our GHG emissions calculations. Water is  withdrawn from municipal sources (except for a small amount of rainwater) and discharged to municipal sewer systems. Water consumption is equal to water used for irrigation. Data for  groundwater and rainwater are sourced from meter"
"readings for the systems in place. Potable water is defined as water treated to levels that meet state and federal standards for consumption.  For Bank of America, this includes all water except gray water used for irrigation, untreated groundwater and reclaimed water. Water values are recalculated back to the base year when a change  to a prior inventory would result in a change in water values of 0.5% or greater. Therefore, prior year values shown in the current year of this document may not"
"match the values published in prior  reports. Baseline water stress is determined according to the World Resources Institute Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas tool.  METRICS AND TARGETS home 85 Waste Units Disposal method 2011  (baseline) 2021 2022 2023  E-waste disposed through certified  suppliers70  Percent  certified - 68% 100% 99.61% 99.98%  Non-hazardous waste (office,  confidential, construction and  demolition, electronic and other)70  Metric tons  Landfill and  incineration  60,370 21,957"
"35,315 29,249  Metric tons  Recycling,  compost and  remarketing  68,217 44,818 51,524 56,616  Diversion rate - 53% 67% 59% 66%  Hazardous waste  Metric tons  Landfill and  incineration  3 0.5 0.005 0  Metric tons  Recycling,  reuse and  salvage  334 507 884 1,176  Diversion rate - 99.2% 99.9% 99.9% 100%  Construction and demolition waste  Metric tons  Landfill and  incineration  12,523 5,478 6,393 3,745  Metric tons  Recycling,  reuse and  salvage  18,046 14,654 18,409 11,817  Diversion rate -"
"59% 73% 74% 76%  Total waste71  Metric tons  Landfill and  incineration  60,373 21,957 35,315 29,249  Metric tons  Recycling and  other diversion  68,551 45,325 52,408 57,792  Metric tons Total waste 128,924 67,282 87,723 87,040  Waste to landfill percent  decrease from base year - Not applicable  64% 42% 52%  Diversion rate - 53% 67% 60% 66%  METHODOLOGY  70 In 2021 all (100%) of e-waste was disposed through certified suppliers. In 2022 and 2023 in one country, a small amount of e-waste was not"
"disposed through a certified supplier. The base year  for waste data is 2011. Data are sourced where possible from suppliers that provide waste removal services. Where weight data are not available (such as in a leased property), we estimate based  on internal intensities by building type which were developed using actual data. We use the same boundary in calculating waste as in our GHG emissions calculations. The waste disposal method  was determined from data provided by the waste suppliers."
"Numbers may not sum exactly due to rounding. Regulated waste is reported on a 1-year lag, so the 2023 waste data includes regulated  waste from 2022. Waste values are recalculated back to the base year when a change to a prior inventory would result in a change in waste values of 0.5% or greater. Therefore, prior year values  shown in the current year of this document may not match the values published in prior reports.  71 Prior year values updated in 2023 due to data collection error.  METRICS"
"AND TARGETS home 86 Renewable material  usage - Paper Units 2010  (baseline) 2021 2022 2023  Total Usage  Metric tons 65,501 26,788 31,734 28,952  Percent decrease from base year Not applicable 59% 52% 56%  Recycle input materials by weight 8% 15% 14% 20%  Certified input materials by weight Not applicable 98.6% 98.7% 98.2%  METHODOLOGY  Paper is purchased from external suppliers. Data are sourced from direct measurements based on invoices from our paper suppliers. Purchased paper includes copy"
"paper, commercial paper, paper  office supplies and janitorial paper. Janitorial paper was included in the goal for the first time in 2021. We have a commitment to the procurement of environmentally and socially sustainable paper  products. Details can be found in our ESRPF.  Supplier engagement Units 2010  (baseline) 2021 2022 2023  Suppliers invited to CDP Supply Chain # of suppliers 89 210 242 354  Response rate to our CDP Supply Chain information requests % responded 84% 93% 92% 87%  Spend"
"with suppliers who report GHG or renewable energy targets  % of previous  year spend  Not available 61% 63% 70%  Spend with suppliers assessed for risks as outlined by our Supplier  Code of Conduct  % of current year  spend  Not available 63% 78% 86%  Transportation Units 2010  (baseline) 2021 2022 2023  Bank of America supported SAF production and use  # of cumulative gallons  (M)  Not available Not available 1.0 3.8  SAF for annual corporate and commercial jet fuel usage % Not available Not"
"available 13% 31%  Sustainable finance investment for the production of SAF $ (B) Not available Not available 0 0.2  METHODOLOGY   In 2022, we announced 2030 sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) goals. These goals are to deploy and mobilize two billion in financing to support the production and use of one billion gallons of SAF  and to utilize 20% SAF across our corporate and commercial jet fuel usage, including 100% of corporate jet usage and a significant portion of commercial jet fuel usage."
"METRICS AND TARGETS home 87 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions from  direct combustion  Units 2010  (baseline) 2021 2022 2023  Sulfur Oxides (SOx) Metric tons 17 1 2 2  Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) Metric tons 44 19 20 19  Carbon Monoxide (CO) Metric tons 56 27 28 26  Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Metric tons 7 2 2 2  Particulate Matter (PM) Metric tons 4 3 3 3  Ozone-depleting substances (R-11, R-12, R-123, R-12B1, R-13B1, R-22  and R-501)  Metric tons  CFC-11e  3 3 2 2  Impact of air"
"pollution $ USD Not available 134,000 143,000 138,000  METHODOLOGY  Data are sourced from the Scope 1 and 2 inventory and records kept through our compliance program. Significant air emissions are calculated based on site-specific data and published emission  factors. We use the same boundary in calculating these air emissions as in our GHG emissions calculations. R-22 is an ozone-depleting substance with a high global warming potential. Bank of  America fully eliminates R-22 from our operations"
"when we decommission equipment instead of re-selling to encourage the complete phase out of R-22 from the market. R-22 is an ozone- depleting substance with a high global warming potential. The impact of air pollution (SOx, NOx, CO, VOCs and PM) is calculated using social cost factors of each pollutant as reported in the World  Resources Institute’s Transport Emissions and Social Cost Assessment Tool v 1.0.  Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption Units 2010  (baseline) 2021 2022 2023"
"Electricity Gigajoules 11,889,018 6,348,311 6,487,212 6,382,669  Other indirect (purchased steam and  cooling)  Gigajoules 200,907 151,197 135,465 123,028  Natural gas Gigajoules 1,488,556 758,595 762,855 721,683  Other direct (fuel oil, jet fuel, gasoline,  diesel fuel, propane)  Gigajoules 337,952 165,529 350,139 377,115  Total energy Gigajoules 13,916,433 7,423,632 7,735,671 7,604,496  Reduction in total energy  % decrease  from base year  Not applicable 47% 44% 45%  METHODOLOGY  Data are"
"sourced from utility bills where possible. Where utility bills are not available (such as in some leased properties), we estimate based on internal estimation intensities by building type.  These estimation intensities are calculated annually based on actual data. We use the same boundary in calculating energy consumption as in our GHG emissions calculations. See the  “REDUCTIONS IN GHG EMISSIONS AND ENERGY CONSUMPTION” table for gigajoules saved by energy reduction initiatives.  METRICS AND"
"TARGETS home 88 Electricity from renewable sources Units 2010  (baseline) 2021 2022 2023  Electricity consumption MWh 3,302,505 1,763,420 1,802,003 1,772,964  Total renewable electricity procured MWh 39,598 1,780,488 1,820,673 1,850,251  % of electricity from renewable sources % of electricity 1% 101% 101% 104%  METHODOLOGY  Bank of America adheres to certification, geography, technology and project age standards when purchasing the following Energy Attribute Certificates (EACs): Renewable"
"Energy Certificates  (RECs), Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin (REGOs), Guarantees of Origin (GOs), J-Credits, Non-Fossil Certificates (NFCs), PowerPlus and International RECs (I-RECS).  Reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and energy  consumption Units 2010  (baseline) 2021 2022 2023  Projected annual emissions savings  from reduction initiatives  Metric tons CO2e Not available 10,994 3,311 5,599  Projected annual savings from energy  efficiency measures  Gigajoules Not available 109,467"
"35,687 62,247  METHODOLOGY  Data are sourced from records kept by Global Real Estate Services, which records each project undertaken and relevant details,including project annual electricity or fuel savings and projected  annual monetary savings. Reductions in GHG emissions and energy consumption is estimated based on projections of project performance.  Climate-related capital expenditure Units 2010  (baseline) 2021 2022 2023  Projected annual monetary investment  on climate-related capital"
"expenditure  $ USD in  thousands  Not available 92,948 80,578 172,222  Indirect energy consumption by fuel mix Units 2010  (baseline) 2021 2022 2023  Coal % of mix 35% 14% 15% 14%  Petroleum % of mix 3% 1% 1% 1%  Natural gas % of mix 30% 46% 46% 47%  Nuclear % of mix 23% 22% 21% 21%  Renewable % of mix 9% 17% 17% 18%  METHODOLOGY  These data represent the mix of primary energy consumed to produce the intermediate energy (electricity, steam, chilled water) used. They primarily represent the mix"
"of grid electricity sources  provided by electricity suppliers, and thus are distinct from the above tracking of electricity from renewable sources, which represent the bank’s proactive purchase and implementation of  renewable electricity.  METRICS AND TARGETS home 89 Indirect energy consumption by primary fuel  source Units 2010  (baseline) 2021 2022 2023  Coal Gigajoules 13,024,897 2,830,605 3,133,178 2,789,250  Petroleum Gigajoules 791,057 112,612 165,970 194,946  Natural gas Gigajoules"
"8,357,102 6,530,861 6,482,397 6,514,037  METHODOLOGY  These data represent total source energy consumed to produce the intermediate energy (electricity, steam, chilled water) used.  Compliance Units 2010  (baseline) 2021 2022 2023  Non-compliance with environmental  regulations  Value of monetary  fines in $ USD  $23,854 $0 $500 $0  Non-monetary  violations  9 2 2 4  Significant releases  # of releases 2 1 5 15  Volume – U.S. gallons  (petroleum products)  3 0 72 8 37  Amount - pounds"
"(refrigerants/  fire suppressants)  0 22 823 3,536  Environmental Spend Units 2010 2021 2022 2023  Total environmental protection spend  Value of spend  ($ USD in M)  Not available $15.8 $19.4 $19.5  METHODOLOGY  Data are sourced from our compliance management system, in which we record all instances of non-compliance with environmental regulations and spills and spend with select third-party  suppliers on environmental protection and compliance.  72 2021 Value updated to zero as it is a"
"refrigerant release and not a spill.  90 Equator Principles (2023 Activity)73 Category A Category B Category C  INFRASTRUCTURE (Total) 1 - - Desalination Plant 1, Chile - - OIL AND GAS (Total) 1 - 1  Liquified Natural Gas (LNG) 1, U.S. - - Renewable Natural Gas (RNG) - - 1, U.S.  POWER (Total) - 21 9  Solar - 21, U.S. 7, U.S.  Battery Energy Storage Systems (BESS) - - 2, U.S.  OTHER: GENERAL MANUFACTURING (Total) - 3 - EV Parts Manufacturing - 3, U.S. - TOTAL PROJECTS (By Category) 2 24 10"
"TOTAL EP PROJECTS 36 - - METHODOLOGY  The Equator Principles provide a framework, when adopted by financial institutions, for determining, assessing and managing environmental and social risk in project finance by establishing minimum  standards for due diligence. The Company was a signatory to the Equator Principles Association from 2004 to 2023. In 2023, 36 projects were financed with consideration of the Equator Principles  framework.  73 In 2024, the Equator Principles Association changed"
"its governance model and organizing structure to become the Equator Principles Limited. Bank of America declined to be signatory to the new Equator  Principles Association. However, per the terms of the Company’s 2023 Signatory agreement with the legacy Equator Principles Association, the Company has reported Projects that reached financial close in 2023  to the Equator Principles and they are listed on the on the Equator Principles website. The Company will not provide any future reporting to"
"or through the Equator Principles. Going forward, we will project finance  transactions using our internal Project Financing Due Diligence Standard, which is in part informed by the Equator Principles framework and report on these transactions through the Company’s annual reporting.  METRICS AND TARGETS home  91 Home Conclusion and Looking Ahead  At Bank of America, we believe that the risks outlined in this document are accompanied by significant opportunity to do more for our  clients and to"
"gain new clients. We adhere to the tenets of Responsible Growth in all we do, and we expect to continue to be a leader in  sustainable finance and the clean energy transition.  Over the last year, we have taken meaningful actions to help make our  beliefs a reality. In 2023, we mobilized and deployed $560 billion in  sustainable finance, as we further progress toward our goal to deploy $1.5  trillion by 2030. We finalized interim 2030 targets under our Net Zero goal while  working directly with"
"clients to advance their own transitions. We built upon our risk  management structures and developed our own Transition Plan, while accelerating  efficiencies in our operations and supply chain.  Looking ahead, we intend to build on these successes. Technology will play a key  role in helping to transition to a decarbonized global economy and the Company will  continue bringing capital to clients that are developing scalable solutions needed to  accelerate that transition. Another imperative is"
"assisting businesses around the  world understand how they can realize their sustainability goals. Our efforts across  our eight lines of business will help us enable those businesses to have the tools  they need to meet their ambitions.  While addressing climate change remains a key priority, our sustainable finance  continues to be deployed to advance progress on a range of critical environmental  and societal issues. The growing recognition of a need to protect and remediate  nature and"
"biodiversity around the world has led many organizations to explore how  they can contribute to a solution. We look forward to working with clients and within  our own business to recognize the risks and opportunities around this critical issue.  To help us remain accountable to our stakeholders, we remain steadfast in our  dedication to transparency and disclosure. As the data and science around the issues  that we prioritize continues to evolve, we believe that we are prepared to adjust our"
"approach to continue the value of our impact. And as disclosure frameworks around  the world evolve to meet the expectations of the moment, we will align our  practices.  We are also mindful that a financial institution, even one with the range of clients  and communities we are privileged to serve in the U.S. and around the world, is a  transmission mechanism for the financial objectives of our clients - individuals and  companies of every size - as shaped by policies in the dozens of countries"
"in which  we operate. We outline throughout this document our views and perspectives,  including how we attempt to inform the policy environment in which we operate. As  opportunities, perspectives, the needs of markets and economies impacted by geo- political events and a host of other factors evolve, we will continue to adjust as we  always do to help deliver positive outcomes.  One matter is certain: our approach to Responsible Growth has helped enable us to  make significant progress toward"
"delivering both profits and purpose. The future  brings opportunity for building a more sustainable world and we will continue to  drive toward that vision while delivering for our clients, teammates, communities  and shareholders.  CONCLUSION  ISSB Recommendations Index  We are beginning to report against the ISSB standard recommendations74. The table below illustrates where we disclose, in this document, key information aligned to ISSB S2  recommendations.  Recommended disclosure Location"
"Additional resources  Governance  Describe the board committee or equivalent governance body responsible for oversight  of climate-related risks and opportunities.  Governance  • Enterprise Governance of Climate-related Risks and  Opportunities  • Board of Directors Oversight  • Management Oversight  2023 Annual Report to shareholders (p.  135)  2024 Proxy Statement (p. 39)  Corporate Governance, ESG and  Sustainability Committee Charter  Describe management's role in the governance processes,"
"controls and procedures  used to monitor, manage and oversee climate-related risks and opportunities.  Governance  • Enterprise Governance of Climate-related Risks and  Opportunities  • Management Oversight  • Enterprise Functional Teams  2023 Annual Report to shareholders (p.  135)  2024 Proxy Statement (p. 39)  Strategy  Describe how climate-related risks and opportunities could reasonably be expected to  affect the entity's prospects, considering physical and transition risk over the short,"
"medium and long term, including how the entity defines short, medium and long term  and how that is linked to their planning horizons for strategic decision-making.  Strategy -  Intro to Strategy (Time Horizons)  Risk Management  • Risk Identification  • Climate Scenario Analysis (CSA)  2023 Annual Report to shareholders (p.  135)  Describe current and anticipated effects of climate-related risks and opportunities on  the entity's business model and value chain, including a description of where"
"the entity's  business model and value chain climate-related risks and opportunities are  concentrated.  Strategy -  Minimize BAC’s Impact on the Environment:  Net Zero before 2050  Risk Management.  • Risk Identification  • Risk Management by Risk Type  2023 Form 10-K (p. 81-82)  2023 Annual Report to shareholders (p.  135)  Describe the effects of climate-related risks and opportunities on the entity's strategy  and decision-making, including information about its climate-related transition"
"plan.  Introduction  Strategy  • Minimize BAC’s Impact on the Environment: Net  Zero before 2050  • Support and Enable Clients to Achieve Net Zero  before 2050  Transition Plan Index  2023 Annual Report to Shareholders (p.  135) ISSB Recommendations Index Home 92 74 The Company acknowledges that it is still working to fully conform to the specific recommendations of the ISSB framework, resulting in partial fulfillment for some recommendations.   Recommended Disclosure Location Additional"
"Resources Strategy Describe the effects of climate-related risks and opportunities on the entity's financial  position, financial performance and cash flows for the reporting period, as well as  anticipated effects over the short, medium and long term, taking into consideration  how climate-related risks and opportunities are included in the entity's financial  planning.  Strategy  • Intro to Strategy (Time Horizons)  • Support and Enable Clients to Achieve Net Zero  before 2050  Risk Management"
"-  Risk Identification  Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities that have affected the entity's  financial position, financial performance and cash flows for the reporting period for  which there is a significant risk of a material adjustment within the next annual  reporting period to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the related  financial statements.  We are currently in the process of assessing this requirement,  and/or developing systems and processes"
"needed to support  a response.  Describe the climate resilience of the entity's strategy and business model to climate- related changes, developments and uncertainties.  Cautionary Information and Forward-Looking Statements  Strategy -  Advocate and Engage Stakeholders  Risk Management  • Climate Scenario Analysis (CSA)  • Risk Management by Risk Type  Metrics and Targets -  Financing Activity Metrics and  Targets  Describe information about how the entity has responded to, and plans to respond"
"to,  climate-related risks and opportunities in its strategy and decision-making, including  how the entity plans to achieve any climate-related targets it has set and any targets it  is required to meet by law or regulation, as well as any climate-related transition plan  the entity has and dependencies on which the entity's transition plan relies. The entity  should include information about how it is resourcing, and plans to resource, such  activities, and describe quantitative and"
"qualitative information about the progress of  plans disclosed in previous reporting periods in accordance with such activities.  Strategy  • Minimize BAC's Impact on the Environment: Net  Zero before 2050  • Support and Enable Clients to Achieve Net Zero  before 2050  Metrics and Targets  Transition Plan Index  2024 Proxy Statement (p. 42)  If an entity determines that it need not provide quantitative information about the  current or anticipated financial effects of a climate-related risk or"
"opportunity, the entity  shall explain why it has not provided quantitative information about those financial  effects and the combined financial effects of that climate-related risk or opportunity  with other climate-risks or opportunities or other factors (if useful).  We are currently in the process of assessing this requirement,  and/or developing systems and processes needed to support  a response. ISSB Recommendations Index Home 93  Recommended disclosure Location Additional resources"
"Strategy Describe how the entity uses climate-related scenario analysis to assess its climate  resilience, including the entity's assessment of its climate resilience as at the reporting  date and how and when the climate-scenario analysis was carried out.  Strategy  • Intro to Strategy (Time Horizons)  • Minimize BAC's Impact on the Environment: Net  Zero before 2050  Risk Management - Climate Scenario Analysis (CSA)  Risk Management  Describe the processes and related policies the entity uses"
"to identify, assess, prioritize  and monitor climate-related risks, including information about whether and how the  entity uses climate-related scenario analysis to inform its identification of climate- related opportunities and the extent to which, and how, the processes for identifying,  assessing, prioritizing and monitoring climate-related risks and opportunities are  integrated into and inform the entity's overall risk management process.  Risk Management 2023 Annual Report to shareholders"
"(p.  135)  2024 Proxy Statement (p. 39)  Environmental and Social Risk Policy  Framework (p. 4-7)  Metrics and Targets  Describe information relevant to the cross-industry metric categories, including GHGs,  the amount and percentage of assets or business activities vulnerable to climate- related physical and transition risks, the amount and percentage of assets or business  activities aligned with climate-related opportunities, the amount of capital expenditure,  financing or investment"
"deployed toward climate-related risks and opportunities,  internal carbon prices and remuneration.  Governance - Performance and Remuneration  Metrics and Targets  • Sustainable Finance Metrics and Targets  • Environmental Operations and Supply Chain Metrics  and Targets  Describe industry-based metrics that are associated with one or more particular  business models, activities or other common features that characterize participation in  an industry.  See Annual Report, Stakeholder Capitalism"
"metrics 2023 Annual Report to shareholders (p.  66-74)  Describe targets set by the entity, and any targets it is required to meet by law or  regulation, to mitigate or adapt to climate-related risks or take advantage of climate- related opportunities, including metrics used by the governance body or management  to measure progress toward these targets.  Metrics and Targets - Financing Activity Metrics and  Targets  Describe the entity's approach to setting and reviewing each target and how it"
"monitors progress against each target.  Strategy -  Minimize BAC's Impact on the Environment:  Net Zero before 2050  Metrics and Targets - Financing Activity Metrics and  Targets ISSB Recommendations Index Home 94  Recommended disclosure Location Additional resources Metrics and Targets Describe the entity's performance against each climate-related target and an analysis  of trends of changes in the entity's performance.  Metrics and Targets  For each GHG target disclosed, describe which GHGs"
"are covered by the target,  whether Scope 1, Scope 2 or Scope 3 GHG emissions are covered by the target,  whether the target is a gross GHG emissions target or net GHG emissions target,  whether the target was derived using a sectoral decarbonization approach and the  entity's planned use of carbon credits to offset GHG emissions to achieve any net GHG  emissions target.  Strategy  • Minimize BAC’s Impact on the Environment: Net  Zero before 2050  • Support and Enable Clients to Achieve Net Zero"
"before 2050  Metrics and Targets  • Financing Activity Metrics and Targets  • Environmental Operations and Supply Chain Metrics  and Targets  2023 Annual Report to shareholders (p.  69)  ISSB Recommendations Index Home 95  GRI Content Index  Bank of America has reported the information cited in this GRI content index for the period January 1 - December 31, 2023 in reference to GRI Standards where available and as  applicable. In this context, our approach to materiality is guided by our"
"commitment to Responsible Growth and doing so in a sustainable manner, which helps us deliver for our  clients and shareholders, and address society’s biggest challenges. We use these principles to evaluate our company’s ESG priorities. See www.bankofamerica.com/  esgmateriality for more details.  Disclosure Response  2-1 Organizational details • Direct Response: Bank of America Corporation  • Certificate of Incorporation  • 2023 Annual Report, Corporate Information, p. 232  • Businesses and"
"Institutions, Connect with our offices around the world  2-2 Entities included in the organization’s  sustainability reporting  • 2023 Annual Report  • Privacy and Security, Bank of America Affiliate Companies  2-3 Reporting period, frequency  and contact point  • Direct Response: Questions regarding the content in this publication should be directed to ESG_Information@bofa.com.  • Title page; p. 1; Cautionary Information p. 3  • Making an Impact, Find Resources  • Annual Reports Webpage  2-4"
"Restatements of information • Direct Response: Restatements are clearly marked throughout our reporting content.  2-5 External assurance • Direct Response: Assurance statements applicable to this publication, which were shared with the RGC and ESG DC, can be found in  the Appendix starting on p. 110. External assurance statements applicable to other reports, including past reports, can be found on the  Report Center.  2-6 Activities, value chain and  other business relationships  • 2023 Annual"
"Report, Executive Summary; p. 80  2-7 Employees • Direct Response: See the 2023 Annual Report, Human Capital Management Update, p. 46-63 for demographic information on our  employees. At this time, the Company does not disclose the regions in which employees (full-time, part-time or non-guaranteed  hourly) operate. However, we do report on hires and turnover by region.  2-8 Workers who are not employees • Omission Statement: The Company does not publicly disclose details on our contractors nor"
"the work they perform.  Reason for Omission: Information Unavailable/Incomplete  2-9 Governance structure and composition • Governance; p. 9-15  • Bank of America investor relations, Corporate governance, management team and directors  • Bank of America investor relations, Corporate governance, Board committee  2-10 Nomination and selection  of the highest governance body  • Direct Response: Our Board of Directors seeks directors whose complementary knowledge, experience and skills provide a"
"broad  range of perspectives and leadership expertise in financial services and other global, highly complex and regulated industries, strategic  planning and business development, business operations, marketing and distribution, technology, cybersecurity, risk management and  financial controls, human capital management, corporate governance, public policy, and other areas important to our company’s  strategy and oversight. Additional information is available in our 2024 Proxy Statement; p."
"8-36  2-11 Chair of the highest  governance body  • Direct Response: Brian T. Moynihan is the Chair of our Board and the Chief Executive Officer of Bank of America. See the 2024  Proxy Statement, Corporate Governance; p. 25-36. GRI Content Index Home 96  Disclosure Response 2-12 Role of the highest governance  body in overseeing the management  of impacts  • Direct Response: The Board approves the Company’s strategy as outlined in the 2024 Proxy Statement, Corporate Governance; p.  25-36 and"
"Shareholder Engagement; p. 37-38. More information specific to the governance of climate-related impacts can be found  in the Governance section of this report starting on p. 9.  2-13 Delegation of responsibility  for managing impacts  • Direct Response: The Board approves the Company’s strategy as outlined in the 2024 Proxy Statement, Corporate Governance; p.  25-36 and Shareholder Engagement; p. 37-38. More information specific to the governance of climate-related impacts can be found  in the"
"Governance section starting on p. 9.  2-14 Role of the highest governance  body in sustainability reporting  • Governance; p. 9-15  • 2024 Proxy Statement, Responsible Growth: Growth that is Sustainable; p. 43  2-15 Conflicts of interest • Direct Response: The Company's Code of Conduct guides all staff and management on conflicts of interest.  • 2024 Code of Conduct, We avoid conflicts of interest; p. 16  • 2024 Proxy Statement, Governance objectives; p. 4  2-16 Communication of critical"
"concerns • 2023 Annual Report, Commitments and Contingencies; p. 189-193  • 2024 Code of Conduct, We honor our Code; p. 10  2-17 Collective knowledge of  the highest governance body  • 2024 Proxy Statement, Director Education; p. 30  2-18 Evaluation of the performance  of the highest governance body  • 2024 Proxy Statement, Board Evaluation; p. 28  2-19 Remuneration policies • 2024 Proxy Statement; p. 53-87  • Working here, Being a great place to work, Recognizing and rewarding performance  2-20"
"Process to determine remuneration • Working here, Being a great place to work, Recognizing and rewarding performance  • 2024 Proxy Statement; p. 53-87  • Direct Response: The Compensation and Human Capital Committee is committed to a compensation governance structure that  effectively contributes to our company’s overall risk management policies.  2-21 Annual total compensation ratio • 2024 Proxy Statement, CEO pay ratio; p. 85  2-22 Statement on sustainable  development strategy  • Message from"
"the CEO; p. 4; Strategy p. 16-56  • 2023 Annual Report, A letter from Chairman and CEO Brian Moynihan; p. 2 - 11  2-23 Policy commitments • Direct Response: We apply the precautionary approach to identifying and addressing longer-term social and environmental issues  that may impact our business, clients and communities, including global climate change, human rights and responsible business  conduct. Our commitment to specific policies, industry best practices and collaboration with external"
"experts helps to inform our risk  assessments in this area.  • Our company, Business practices, Responsible Growth  • 2024 Code of Conduct, we are making an impact; p. 35  • Supplier Code of Conduct  • Human Rights Statement GRI Content Index Home 97  Disclosure Response 2-24 Embedding policy commitments • Risk Management; p. 57-67  • Our company, Business practices, Responsible Growth  • 2024 Code of Conduct  • Supplier Code of Conduct  • Human Rights Statement  2-25 Processes to remediate"
"negative impacts  • Direct Response: We encourage our employees and supplier employees to speak up, without retaliation, about any concerns they  may have, including through our grievance channels. Through our Ethics and Compliance Hotline, our employees and our supplier  employees can report complaints or possible violations regarding ethical issues or other inappropriate activity, including adverse  impacts on human rights. For additional information, see the 2024 Code of Conduct.  2-26"
"Mechanisms for seeking advice and  raising concerns  • 2024 Code of Conduct  2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations • 2023 Annual Report, Commitments and Contingencies; p. 189-193  2-28 Membership associations • Advocate and Engage Stakeholders p. 49-56  • Direct Response: Information is available on our Investor Relations website.  2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement • Making an impact  • Making an impact, Our approach to ESG priorities  • 2024 Proxy Statement, Shareholder Engagement; p."
"37-38  • 2023 Annual Report, Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics; p. 68  • Direct Response: In 2023, more than 13,680 thousand customers/prospects participated in customer and client satisfaction surveys.  2-30 Collective bargaining agreements • Direct Response: No U.S.-based employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements.  3-1 Process to determine material topics • Governance; p. 9-15  • Making an impact, Our approach to ESG priorities  • Making an impact, Environmental, Social and"
"Governance Reports  3-2 List of material topics • Making an impact, Our approach to ESG priorities  3-3 Management of material topics • Message from the CEO; p. 4  • Governance; p. 9-15  • Making an impact, Our approach to ESG priorities  • Making an impact, Environmental, Social and Governance Reports  • 2023 Annual Report  • 2024 Proxy Statement  201-1 Direct economic value generated  and distributed  • 2023 Annual Report  201-2 Financial implications and other risks and  opportunities due to"
"climate change  • Risk Management; p. 57-67  • 2023 Annual Report  • 2023 CDP Climate Change Questionnaire  GRI Content Index Home 98  Disclosure Response 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations  and other retirement plans  • Working Here, Being a great place to work, Wellness and benefits  • 2023 Annual Report, Human Capital Management (p. 46-63) and Note 17 Employee Benefit Plans, Pension and Postretirement  Plans (p. 199-203).  201-4 Financial assistance received from government • Direct"
"Response: Bank of America did not benefit from any direct capital or liquidity assistance from the U.S. government in 2023.  202-1 Ratios of standard entry level  wage by gender compared to local  minimum wage  • Direct Response: We have set a commitment to raise our minimum hourly wage to $25 by 2025. Currently, the Company pays a  minimum hourly wage of $23, which exceeds the federal minimum ($7.25) by 31.5%.  • Omission Statement: The Company does not report on entry level nor minimum wages"
"by gender because they are standard  regardless of gender.  Reason for Omission: Not Applicable  203-1 Infrastructure investments  and services supported  • Metrics and Targets; p. 68-90  • 2023 Annual Report  • Direct Response: In 2023, the Company provided the following support across communities we serve:  Data below reflects calendar year 2023  Access to banking  • Opened 5.76 million consumer demand deposit  accounts (DDAs) that were SafeBalance Banking  accounts, bringing the total percent"
"of DDAs that are  SafeBalance accounts to 54%.  • Increased the number of branches located in low  moderate income (LMI) geographies to 29%.  • Added 2.48 million mobile banking users in 2023,  bringing the total to 37,927,203.  Support for Small Businesses  • Extended nearly 520,000 small business loans, or  78% of loans, to communities classified as LMI.  • Extended $11.54 billion in new credit to small  business owners, contributing to $43.8 billion in total  credit to small business owners"
"(new and renewal).  • Served more than 11 million small business clients.  Home finance  • Served homebuyers, including the 51% of customers who were first time  homebuyers.  • Served first time mortgage customers, including the 37% of whom were  from LMI communities.  • Extended more than $1.69 billion in home equity lines of credit to LMI  customers.  • Had 10,287 first mortgage LMI customers and 27,874 first mortgage  U.S. customers.  • Extended more than $19.41 billion in first mortgages to"
"U.S.  homeowners and $3 billion in first mortgages to LMI customers.  204-1 Proportion of spending on local  suppliers  Omission Statement: The Company does not currently report on the proportion of spending on local suppliers versus non-local  suppliers.  Reason for Omission: Information Unavailable/Incomplete  205-1 Operations assessed for risks  related to corruption  • Direct Response: Businesses with applicable operations are analyzed for risks related to corruption.  • 2023 Annual Report,"
"Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics; p. 67  205-2 Communication and training about  anti-corruption policies and procedures  • Direct Response: All governance body members and employees are required to take training on anti-bribery and anti-corruption  policies as part of Bank of America’s Code of Conduct training. More information on anti-corruption policies and training can be found  in the 2024 Code of Conduct, and a breakdown of the Company’s operations by region can be found on our website. GRI"
"Content Index Home 99      Home Disclosure  Response  205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption  and actions taken  • Omission Statement: As applicable, incidents are disclosed in our 2023 Annual Report. None occurred in this reporting period.  Reason for Omission: Not applicable  206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive  behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices  • Omission Statement: As applicable, incidents are disclosed in our 2023 Annual Report. Data that is intended for limited disclosure"
"on  a need-to-know basis and where unauthorized disclosure, loss or corruption of these data elements would cause serious or high- degree of damage, reputational risk or penalties to the Company, its customers, partners or employees, etc. Reasons for limiting  disclosure include, but are not limited to, government regulations, legal or contractual agreements and competitive advantage for the  Company.  Reason for Omission: Confidentiality Constraints  207-1 Approach to tax  • Omission Statement:"
"Data that is intended for limited disclosure on a need-to-know basis and where unauthorized disclosure, loss or  corruption of these data elements would cause serious or high-degree of damage, reputational risk or penalties to the Company, its  customers, partners or employees, etc. Reasons for limiting disclosure include, but are not limited to, government regulations, legal or  contractual agreements and competitive advantage for the Company.  Reason for Omission: Confidentiality Constraints"
"207-2 Tax governance, control,  and risk management  • Omission Statement: Data that is intended for limited disclosure on a need-to-know basis and where unauthorized disclosure, loss or  corruption of these data elements would cause serious or high-degree of damage, reputational risk or penalties to the Company, its  customers, partners or employees, etc. Reasons for limiting disclosure include, but are not limited to, government regulations, legal or  contractual agreements and competitive"
"advantage for the Company.  Reason for Omission: Confidentiality Constraints  207-3 Stakeholder engagement and  management of concerns related to tax  • Omission Statement: Data that is intended for limited disclosure on a need-to-know basis and where unauthorized disclosure, loss or  corruption of these data elements would cause serious or high-degree of damage, reputational risk or penalties to the Company, its  customers, partners or employees, etc. Reasons for limiting disclosure include,"
"but are not limited to, government regulations, legal or  contractual agreements and competitive advantage for the Company.  Reason for Omission: Confidentiality Constraints  207-4 Country-by-country reporting  • Omission Statement: The Company reports on tax governance in most instances, but does not have the infrastructure required to  record and report it in all instances.  Reason for Omission: Information Unavailable/Incomplete  301-1 Materials used by weight or volume  • Metrics and"
"Targets; p. 68-90  • 2022 Performance Data Summary  301-2 Recycled input materials used  • Making an impact, Environmental sustainability. In 2023, we transitioned to 80% or more recycled plastic use in credit  and debit card production. Switching to recycled plastics for credit cards reduces GHG emissions, energy and water usage.  Using recycled materials for both cards and mailers reduces pollution in waterways, oceans, and landfills. For more, see  newsroom.bankofamerica.com.  302-1 Energy"
"consumption within  the organization  • Metrics and Targets; p. 68-90  • 2023 CDP Climate Change Questionnaire  GRI Content Index  100   Disclosure Response 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption • Metrics and Targets; p. 68-90  • 2023 CDP Climate Change Questionnaire  303-1 Interactions with water  as a shared resource  • Metrics and Targets; p. 68-90  • Direct Response: Water is withdrawn from municipal sources (except for a small amount of rainwater) and discharged to municipal  sewer systems"
"and their associated treatment facilities.  • 2022 Performance Data Summary  • 2023 CDP Climate Change Questionnaire  • Omission Statement: The Company has determined that any further level of granularity in water resource tracking is not material to  the business.  Reason for Omission: Not Applicable  303-2 Management of water  discharge-related impacts  • Direct Response: Water is withdrawn from municipal sources (except for a small amount of rainwater) and discharged to municipal  sewer"
"systems and their associated treatment facilities.  • Omission Statement: The Company has determined that any further this level of granularity in water resource tracking is not  material to the business.  Reason for Omission: Not Applicable  303-3 Water withdrawal • Metrics and Targets; p. 68-90  • Direct Response: Water is withdrawn from municipal sources (except for a small amount of rainwater) and discharged to municipal  sewer systems and their associated treatment facilities.  • 2022"
"Performance Data Summary  • 2023 CDP Climate Change Questionnaire  303-5 Water consumption • Metrics and Targets; p. 68-90  304-1 Operational sites owned, leased,  managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas  and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected  areas  • Metrics and Targets; p. 68-90  • Direct Response: None of our operational sites, whether owned or leased are in or adjacent to protected areas and/or areas of high  biodiversity value.  304-2 Significant impacts of activities,"
"products and services on biodiversity  • Omission Statement: Based on a high-level location analysis of our interactions with nature, our direct operations do not have  significant direct or indirect impacts on biodiversity.  Reason for Omission: Not applicable  304-3 Habitats protected or restored • Making an impact, Environmental sustainability  • See the link above for more information about our environmental stewardship and volunteerism.  • Omission Statement: Due to the limited impacts from"
"our direct operations on nature, we have not undertaken any activities to  conserve or restore any habitat areas.  Reason for Omission: Not applicable  304-4 IUCN Red List species and national  conservation list species with habitats in areas  affected by operations  • Direct Response: Based on our high-level location analysis of our interactions with nature, we have zero IUCN Red List species and  national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by the operations of the"
"organization.  GRI Content Index Home 101  Disclosure Response 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions • Metrics and Targets; p. 68-90  • 2022 Performance Data Summary  • 2023 CDP Climate Change Questionnaire  305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG  emissions  • Metrics and Targets; p. 68-90  • 2022 Performance Data Summary  • 2023 CDP Climate Change Questionnaire  305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions • Metrics and Targets; p. 68-90  • 2022 Performance Data Summary  • 2023 CDP Climate Change"
"Questionnaire  305-4 GHG emissions intensity • Metrics and Targets; p. 68-90  • 2022 Performance Data Summary  • 2023 CDP Climate Change Questionnaire  305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions • Metrics and Targets; p. 68-90  • 2022 Performance Data Summary  • 2023 CDP Climate Change Questionnaire  305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances  (ODS)  • Metrics and Targets; p. 68-90  305-7 Nitrogen Oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and  other significant air emissions  • Metrics and Targets; p. 68-90"
"306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related  impacts  • Metrics and Targets; p. 68-90  306-2 Management of significant waste-related  impacts  • Metrics and Targets; p. 68-90  306-3 Waste generated • Metrics and Targets; p. 68-90  308-1 New suppliers that were screened using  environmental criteria  • Metrics and Targets; p. 68-90  401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover • 2023 Annual Report, Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) diversity statistics; p. 62  • Omission Statement:"
"The Company does not report new employee hires nor turnover by age group.  Reason for Omission: Information Unavailable/Incomplete  401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that  are not provided to temporary or part-time employees  • 2023 Annual Report, Human Capital Management, Benefits overview; p. 50-52  • Working here, Being a great place to work, Wellness and benefits  • Working here, Being a great place to work, Recognizing and rewarding performance  401-3 Parental leave • 2023"
"Annual Report, Human Capital Management, Benefits overview; p. 50-52  • Working here, Being a great place to work, Wellness and benefits  GRI Content Index Home 102  Disclosure Response 403-1 Occupational health and safety management  system  • Direct Response: See the Human Capital Management section of the 2023 Annual Report (p. 46-63) for information on how Bank of  America supports employee safety and health. In addition, Bank of America’s Enterprise Occupational Safety and Health Policy"
"complies with relevant statutory requirements relating to health, safety and the physical environment, as they affect employees,  suppliers, clients and the public. The Company is committed to providing a safe working environment for its employees, customers,  third party suppliers and any others operating within Company premises or at the behest of the Company. a. The Company maintains  a global safety program that aligns with applicable laws, rules and regulations and is supplemented by"
"regional safety and health  systems that support the Bank’s policy. b. The Bank’s Safety Program covers all employees, workplaces and activities conducted on  behalf of the Company. The Company’s Safety Program incorporates the following statement: Safety is everyone’s responsibility.  Supporting workplace safety assures your own protection and the protection of other employees, customers, contractors/suppliers  and the general public.  403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and  incident"
"investigation  • Direct Response: Bank of America’s Occupational Safety and Health Council advises on direction and changes of the Enterprise  Occupational Safety and Health Policy. It reviews the safety and health metric dashboard and corresponding action plans quarterly in  line with Policy objectives and resolves issues and risks that have been escalated. a. The objective of the Bank of America Safety  Program is to provide a safe work environment and to identify, correct and eliminate"
"workplace hazards. Employees may raise issues  regarding workplace health or safety to the 24/7 security hotline. Additionally, workplace hazards should be reported to an appropriate  member of management, the site safety coordinator (if applicable), Corporate Workplace (Facility Management) or anonymously  through the Ethics and Compliance Hotline. b. Bank of America’s Employee Handbook states the following: “All employees have the  right to raise issues or file a workplace health or safety"
"complaint without fear of retaliation. To anonymously report any complaints,  contact the Ethics and Compliance Hotline…” Additionally, there are numerous Whistleblower Policies in place across the globe.  403-3 Occupational health services • Direct Response: See the Human Capital Management section of the 2023 Annual Report (p. 46-63) for information on how the  Company supports employee safety and health. In addition, the Company makes health services available for all employees who  require"
"consultations and/or care related to a workplace hazard or incident, including dedicated Life Events Services or Employee  Assistance Program resources as needed to facilitate a smooth transition back to work. Our Life Safety team facilitates the  Occupational Safety and Health Council at an enterprise level, ensuring multiple lines of business work together to identify and  minimize risk across their functions and our global footprint. Regionally-based security/safety managers proactively"
"assess and  mitigate many situational and physical risks while also responding to workplace safety concerns escalated through our numerous  reporting channels (24/7 Security Hotline, See Something Say Something anonymous reporting, direct engagement, etc.).  403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and  communication on occupational health and safety  • Direct Response: The Company engages in a variety of consultation and communication activities dependent upon sizes of offices  ranging from"
"direct senior management face to face meetings through to health and safety committees and works councils at which  employee representatives are attendees. Bank of America’s Occupational Safety and Health Council advises on direction and changes  of the Enterprise Occupational Safety and Health Policy. It reviews the safety and health metric dashboard and corresponding action  plans quarterly in line with Policy objectives and resolves issues and risks that have been escalated to the Council."
"See the Human  Capital Management section of the 2023 Annual Report (p. 46-63) for more information.  403-5 Worker training on occupational health and  safety  • Direct Response: Annual safety-related enterprise training is required of all employees and is compliant with applicable laws, rules  and regulations. Additionally, safety and health training is provided for specific work environment hazards/risks in accordance with  laws, rules and regulations (i.e., Chemical Inventory and Material"
"Safety Data Sheets and Powered Industrial Truck Operator Training  Assessment and Asset Inventory). See also the 2023 Annual Report for information on well-being-related training and other expanded  resources.  GRI Content Index Home 103  Disclosure Response 403-6 Promotion of worker health • 2023 Annual Report, Human Capital Management, Benefits overview; p. 50-52  • Working here, Being a great place to work, Wellness and benefits  403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational  health and"
"safety impacts directly linked by business  relationships  • Direct Response: The Company does not own all the buildings in which we operate. Where that is not the case, we manage safety  and health risk through contractual agreements, and relationships with landlords and third party suppliers to identify and resolve  unfavorable safety and health conditions in the workplace. Suppliers are bound by contract to adhere to Bank policies and standards  while performing services for or on behalf of"
"the Company and/or when on Bank premises. Customers, employees and visitors are  required to adhere to all posted safety signage, including, but not limited to no smoking, firearms prohibitions, etc. Additional health  and safety information can be found in the 2023 Annual Report (p. 46-63).  403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and  safety management system  • Direct Response: As mentioned previously, all (100% of) employees and others whose workplace may be controlled by the Company"
"are covered by Bank of America’s Enterprise Safety Program, in accordance with Bank of America’s Occupational Safety and Health  (OSH) Policy and with Federal and state Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) plans, which is subject to regular  internal audit as well as Federal OSHA and state and local safety and health agency inspections.  404-1 Average hours of training per year per  employee  • 2023 Annual Report, Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) diversity statistics including"
"number of training hours; p. 63  • Omission Statement: The Company does not report this by employee category at this time.  Reason for Omission: Information Unavailable/Incomplete  404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and  transition assistance programs  • 2023 Annual Report, Human Capital Management; p. 46-63  • Working here, Being a great place to work, Wellness and benefits  • Working here, Being a great place to work, Recognizing and rewarding performance  405-1 Diversity of"
"governance bodies and employees • 2023 Annual Report, Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) diversity statistics; p. 62  • Omission Statement: Bank of America does not report on employees by age group. However, the ages of members of the Board of  Directors are available in the 2024 Proxy Statement.  Reason for Omission: Information Unavailable/Incomplete  405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of  women to men  • 2024 Proxy Statement; p. 44  • 2023 Annual Report, Principles of Governance; p."
"72  • Working here, Being a great place to work, Recognizing and rewarding performance  407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to  freedom of association and collective bargaining may  be at risk  • Direct Response: With respect to our operations, no U.S.-based employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. For our  supply chain, we do not collect this data.  408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for  incidents of child labor  • Modern Slavery Act Statement  •"
"Human Rights Statement  409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for  incidents of forced or compulsory labor  • Modern Slavery Act Statement  • Human Rights Statement  410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights  policies or procedures  • Modern Slavery Act Statement GRI Content Index Home 104  Disclosure Response 413-1 Operations with local community engagement,  impact assessments, and development programs  • 2023 Annual Report  • 2023 CDP Climate Change Questionnaire  • 2024"
"Code of Conduct  • Making an impact, Our approach to ESG priorities  • Direct Response: See GRI 403 for more information on occupational health and safety committees.  414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social  criteria  • Direct Response: As part of our supply chain monitoring process, all suppliers receive our Supplier Code of Conduct, which sets forth  our expectations for human rights, labor and environmental standards throughout our global supply chain. We monitor compliance  with"
"the code using a risk-based approach, which includes assessing our largest suppliers for risk prior to contracting. Our supplier  contract templates include terms aligned to the expectations set forth in our code.  414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and  actions taken  • Direct Response: Refer to the 2024 Modern Slavery Act Statement for the number of suppliers with identified risks and percentage  of total suppliers this represents.  • Human Rights Statement  415-1 Political"
"contributions • Direct Response: Information is available on our Investor Relations website.  417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning  product and service information and labelling  • Direct Response: We report and manage material non-compliance incidents in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements.  417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning  marketing communications  • Direct Response: We report and manage material non-compliance incidents in accordance with applicable"
"regulatory requirements.  418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches  of customer privacy and losses of customer data.  • Privacy and Security  • Omission Statement: The Company does not publicly report on the total number of substantiated complaints received concerning  breaches of customer privacy nor the total number of identified leaks, thefts or losses of customer data.  • Reason for Omission: Confidentiality constraints  GRI Content Index Home 105  Informed by numerous"
"organizations’ guidelines and frameworks, as well as financial industry and experts at the Company, in 2024 we created a Transition Plan,  components of which we disclose in this document. Our ability to provide support to our clients in their transition toward Net Zero, which may involve referring  to voluntary frameworks for their sector, is critical to our own transition. Below is a table overviewing the components of this document that address elements  of our Transition Plan.    Section /"
"Theme  Component  Key content Report section  Governance Roles,  Responsibilities  and Remuneration  Roles for the Board or strategy oversight body and senior management ensuring they have  ownership, oversight and responsibility for the Net Zero targets. Appropriate individuals and teams  assigned to aspects of both design and delivery of the Transition Plan. Remuneration incentives for  appropriate roles, where possible. Review of progress and plans regularly to include updates/  developments,"
"challenges are reviewed as an opportunity to correct course and implementation  risks are properly managed.  Governance  Skills and Culture  Training and development support to the teams and individuals designing, implementing and  overseeing the plan so that they have sufficient skills and knowledge to perform their roles  (including at the Board and senior management level). Support to embed the Transition Plan into  the organization’s culture and practices.  Governance  • Board of Directors"
"Oversight  Strategy  • Minimize BAC's Impact on the  Environment: Net Zero before 2050  • Support and Enable Clients to Achieve  Net Zero before 2050  • Advocate and Engage Stakeholders  Strategy /  Foundation  Objectives and  Priorities  The organization’s objectives to reach Net Zero by 2050 or sooner, in line with science-based  pathways to limit warming to 1.5°C, with clearly defined and measurable interim and long-term  targets and strategic timelines as well as priority financing"
"strategies of Net Zero transition action  to enable real economy emissions reduction.  Strategy  • Minimize BAC's Impact on the  Environment: Net Zero before 2050  Strategy /  Implementation  Products and  Services  Use of existing and new products and services to support and increase clients' efforts to transition  in line with 1.5°C Net Zero pathways. Include accelerating and scaling the Net Zero transition in the  real economy, providing transition-related education and advice and supporting"
"portfolio  decarbonization in accordance with the institution's Net Zero transition strategy.  Strategy  • Support and Enable Clients to Achieve  Net Zero before 2050  Activities and  Decision-Making  Embedding of the financial institution's Net Zero objectives and priorities in its core evaluation and  decision-making tools and processes . This applies to both top-down/oversight structures and  bottom-up tools and actions.  Governance  • Management Oversight  Strategy  • Minimize BAC's Impact"
"on the  Environment: Net Zero before 2050 Transition Plan Index Home 106 Transition Plan Index   Section /  Theme Component  Key content Report section Strategy /  Engagement  Clients and  Portfolio  Companies  Proactive and constructive feedback and support to clients and portfolio companies to encourage  Net Zero-aligned transition strategies, plans and progress  Strategy  • Support and Enable Clients to Achieve  Net Zero before 2050  Industry Engagement with peers in the industry to 1) as"
"appropriate, exchange transition expertise and  collectively work on common challenges, and 2) represent the financial sector’s views cohesively to  external stakeholders, such as clients and governments.  Strategy  • Advocate and Engage Stakeholders  Government and  Public Sector  Direct and indirect lobbying and public-sector engagement to, in a consistent manner, support an  orderly transition to Net Zero,  Governance  • Management Oversight  Strategy  • Advocate and Engage Stakeholders"
"Metrics and  Targets  Metrics and  Targets  Established a suite of metrics and targets to drive execution of the Transition Plan and monitor  progress of results in the near, medium and long term. Metrics and targets are focused on aligning  financial activity in support of the real-economy Net Zero transition, executing the Transition Plan  and measuring changes in client and portfolio GHG emissions.  Metrics and Targets  Transition Plan Index Home 107  Key Partnerships Home 108"
"Organization/Initiative Overview  Ceres Advances leadership among investors, companies and capital market influencers to drive solutions and take action on the world’s most  pressing sustainability issues.  World Economic Forum Alliance of CEO Climate  Leaders  Group of CEOs who continue to set the bar higher and catalyze action across all sectors and engage policymakers to help deliver the  transition to a Net Zero economy.  Risk Management Association’s Climate Risk  Consortium  Focuses on"
"advancing best practices in climate risk management within the financial services industry.  Coalition for Negative Emissions Coalition of potential capturers and purchasers of carbon removals, supply chain and industry organizations providing policymakers,  NGOs and other key stakeholders with a platform to advance global action to rapidly deploy negative emissions solutions.  Natural Climate Solutions Alliance Multistakeholder coalition supporting and catalyzing the use of high-quality NCS"
"carbon credits.  IETA (formerly known as the International Emissions  Trading Association)  IETA is a nonprofit business organization representing over 300 leading international organizations operating in compliance and  voluntary carbon markets. For 25 years, IETA has been the leading voice of business on ambitious market-based climate change  solutions. IETA advocates for market-based trading systems for emissions reductions and removals that are environmentally robust,  fair, open, efficient,"
"accountable and consistent across national boundaries. IETA is a trusted partner in developing international policies  and market frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at the lowest cost while building a credible path to Net Zero emissions.  The Global Investors for Sustainable Development  Alliance  Alliance of leaders from major financial institutions and corporations across the globe seeking to deliver concrete solutions to scale up  long-term finance and investment in sustainable"
"development in partnership with fellow investors, governments and multilateral  development institutions.  International Swaps and Derivatives Associations  (ISDA)  Bank of America was a participant in ISDA’s Trading Book Climate Scenario Working Group, an industry collaboration to explore the  climate-related risks impacting trading books.  Since 1985, ISDA has worked to make the global derivatives markets safer and more efficient. Today, ISDA has over 1,000 member  institutions from 77"
"countries. These members comprise a broad range of derivatives market participants, including corporations,  investment managers, government and supranational entities, insurance companies, energy and commodities firms, and international  and regional banks. In addition to market participants, members also include key components of the derivatives market infrastructure,  such as exchanges, intermediaries, clearing houses and repositories, as well as law firms, accounting firms and other service"
"providers.  Key Partnerships   Home 109 Organization/Initiative Overview Center for Climate and Energy Solutions (C2ES) Environmental nonprofit focused on advancing strong policy and ambitious action to meet critical climate and energy challenges. Bank  of America serves with over 40 other companies on C2ES’s Business Environmental Leadership Council — the largest U.S.-based  association of companies devoted to climate-related policy and corporate strategies.  World Resource Institute's"
"Corporate Consultative  Group (CCG)  World Resources Institute (WRI) is a global organization that uses research-based approaches to meet people’s essential needs, to  protect and restore nature, and to stabilize the climate and build more resilient communities. Bank of America is a member of WRI’s  Corporate Consultative Group (CCG) that includes more than 30 global companies partnering with WRI to advance business practices  that mitigate harm and invest in improved outcomes for people, nature"
"and climate. In addition to impact partnership, CCG  membership dues provide unrestricted funding which is critical for WRI’s open-source tools, platforms and research.  EIT Climate-KIC EIT Climate-KIC is Europe’s leading climate innovation agency and community, supporting cities, regions, countries and industries to  bridge the gap between climate commitments and current reality. Bank of America is the lead corporate supporter of EIT Climate-KIC’s  ClimateLaunchpad program in Europe, reaching"
"new entrepreneurs and bringing together technology and green innovation to catalyze  climate impact, create jobs and contribute toward a Just Transition.  UK Finance Trade association for the U.K. banking and financial services sector that represents over 300 firms in the U.K., providing credit, banking,  markets and payment-related services. Bank of America is an active participant in UK Finance’s working groups focused on  sustainability.  Oxford University – Smith School of Enterprise and the"
"Environment (SSEE)  The Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment (SSEE) sits within Oxford and is part of a world-leading ecosystem of  environmental change-makers, delivering business-focused solutions to stabilize the climate and protect the natural world. Bank of  America is partnering with Oxford’s Smith School (2022-2024) to accelerate groundbreaking research in the climate space. Through  this work, Researchers are exploring critical themes such as greenhouse gas removal, water"
"security and food sustainability, as well as  the integration of nature-based metrics into sustainable finance frameworks.  Key Partnerships  Environmental and Social Assurance Statements  INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE STATEMENT  To: The Stakeholders of Bank of America  Introduction and objectives of work  Apex Companies, LLC (Apex) has been engaged by Bank of America to  provide limited assurance of select aspects of its Environmental Policy/  Management System implementation. This assurance"
"statement applies to  the Subject Matter included within the scope of work described below.  The Subject Matter information is the sole responsibility of the  management of Bank of America. Apex was not involved in the drafting of  the Report. Our sole responsibility was to provide independent assurance on  the accuracy of the Subject Matter. This is the tenth year in which we have  provided assurance over Bank of America’s select aspects of its  Environmental Policy/Management System.  Scope of"
"work  The scope of our work was limited to assurance over the following  information included within the Report for the period of January 1, 2023  through December 31, 2023 (the ‘Subject Matter’).  Bank of America requested Apex to conduct an independent review of select  aspects of Bank of America’s Environmental Policy/Management System  (EMS), specifically:  • Existence of a written policy outlining the organization’s programs and  guidelines on environmental resource management and"
"compliance;  planning and resources to develop them; and the procedure for the  implementation and management of those programs and policies.  • Implementation of policies outlined in the EMS.  • Existence of an EMS Database / Information System.  • Existence of Bank of America’s internal EMS verification program.  Our assurance does not extend to any other information included in the  Report.  Reporting Criteria  The Subject Matter needs to be read and understood together with the Bank  of"
"America’s EMS and CSA.  Limitations and Exclusions  Excluded from the scope of our work is any assurance of information  relating to:  • Certification of Bank of America’s EMS or verification program against  any international or other external standard.  • Activities outside the defined assurance period.  This limited assurance engagement relies on a risk based  selected sample of data and the associated limitations  that this entails. This independent statement should not  be relied upon to"
"detect all errors, omissions or  misstatements that may exist.  Responsibilities  The preparation and presentation of the Subject Matter in the Report are  the sole responsibility of the management of Bank of America.  Apex was not involved in the drafting of the Report or of the Reporting  Criteria. Our responsibilities were to:  • obtain limited assurance about whether the Subject Matter has been  prepared in accordance with the Reporting Criteria;  • form an independent conclusion based on"
"the assurance procedures  performed and evidence obtained; and  • report our conclusions to the Stakeholders of Bank of America.  Assessment Standards  We performed our work in accordance with Apex’s standard procedures and  guidelines for external Assurance of Sustainability Reports and International  Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Revised, Assurance  Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial  Information (effective for assurance reports dated on or after"
"Dec. 15,  2015), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.  A materiality threshold of ±5-percent was set for the assurance process.  Summary of Work Performed  As part of our independent assurance, our work included:  1. Assessing the appropriateness of the Reporting Criteria for the Subject  Matter;  2. Conducting interviews with relevant personnel of Bank of America,  their contractors and consultants;  3. Reviewing documentary evidence provided by Bank of America,"
"their  contractors and consultants;  4. Conducting in-person reviews of EMS implementation for two facilities  in Phoenix, Arizona conducted during February 2024 and reviewing  EMS audit results for 2023; and,  5. Reviewing Bank of America systems for collection, aggregation,  analysis, internal verification, and review of environmental data. Environmental and Social Assurance Statement Home 110  Conclusion  On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above, it is our  opinion"
"that:  • Nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the Subject Matter  is not fairly stated in all material respects; and  • It is our opinion that Bank of America has established appropriate  systems for the collection, aggregation and analysis of quantitative  data for the Subject Matter.  Statement of Independence, Integrity and Competence  Apex is an independent professional services company that specializes in  Health, Safety, Social and Environmental management services including"
"assurance with over 30 years history in providing these services.  Apex has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain  high ethical standards among staff in their day-to-day business activities.  No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with Bank of  America, its Directors or Managers beyond that required of this assignment.  We have conducted this assurance independently, and there has been no  conflict of interest.  The assurance team has extensive"
"experience in conducting assurance over  environmental, social, ethical and health and safety information, systems  and processes, has over 20 years combined experience in this field and an  excellent understanding of Apex’s standard methodology for the assurance  of sustainability related assertions.  John A. Rohde, Lead Verifier  Apex Companies, LLC                                        Lakewood, Colorado                                                                       Trevor Donaghu,"
"Technical  Reviewer  Apex Companies, LLC  Pleasant Hill, California  May 2, 2024  This assurance statement, including the opinion expressed herein, is provided to  Bank of America and is solely for the benefit of Bank of America in accordance  with the terms of our agreement. We consent to the release of this statement  by you to the public or other organizations but without accepting or assuming  any responsibility or liability on our part to CDP or to any other party who may  have access to"
"this statement. Environmental and Social Assurance Statement Home 111  INDEPENDENT REASONABLE AND LIMITED ASSURANCE  STATEMENT  To: The Stakeholders of Bank of America  Introduction and objectives of work  Apex Companies, LLC (Apex) has been engaged by Bank of America to  provide assurance of selected environmental and social data reported in its  2023 Environmental, Social & Governance Report (the Report). This  assurance statement applies to the Subject Matter included within the  scope of"
"work described below.  The Subject Matter information and its presentation in the 2023  Environmental, Social & Governance Report are the sole responsibility of the  management of Bank of America. Apex was not involved in the drafting of  the Report. Our sole responsibility was to provide independent assurance on  the accuracy of the Subject Matter. This is the ninth year in which we have  provided assurance over Bank of America’s selected environmental and  social data.  Scope of work  The"
"scope of our work was limited to assurance over the following  information included within the Report for the period of January 1, 2023  through December 31, 2023 (the ‘Subject Matter’):  • Reasonable Assurance of the environmental data and information  included in the Report for the calendar year 2023 reporting period,  specifically:  –  Materials (Total quantities procured and percentage of  recycled input materials - paper)  –  Energy (Direct and Indirect Consumption; Energy saved due  to"
"conservation; Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or  renewable energy-based products; Carbon Neutrality; and  initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption)  –  Water (Total withdrawal and volume recycled; initiatives to  reduce consumption, withdrawal and consumption from  water stressed areas)  –  Air Emissions (Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions: Direct  Scope 1 and Indirect Scope 2 emissions by weight, by  country and by region; Emissions of ozone- depleting  substances by weight;"
"Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas  emissions and reductions achieved; Nitrous Oxides (NOx)  emitted; Sulfur Oxides (SOx) emitted; and other significant  air emissions)  –  Waste Quantities and Disposition  –  Total number and volume of significant spills  –  Compliance (Monetary value of  significant fines for non-compliance  with environmental laws & regulations  and amount spent on environmental  compliance)  –  Transport (Significant environmental  impact of transporting products and"
"other goods and materials used for the organization’s  operations, and transporting members of the workforce)  • Limited Assurance of Scope 3 GHG Emissions and select social data  and information included in the Report for the calendar year 2023  reporting period, specifically:  –  Optional Scope 3 GHG emissions related to purchased  goods and services; capital goods; fuel and energy related  activities; upstream transportation and distribution; waste  disposal;  business  travel;  employee"
"commuting;  downstream transportation and distribution; use of sold  products; and end of life treatment of sold products  –  Other Metrics (EV Charging Stations, Societal impacts of  air pollution and GHG emissions, Sustainable Aviation Fuel  (SAF) usage, Vendor CDP Engagement, and sites in areas  protected for biodiversity)  • Appropriateness and robustness of underlying reporting systems and  processes, used to collect, analyze, and review the information  reported;  • Evaluation of the"
"reported data against the principles of the Global  Reporting Initiative (GRI) Reporting Framework as defined in the GRI  Sustainability Reporting Standards, Core Option.  Reporting Criteria  The Subject Matter needs to be read and understood together with the Bank  of America’s Inventory Management Plan which is based on the Global  Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, descriptions of the Subject Matter in  the Report, and the GRI Standards.  Limitations and Exclusions  Excluded from the scope"
"of our work is any assurance of information  relating to:  • Activities outside the defined assurance period;  • Text or other written statements associated with the Report; and  • Financial information that is audited by others.  This limited and reasonable assurance engagement relies on a risk based  selected sample of sustainability data and the associated limitations that  this entails. This independent statement should not be relied upon to detect  all errors, omissions or misstatements"
"that may exist. Environmental and Social Assurance Statement Home 112  Responsibilities  The preparation and presentation of the Subject Matter in the Report are  the sole responsibility of the management of Bank of America.  Apex was not involved in the drafting of the Report or of the Reporting  Criteria. Our responsibilities were to:  • obtain limited or reasonable assurance about whether the Subject  Matter has been prepared in accordance with the Reporting Criteria;  • form an independent"
"conclusion based on the assurance procedures  performed and evidence obtained; and  • report our conclusions to the Directors of Bank of America.  Assessment Standards  We performed our work in accordance with Apex’s standard procedures and  guidelines for external Assurance of Sustainability Reports and International  Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Revised, Assurance  Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial  Information (effective for assurance reports"
"dated on or after Dec. 15,  2015), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.  A materiality threshold of ±5-percent was set for the assurance process.  Summary of Work Performed  As part of our independent assurance, our work included:  1. Assessing the appropriateness of the Reporting Criteria for the Subject  Matter;  2. Conducting interviews with relevant personnel of Bank of America,  their contractors and consultants;  3. Reviewing the data collection and"
"consolidation processes used to  compile the Subject Matter, including assessing assumptions made,  and the data scope and reporting boundaries;  4. Reviewing documentary evidence provided by Bank of America, their  contractors and consultants;  5. Agreeing a selection of the Subject Matter to the corresponding source  documentation;  6. Reviewing Bank of America systems for quantitative data aggregation  and analysis;  7. Assessing the disclosure and presentation of the Subject Matter to"
"ensure consistency with assured information;  8. Conducting a in-person review of EMS implementation for two  facilities in Phoenix, Arizona conducted during February 2024;  9. Conducting a review during a meeting with Bank of America  headquarters personnel and consultants in Charlotte, North Carolina to  review methods for Subject Matter compilation and management;  10.  Reperforming a selection of aggregation calculations of the Subject  Matter; and  11.  Comparing the Subject Matter"
"information to the prior year  amounts taking into consideration changes in business activities,  acquisitions and disposals.  Conclusion  On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above, it is our  opinion that:  • Bank of America’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 (location- and market-based)  GHG emissions, water, waste and other information subject to  reasonable assurance is presented in accordance with the Reporting  Criteria and is, in all material respects, fairly stated"
"(Reasonable);  • Nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the Scope 3 GHG  emissions, social and other information subject to limited assurance  are not fairly stated in all material respects (Limited); and  • It is our opinion that Bank of America has established appropriate  systems for the collection, aggregation and analysis of Subject Matter  (e.g., quantitative data including Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 GHG  emissions, and other select social and sustainability metrics).  The"
"assured information is summarized in the attached table.  Statement of Independence, Integrity and Competence  Apex is an independent professional services company that specializes in  Health, Safety, Social and Environmental management services including  assurance with over 30 years history in providing these services.  Apex has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain  high ethical standards among staff in their day-to-day business activities.  No member of the assurance"
"team has a business relationship with Bank of  America, its Directors or Managers beyond that required of this assignment.  We have conducted this assurance independently, and there has been no  conflict of interest. Environmental and Social Assurance Statement Home 113  The assurance team has extensive experience in conducting assurance over  environmental, social, ethical and health and safety information, systems  and processes, has over 20 years combined experience in this field and an"
"excellent understanding of Apex’s standard methodology for the assurance  of sustainability related assertions.  John A. Rohde, Lead Verifier   Apex Companies, LLC                                        Lakewood, Colorado                                                                      Trevor Donaghu, Technical  Reviewer  Apex Companies, LLC  Pleasant Hill, California  May 23, 2024  This assurance statement, including the opinion expressed herein, is provided to  Bank of America and is"
"solely for the benefit of Bank of America in accordance  with the terms of our agreement. We consent to the release of this statement  by you to the public or other organizations but without accepting or assuming  any responsibility or liability on our part to CDP or to any other party who may  have access to this statement. Environmental and Social Assurance Statement Home 114  Assured Data: Calendar Year 2023  Environmental and Social Assurance Statement Home 115 Energy  Electricity"
"6,382,669 GJ  Other Indirect (purchased steam and cooling)   123,028 GJ  Natural Gas   721,683 GJ  Other Direct (fuel oil, jet fuel, gasoline, diesel fuel, propane)   377,115 GJ  Energy Saved Due to Conservation (Projected)   62,247 GJ  Emissions Saved Due to Conservation (Projected)   5,599 tCO2e  Estimated Cumulative Energy Savings (2010-2023) >$589 M  Projected annual monetary investment on climate-related capital expenditure   172,222 Thousand USD  Electricity from Renewable Sources  Total"
"Renewable and Non-Renewable Electricity Consumption   1,772,964 MWh  Total Renewable Electricity Procured   1,850,251 MWh  % of Total Electricity Procured from Renewable Sources 104 %  Water  Total Withdrawal 1.61 US gallons (B)  Total Potable Water Withdrawal 1.57 US gallons (B)  Total Consumption 0.36 US gallons (B)  Total Withdrawal in Water-stressed Areas   3,299 Megaliters  Total Consumption in  Water-stressed Areas 778 Megaliters  Water Saved Due to Conservation (Projected)   33,572.00"
"Thousand US gallons  Waste Quantities and Disposition  e-Waste Disposed through Certified Vendors 99.98 %  Non-Hazardous Waste (Landfill and Incineration)   29,249 Metric tons  Non-Hazardous Waste (Recycling and Compost)   56,616 Metric tons  Construction and Demolition Waste (Landfill and Incineration)   3,745 Metric tons  Construction and Demolition Waste (Recycling, reuse and salvage)   11,817 Metric tons  Construction and Demolition Waste - Landfill Diversion Rate 76 %  Hazardous, Universal,"
"Used Oil and Asbestos Waste (Landfill and Incineration) 0 Metric tons  Hazardous, Universal, Used Oil and Asbestos Waste (Recycling, Reuse and Salvage)   1,176 Metric tons  Total Waste    87,040 Metric tons  Materials  Paper  Total Paper   28,952 Metric tons  Recycled Input Materials by weight 20 %  Certified Materials by weight 98.2 %  Transportation  Support Production and Use of SAF (Cumulative since 2022) 3.8 Gallons (M)  Percent of jet fuel usage utilizing SAF for annual corporate and"
"commercial jet fuel usage 31 %  Mobilize sustainable finance investment for the production of SAF and other low-carbon aviation solutions 0.2 USD (B)  Supplier Engagement  Response rate to climate disclosure requests 87 %  Suppliers asked to disclose climate data 354 number  % of spend with suppliers who report GHG or renewable energy targets 70 %  % of spend with suppliers assessed for ESG risks as outlined by our Supplier Code of Conduct 86 %   Emissions  Scope 1 GHG Emissions   68,050.00"
"tCO2e  Scope 2 GHG Location-Based Emissions   610,013.00 tCO2e  Scope 2 GHG Market-Based Emissions   17,736.00 tCO2e  Scope 1 and Scope 2 Carbon Credits Retired   85,786.00 tCO2e  Total Net Scope 1 and Market-Based Scope 2 Emissions 0 tCO2e  Scope 3 GHG Emissions  Purchased Goods and  Services   1,722,654 tCO2e  Capital Goods   48,570 tCO2e  Fuel- and Energy-Related  Activities   168,018 tCO2e  Upstream Transportation  and Distribution   152,752 tCO2e  Waste (Traditional  Disposal)   18,406"
"tCO2e  Gross Business Travel    92,818 tCO2e  Business Travel Carbon  Credits Retired   92,819 tCO2e  Net Business Travel   — tCO2e  Employee Commuting   355,974 tCO2e  Downstream Transportation and Distribution   1,000,000 tCO2e  Use of Sold Products   2,000 tCO2e  End of Life Treatment of Sold Products   10,000 tCO2e  GHG Emissions by Region Scope 1  direct emissions (tCO2e)  Scope 2  indirect emissions -  location-based (tCO2e)  Scope 2  indirect emissions  market-based (tCO2e)  Total Scope 1"
"and Scope  2 emissions - location- based (tCO2e)  Total Scope 1 and Scope  2 emissions - market- based (tCO2e)  U.S. and Canada   64,091   510,430.00   4,842.00   574,521.00   68,934.00  Asia Pacific 598   78,223.00   12,246.00   78,821.00   12,844.00  EMEA   3,298   19,979.00  593   23,277.00   3,891.00  Latin America 62   1,381.00  55   1,443.00  117  Carbon Credits  Avoidance Carbon Credits Retired   100,806 tCO2e  Removal Carbon Credits Retired   77,799 tCO2e  Total Carbon Credits Retired"
"178,605 tCO2e  Valued Societal Impact of GHG Emissions   216,712,000 USD  Emissions of Ozone-Depleting Substances 2 Metric tons  NOx, SOx and Other Significant Air Emissions from Direct Combustion  Nitrous Oxides (NOX) 19 Metric tons  Sulfur Oxides (SOX) 2 Metric tons  Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) 2 Metric tons Environmental and Social Assurance Statement Home 116  Particulate Matter (PM) 3 Metric tons  Carbon Monoxide (CO) 26 Metric tons  Valued Societal Impact of Air Pollution 138000 USD"
"Facilities  LEED (or comparable) certifications   21,157,019 Net square feet  LEED (or comparable) certifications percent of total  square footage 32 %  Sites in areas protected for biodiversity  13 Sites  Area of buildings in areas protected for biodiversity   7,500.00 Square meters  Total Number and Volume of Significant Releases  Number of Releases  15 qty  Volume of Releases (Gasoline/Diesel) 37 gallons  Amount of Release (Refrigerant)   3,536 lbs  Compliance  Monetary value of significant"
"fines for non-compliance  with environmental laws and regulations 0 USD  Non-Monetary Violations 4  Total Environmental Protection Spend 19,500,000 USD Environmental and Social Assurance Statement Home 117  Financed Emissions Verification Statement  VERIFICATION OPINION DECLARATION GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS  To: The Stakeholders of Bank of America  Apex Companies, LLC (Apex) was engaged to conduct an independent  verification of the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reported by Bank of  America for"
"the period stated below. This verification opinion declaration  applies to the related information included within the scope of work described  below.  The determination of the GHG emissions is the sole responsibility of Bank of  America. Bank of America is responsible for the preparation and fair  presentation of the GHG emissions statement in accordance with the criteria.  Apex’s sole responsibility was to provide independent verification on the  accuracy of the GHG emissions reported, and on"
"the underlying systems and  processes used to collect, analyze and review the information.  Apex is responsible for expressing an opinion on the GHG emissions statement  based on the verification.  Boundaries of the reporting company GHG  emissions covered by the verification:  • Operational Control  • Financed Emissions (Auto Manufacturing, Aviation, Cement, Energy, Iron  and Steel, Maritime [asset specific] and Power Sectors utilized amounts  only)  Type of GHGs: CO2, N2O, CH4, refrigerants"
"GHG Emissions Statement:  Scope 3 - Investments:    Financed Emissions Verification Statement Home 118 Category Units Utilized  Data  Quality  Absolute Total Financed Emissions (Auto Manufacturing includes Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3) Thousand Metric tons CO2e 1,208  2.01  2.02  Absolute Total Financed Emissions (Aviation includes Scope 1) Thousand Metric tons CO2e 4,152 2.5  Absolute Total Financed Emissions (Cement includes Scope 1 and Scope 2) Thousand Metric tons CO2e 1,779 2.2  Absolute"
"Total Financed Emissions (Energy – Pureplay thermal coal extraction includes Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3) Thousand Metric tons CO2e 339 5.0  Absolute Total Financed Emissions (Energy – Upstream producers, refiners, and integrated companies in the oil and gas  industry - includes Scope 1 and Scope 2) Thousand Metric tons CO2e 1,961 2.7  Absolute Total Financed Emissions (Energy -– Upstream producers, refiners, and integrated companies in the oil and gas  industry - includes Scope 3.11) Thousand"
"Metric tons CO2e 18,593 3.4  Absolute Total Financed Emissions (Energy – Midstream and downstream oil and gas companies - includes Scope 1 and  Scope 2) Thousand Metric tons CO2e 2,605 3.6  Absolute Total Financed Emissions (Power Generation - Scope 1 only) Thousand Metric tons CO2e 3,496 2.9  Absolute Total Financed Emissions (Iron & Steel includes Scope 1 and Scope 2) Thousand Metric tons CO2e 2,708 2.6  Portfolio Alignment Score – (Maritime Shipping Asset Specific includes Scope 1) Percent"
"-0.47 2.0  1 Scope 1 and 2  2 Scope 3    Financed Emissions Verification Statement Home 119 Category Units Utilized  Economic Intensity (Auto Manufacturing includes Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3)  Metric tons CO2e/ Million USD  exposure 1,196  Economic Intensity (Aviation includes Scope 1) Metric tons CO2e/ Million USD  e pos re 921  Economic Intensity (Cement includes Scope 1 and Scope 2) Metric tons CO2e/ Million USD  e pos re 2,847  Economic Intensity (Energy - Oil & Gas Refiners and"
"Producers includes Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3) Metric tons CO2e/ Million USD  3,670  Economic Intensity (Energy – Midstream and downstream oil and gas companies - includes Scope 1 and Scope 2)  Metric tons CO2e/ Million USD  exposure 448  Economic Intensity (Energy – Pureplay thermal coal extraction includes Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3)  Metric tons CO2e/ Million USD  exposure 21,787  Economic Intensity (Power Generation - Scope 1 only)  Metric tons CO2e/ Million USD  exposure 371  Economic"
"Intensity (Iron & Steel includes Scope 1 and Scope 2) Metric tons CO2e/ Million USD  e pos re 1,810  Category Units Utilized Physical Intensity (Auto Manufacturing includes Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3) g CO2e/km 201.6  Physical Intensity (Aviation includes Scope 1) gCO2e/RTK 940.1  Physical Intensity (Cement includes Scope 1 and Scope 2) tCO2e/tCP 0.651  Physical Intensity (Energy – Energy - Oil & Gas Refiners and Producers includes Scope 1, Scope 2) g CO2e/MJ 6.5  Physical Intensity (Energy –"
"Oil & Gas Refiners and Producers includes Scope 3) g CO2/MJ 59.7  Physical Intensity (Power Generation – Scope 1 only) kg CO2/MWh 322.2  Physical Intensity (Iron & Steel includes Scope 1 and Scope 2) Metric tons CO2e/Metric Tons CS 1.77  Data and information supporting the Scope 3 GHG emissions statement were in some cases estimated rather than historical in nature.  Period covered by GHG emissions verification:  • January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022  Criteria against which verification was"
"conducted:  • WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain Accounting  and Reporting Standard (Scope 3)  • Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) Global GHG  Accounting & Reporting Standard for the Financial Industry  • Bank of America’s Internal Protocol for calculating Financed Emissions  Reference Standard: ISO 14064-3 Second edition 2019-04: Greenhouse  gases -- Part 3: Specification with guidance for the verification and validation  of greenhouse gas statements"
"Level of Assurance and Qualifications:  • Limited  • This verification used a materiality threshold of ±5% for aggregate errors  in sampled data for each of the above indicators  GHG Verification Methodology:  Evidence-gathering procedures included but were not limited to:  • Interviews with relevant personnel of Bank of America and their  consultant;  • Review of documentary evidence produced by Bank of America;  • Review of Bank of America data and information systems and  methodology for"
"collection, aggregation, analysis and review of  information used to determine GHG emissions; and  • Audit of a sample of data used by Bank of America to determine GHG  emissions.  Verification Opinion:  Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the  Scope 3 GHG emissions statement shown above:  • is not a fair representation of the GHG emissions data and information;  and  • has not been prepared in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse  Gas Protocol Corporate"
"Value Chain Accounting and Reporting Standard  (Scope 3).  It is our opinion that Bank of America has established appropriate systems for  the collection, aggregation and analysis of quantitative data for determination  of these GHG emissions for the stated period and boundaries.  Statement of independence, impartiality and competence  Apex is an independent professional services company that specializes in  Health, Safety, Social and Environmental management services including  assurance with"
"over 30 years history in providing these services.  No member of the verification team has a business relationship with Bank of  America, its Directors or Managers beyond that required of this assignment.  We conducted this verification independently and to our knowledge there has  been no conflict of interest.  Apex has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high  ethical standards among staff in their day-to-day business activities.  The verification team has extensive"
"experience in conducting assurance over  environmental, social, ethical and health and safety information, systems and  processes, has over 20 years combined experience in this field and an excellent  understanding of Apex’s standard methodology for the verification of  greenhouse gas emissions data. Financed Emissions Verification Statement Home 120  Attestation:         John A. Rohde, Lead Verifier  Principal Consultant  Apex Companies, LLC  Trevor Donaghu, Technical Reviewer  ESG Director"
"Apex Companies, LLC  August 12, 2024  This verification opinion declaration, including the opinion expressed herein, is  provided to Bank of America and is solely for the benefit of Bank of America in  accordance with the terms of our agreement. We consent to the release of this  declaration to the public or other organizations for reporting and/or disclosure  purposes, without accepting or assuming any responsibility or liability on our part  to any other party who may have access to this"
"declaration. Financed Emissions Verification Statement Home 121  VERIFICATION OPINION DECLARATION GREENHOUSE GAS  EMISSIONS  To: The Stakeholders of Bank of America  Apex Companies, LLC (Apex) was engaged to conduct an independent  verification of the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reported by Bank of  America for the period stated below. This verification opinion declaration  applies to the related information included within the scope of work described  below.  The determination of the GHG"
"emissions is the sole responsibility of Bank of  America. Bank of America is responsible for the preparation and fair  presentation of the GHG emissions statement in accordance with the criteria.  Apex’s sole responsibility was to provide independent verification on the  accuracy of the GHG emissions reported, and on the underlying systems and  processes used to collect, analyze and review the information. Apex is  responsible for expressing an opinion on the GHG emissions statement based  on"
"the verification.  Boundaries of the reporting company GHG emissions covered by the  verification:  • Operational Control  • Financed Emissions (Auto Manufacturing, Aviation, Cement, Energy, and  Power Sectors utilized amounts only)  Type of GHGs: CO2, N2O, CH4, refrigerants  GHG Emissions Statement:  • Scope 3 – Investments:  Category Units Utilized  Absolute Total Financed Emissions (Auto Manufacturing)1 Thousand Metric  tons CO2e  1,011  Absolute Total Financed Emissions (Aviation includes"
"Scope  1)1  Thousand Metric  tons CO2e  3,486  Category Units Committed  Physical Intensity (Auto Manufacturing)1 g CO2e/km 215  Physical Intensity (Energy – Energy - Oil & Gas Refiners and  Producers includes Scope 1, Scope 2)1  g CO2e/MJ 7  Data and information supporting the Scope 3 GHG emissions statement were  in some cases estimated rather than historical in nature.  Period covered by GHG emissions verification:  • January 1, 2021 to December 31, 2021  Criteria against which verification"
"was conducted:  • WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain Accounting  and Reporting Standard (Scope 3)  • Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials (PCAF) Global GHG  Accounting & Reporting Standard for the Financial Industry  • Bank of America’s Internal Protocol for calculating Financed Emissions  Reference Standard:  • ISO 14064-3 Second edition 2019-04: Greenhouse gases -- Part 3:  Specification with guidance for the verification and validation of  greenhouse gas"
"statements  Level of Assurance and Qualifications:  • Limited  • This verification used a materiality threshold of ±5% for aggregate errors  in sampled data for each of the above indicators  1 This is a restated value Financed Emissions Verification Statement Home 122  GHG Verification Methodology:  Evidence-gathering procedures included but were not limited to:  • Interviews with relevant personnel of Bank of America and their  consultant;  • Review of documentary evidence produced by Bank of"
"America;  • Review of Bank of America data and information systems and  methodology for collection, aggregation, analysis and review of  information used to determine GHG emissions; and  • Audit of a sample of data used by Bank of America to determine GHG  emissions.  Verification Opinion:  Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the  Scope 3 GHG emissions statement shown above:  • is not a fair representation of the GHG emissions data and information;  and  •"
"has not been prepared in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse  Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain Accounting and Reporting Standard  (Scope 3).  It is our opinion that Bank of America has established appropriate systems for  the collection, aggregation and analysis of quantitative data for determination  of these GHG emissions for the stated period and boundaries.  Statement of independence, impartiality and competence  Apex is an independent professional services company that specializes in"
"Health, Safety, Social and Environmental management services including  assurance with over 30 years history in providing these services.  No member of the verification team has a business relationship with Bank of  America, its Directors or Managers beyond that required of this assignment.  We conducted this verification independently and to our knowledge there has  been no conflict of interest.  Apex has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high  ethical standards among"
"staff in their day-to-day business activities.  The verification team has extensive experience in conducting assurance over  environmental, social, ethical and health and safety information, systems and  processes, has over 20 years combined experience in this field and an excellent  understanding of Apex’s standard methodology for the verification of  greenhouse gas emissions data.  John A. Rohde, Lead Verifier  Principal Consultant  Apex Companies, LLC  Trevor Donaghu, Technical Reviewer  ESG"
"Director  Apex Companies, LLC  August 12, 2024  This verification opinion declaration, including the opinion expressed herein, is  provided to Bank of America and is solely for the benefit of Bank of America in  accordance with the terms of our agreement. We consent to the release of this  declaration to the public or other organizations for reporting and/or disclosure  purposes, without accepting or assuming any responsibility or liability on our part  to any other party who may have access to"
"this declaration.  Financed Emissions Verification Statement Home 123 Home  Disclaimers  The information contained in this document is for informational purposes only, is  not intended to be comprehensive and does not constitute investment, financial,  economic, accounting, legal or tax advice or recommendations, nor consulting,  rating agency or ESG advice or ESG rating agency advice. Additionally, such  information is not a product of any research affiliate or division of the Company,  and has"
"not been reviewed, endorsed or otherwise approved by any such research  unit. Any views or opinions expressed herein may differ from the views and  opinions of other departments or divisions of the Company and its affiliates.  Neither the Company nor any of its affiliates, directors, officers, employees or  agents shall incur any responsibility or liability whatsoever to any person or entity  with respect to the contents of, use of, or reliance upon any matters referred to in  this document."
"This document should not be used as a basis for trading in the Company’s  securities or the securities or loans of any of the companies named herein or for  any other investment or voting decision. The information contained in this  document does not constitute and is not intended as a recommendation and/or an  offer or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, purchase or sell any  financial instrument, equity product or other investment, or as an official  confirmation of any"
"transaction or a recommendation for any investment product  or strategy. Additionally, such information does not constitute a commitment,  undertaking, offer or solicitation by any Company entity to underwrite, subscribe  for, or place any securities or to extend or arrange credit or to provide any other  products or services to any person or entity. Historical data shown represents  past performance and does not guarantee comparable future results. The  information and any examples provided in"
"this document are illustrative and none  of the Company or its affiliates is endorsing any particular approach to ESG, any  particular ESG investment strategy or any particular ESG standards, ratings or  metrics by including such information in this document. Any third-party information contained in this document or otherwise used to derive  information in this document is believed to be reasonable and reliable, but no  representation or warranty is made as to the quality, completeness,"
"accuracy,  fitness for a particular purpose or non-infringement of such information. In no  event shall the Company be liable (whether in contract, tort, equity or otherwise) for  any use by any party of, for any decision made or action taken by any party in  reliance upon or for any inaccuracies or errors in, or omissions from, such  information. Any sources of third-party information referred to herein retain all  rights with respect to such data and use of such data herein shall not be deemed"
"to grant a license to any third party. Any use of or reference to third-party brand  names, trademarks, service marks, business descriptions or case studies is for  informational purposes only and does not imply a referral, recommendation or  endorsement by the Company or its affiliates or that such third party has  authorized the Company or its affiliates to promote the third party’s products or  services. Case studies are provided for illustrative purposes only, are not intended  to make any"
"representations as to environmental and sustainability initiatives of  any third party and are not intended to suggest and there is no assurance that,  these or any other engagements will be successful and/or result in positive  outcomes.  DISCLAIMERS Home 124"
