"2024 Sustainability Report  Contents A message from our Chairman  and CEO 1 Governance and our approach 2 Governance 3 Managing sustainable development risks 6 About our reporting 7 Managing climate-related risks 10 Strategy 12 Near, medium and long-term risks 17 Business opportunities 20 Reducing Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 21 Addressing Scope 3 emissions  32 Collaboration and engagement 34 Managing nature-related risks 35 Risk management 36 Responding to biodiversity-related risks 39"
"Supporting conservation 40 Responding to water-related risks 41 Metrics 43 Social 45 Managing social-related risks and impacts 46 Creating shared value 47 Valuing human rights 50 Supply chain and local content 51 Our people 53 A compelling culture 57 Attracting a world-class workforce 59 Valuing our people 61 Safety, health and security 65 Safety 66 Emergency preparedness 70 Occupational health and industrial hygiene 70 Security and cybersecurity 71 Performance 72 Performance by year 72"
"Performance by country 79 AXPC ESG metrics template 81 API template for GHG reporting 83 Data quality and assurance 85 Abbreviations 86  A message from  our Chairman and CEO We believe ConocoPhillips has an essential role in responsibly meeting global energy demand. As the demand continues to  rise for all forms of energy — including oil and natural gas — we are focused on managing environmental and social-related  risks as an integral part of achieving our strong financial and operational"
"performance. While doing so, we are committed to  delivering competitive returns on and of capital and working to meet our operational emissions intensity reduction targets. Since the publication of our last Sustainability Report, we have made progress in reducing emissions intensity across our  operations. We are on track to deliver on our 2030 operational greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity reduction targets  and continue to invest in projects that support our goal of reducing GHG"
"emissions intensity by 50-60% by 2030, from a  2016 baseline. Concurrently, we are advancing activities to achieve near-zero methane emissions intensity by 2030. Now in our third year of  participation in the Oil & Gas Methane Partnership 2.0, we recently earned the Gold Standard Reporting designation for our  measurement-based methane emissions reporting, demonstrating leadership that goes beyond current regulatory  requirements. We are on schedule to meet the World Bank Zero Routine Flaring"
"goal by the end of 2025, excluding the  Marathon Oil assets acquired in late 2024. Integration of those assets into our climate-related risk framework is underway. As we work to reduce our operational emissions, it has become evident that the shift in global priorities — toward energy  security, availability, and affordability — has slowed the progress of the supportive policies and economically viable  technologies needed to achieve net-zero by a defined deadline. As a result, while our"
"ambition to achieve net-zero  operational emissions remains unchanged, we are no longer tying that ambition to a specific year. At the same time, we continue to build a dynamic liquefied natural gas (LNG) portfolio, which plays a critical role in  displacing higher-emissions fuels such as coal in power generation. In 2024, we added to our global LNG portfolio through  agreements that provide additional access to European and Asian natural gas markets. The acquisition of Marathon Oil  further"
"strengthens our position, adding approximately 2 million tonnes per annum of net LNG capacity in Equatorial Guinea. Amid ongoing market volatility and macroeconomic and geopolitical uncertainty, our strategy remains consistent and  durable. Despite longer-term uncertainties, our near-term strategy continues to prioritize building a low-cost of supply, low- GHG intensity portfolio that is resilient to commodity price cycles and policy fluctuations. We are committed to ongoing, meaningful"
"engagement with key stakeholders as we work to continuously improve our  environmental and social performance. This collaboration provides critical insight into stakeholder priorities, helping us  effectively respond to risks and opportunities. Looking ahead, we will continue to play a significant role in meeting future global energy demand. Integrating sustainability  into our planning and decision making enables us to strengthen our competitive advantage while creating value for  stakeholders."
"Ryan M. Lance Chairman and Chief Executive Officer June 2025 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Chairman and CEO message 1  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Governance and our approach 2 Governance  and our  approach Collaborating  with colleagues at  ConocoPhillips  Headquarters in  Houston  We have a comprehensive governance framework that integrates sustainability risks  and trends into our business strategy and decision making processes with the goal of  safely and"
"responsibly finding and delivering energy to the world. We are committed to  sustainable development (SD) across our diverse portfolio and have incorporated  environmental and social-related risks into our planning for decades.  Our commitment to integrating sustainability is  demonstrated through:  • Managing climate-related risks.  • Proactively implementing mitigation actions and  conservation efforts related to nature-related risks,  impacts, dependencies and opportunities.  • Ensuring safe"
"operations and creating shared value for  neighboring communities. • Attracting and retaining a world-class workforce.   • Prioritizing the safety, health and security of our  workforce and the communities where we operate. We strive to responsibly meet the global demand for energy  while continuing to deliver competitive returns on and of  capital and working to meet our previously established  emissions reduction targets. Governance In line with our broader approach to risk management, we"
"integrate sustainability risks and trends into our decision  making using a combination of strategic planning  processes and risk management tools. Our approach  includes continuous improvement and internal assurance. The graphic below illustrates the interrelated nature of  our sustainability oversight. A more comprehensive  summary of our corporate governance approach is  provided on our website.  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Governance and our approach 3 Governance framework"
"Feedback and communication at all levels of the chain is an  important feature of our governance structure. • Public Policy  and Sustainability  Committee • Sustainability and  Public Policy  Executive Council • Sustainable  Development  Leadership Team • Global SD issues  working groups • Environmental and SD  Steering Committee Note: Each layer represents a governance level and the corresponding membership  entity/support.  Board of directors oversight Our board of directors oversees our"
"strategic planning and risk management programs, including those related to  sustainability. The board allocates certain oversight functions to its five standing committees to provide expertise and  effective supervision across the business. The full board also reviews the climate risk strategy at the annual Board Strategy  Session. The activities and design of the ConocoPhillips sustainability governance structure are described briefly below:  We seek to ensure that the board reflects a range"
"of expertise — particularly in the areas of leadership and management,  financial reporting, issues specific to oil and gas-related industries, both domestic and international markets, public policy  and government regulation, technology, public company board service, human capital management, and environmental and  sustainability matters — sufficient to provide sound and prudent guidance with respect to the company’s strategic needs.  To read more about the capabilities and skills of our board"
"of directors and the structure of our committees, please visit our  website and our latest Proxy Statement.  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Governance and our approach 4 Board of directors committee structure Board of directors Directors’ Affairs Public Policy and  Sustainability Audit and Finance Human Resources  and Compensation Executive Regularly evaluates the  size and composition of  the board of directors  and continually ensures  that it fits the company’s  strategic needs."
"Reviews and monitors  climate, nature and social- related trends, and  domestic and international  public policy issues.  Makes recommendations  to the board of directors  and monitors compliance  with our company’s  sustainability policy,  standard and practices. Facilitates oversight of  financial reporting  practices, global  compliance and ethics  programs, and risk  management programs  including enterprise risk  management to ensure  compliance of our  processes which underpin  prudent"
"decision making  across the company. Supervises executive  compensation and the  performance-based  components of the  company’s incentive  programs. Facilitates  oversight of human capital  management. Exercises, as necessary  and as permitted, the  authority of the full board  of directors in between  meetings.  Sustainability across our business Our executive leadership team (ELT) is responsible for developing corporate strategy, including implementing sustainability  efforts. Our Sustainable"
"Development Leadership Team (SDLT), which is comprised of global business unit (BU) presidents  and functional department heads, is responsible for managing sustainability in their businesses and functions including SD  focus areas, goals, priorities, action plans and results.  Operations and leadership teams within our BUs and across functions are responsible for integrating sustainability into their  day-to-day operations, project development and decision making. To support consistency across"
"our global operations,  subject matter experts collaborate in issues working groups (IWGs) focused on climate, water, biodiversity and social issues  to leverage global cross-functional expertise from each BU. They meet quarterly to discuss risks, risk mitigation challenges  and best practices, and to align on consistent practices. Linking compensation to sustainability performance Executive and employee compensation is linked to sustainability performance through our annual Variable Cash"
"Incentive  Program (VCIP). This annual cash incentive is based on company success on critical performance metrics, including Energy  Transition Milestones and Strategic Milestones that are aligned with SD priorities and, combined, are weighted to account  for 20% of the total potential VCIP payout. In 2024, the VCIP included demonstrating progress toward our Plan for the Net- Zero Energy Transition and implementing action plans for priority environmental and social risks and tracking progress"
"against mitigations. Beginning with the VCIP commencing in 2025, the Energy Transition Milestones metric is consolidated into the Strategic  Milestones metric, which will be weighted to account for 20% of the total potential VCIP payout. With sustainability and  emissions intensity targets firmly ingrained into how we operate and evaluate new opportunities, these milestones will now  be evaluated alongside other strategic priorities set by the company. Read more about how compensation is linked"
"to  sustainability performance in our Proxy Statement. Policies and positions Our company has policies and positions that guide our approach to sustainability including our Code of Business Ethics and  Conduct and Supplier Expectations. View all related policies and positions on our website.  Business ethics and compliance training and reporting Our reputation and integrity depend on every ConocoPhillips employee — and those working on our behalf — assuming  personal responsibility for business"
"conduct. With oversight from our Chief Compliance Officer, our Global Compliance and  Ethics team maintains adherence with applicable laws and the highest ethical standards, promotes a positive corporate  reputation, reduces criminal and civil liability, and sets the tone for an ethical work environment across the company. The  team includes local ambassadors who are embedded in BUs and functions and help support and administer our Global  Compliance and Ethics program. Our external auditor"
"annually reviews aspects of our compliance and ethics program relevant to financial reporting while our  internal audit function and external compliance experts periodically audit global compliance and ethics processes. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Governance and our approach 5  Managing sustainable development risks Our commitment to sustainability includes identifying, assessing and managing SD risks through a process that is  mandatory, auditable and an annual requirement for BUs"
"and select corporate functions.  Input and guidance are provided by our corporate Long-Range Plan (LRP) and SD Risk Management Standard. Results of the  risk assessment are used to inform the corporate enterprise risk management (ERM) process and key business-planning  processes for the company, including our overarching corporate strategy. Read more about how we manage climate, nature and social-related risks. LRP and corporate strategy We integrate climate-related risks into our corporate"
"strategy via the LRP, which enables us to test our portfolio against  climate-related risk scenarios to support informed decisions. Our LRP forecasts key data related to portfolio development  and performance, production, costs and cash flow. We also forecast GHG emissions, carbon cost, low carbon capital spend,  planned or possible GHG reduction projects and water volumes. This data serves as a critical input for understanding our  environmental impact and the potential risks associated with"
"planned business activities as well as emissions reduction  opportunities.  The objective of our Climate Risk Strategy is to manage climate-related risks, optimize opportunities and equip the company  to respond to changes in key uncertainties, including government policies around the world, technologies for emissions  reduction, alternative energy technologies and changes in consumer trends. This strategy informs our choices around  portfolio composition, emissions reductions, targets and"
"incentives, emissions-related technology development, and our  climate-related policies and finance sector engagement. To better understand long-term risk and mitigation options during  the energy transition, we utilize four main energy transition scenarios that incorporate a wide range of possible outcomes for  energy and carbon emissions to help shape our analysis and consideration of potential policy, technology and market risks.  Read more about our Climate Risk Strategy. ConocoPhillips"
"Sustainability Report 2024 Governance and our approach 6 Sustainable development risk management process Implementation  and integration Action  plan Risk  ranking Risk  assessment Execute action plans  and integrate into  Enterprise Risk  Management (ERM)  process. Develop action plans  for risks with line of  sight to BU goals. Evaluate likelihood,  consequence severity,  and time horizon. Assess climate, nature  and social-related risks.  SD Risk Management Standard The SD Risk Management"
"Standard supports a consistent approach to identify social and environmental risks, conduct risk  ranking and develop mitigation action plans. The scope of the SD Risk Management Standard includes physical and  transition risks for climate change and nature. It also encompasses both operational and transition-related social risks  associated with stakeholder engagement, human rights and social investment, as well as supply chain risks. To facilitate  consistent risk identification and"
"categorization across BUs and functions, the standard is supported by a guideline and risk  assessment tool to evaluate potential consequence severity, likelihood, and near, mid and long-term timing for each risk. The  standard mandates developing action plans for risks ranked “significant” or “high” and summarizing them in the corporate  SD Risk Register. Risks and action plans are tracked and managed at the BU, function or project level.  Enterprise risk management Items on the corporate SD"
"Risk Register are shared with owners of relevant enterprise risks, including climate, capital  markets, public perception, operational matters, corporate strategy and policy. These enterprise risk owners, who are ELT or  senior managers, are also briefed on associated risk ranking, corporate actions and mitigation activities, demonstrating the  relative significance of SD risks in relation to other enterprise risks. The ERM process is a direct input into our strategic  planning process. By"
"identifying major cross-cutting risks and trends, we closely link action plan efforts to key performance  issues and address and mitigate identified risks. Enterprise risks are presented annually to both the Audit and Finance  Committee (AFC) of the board and the full board of directors. About our reporting Reporting frameworks and scope We report our sustainability performance using internationally recognized reporting standards and continue to assess other  emerging frameworks amid a changing"
"market and regulatory landscape. Our reporting is guided by the industry standards  set out by Ipieca, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and the International Financial Reporting Foundation (IFRS) which  includes the International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB), Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB)  standards and Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations. Our reporting also follows the API Template 2.0 for GHG Reporting, the AXPC ESG"
"Metrics Framework and Template and  takes guidance from evolving nature-related frameworks.  We are also continuously evaluating the implications of evolving sustainability regulations on our reporting choices. The 2024 Sustainability Report covers data from January 1 to December 31, 2024.  In November 2024, ConocoPhillips  completed the acquisition of Marathon Oil Corporation, an independent oil and gas exploration and production company with  operations in multiple basins in the Lower 48, as"
"well as Equatorial Guinea. Read more about the scope, methodologies and boundary of our data reporting. Read more about our approach to data  quality and assurance. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Governance and our approach 7  Stakeholder engagement We engage our stakeholders in a range of ways as we work to improve performance. The table below identifies our  stakeholders, shared priorities and engagement approach. Issue identification and prioritization We continuously evolve our"
"sustainability reporting priorities by considering the most pressing issues affecting stakeholders  and our industry.  Through meetings, correspondence, and a review of publicly available materials, we gather opinions and input from key  external stakeholders (e.g., investors, banks, rating agencies, community members and leaders, policymakers and  regulators) to further identify reporting priorities. Based upon this collaborative approach, we regularly review a list of  potentially important"
"issues across a range of topics including governance, environment and social. We conduct a priority issues assessment to identify and prioritize our reporting topics. Participants include subject matter  experts (SMEs) from key functions within the company who provide further insight and prioritize topics based on level of  interest or concern to key stakeholders and strategic importance to the company.  This process helps determine the significance of sustainability topics. The issues covered"
"in this report reflect discussions  with SMEs from across our company, findings from primary and secondary research, the feedback we received, and insights  we gained through our ongoing engagement with stakeholders.  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Governance and our approach 8 Key stakeholder priorities and engagement areas Financial sector Communities Governments Suppliers Employees Priorities • Climate change • Transition risk • Nature • Human capital • Local employment and"
"economic development • Indigenous rights • Environmental  responsibility • Community impacts • Training and education • Safety and emergency  response • Climate change and  environmental  protection • Energy supply • Economic development  and job creation • Regulatory  enforcement • Taxes and royalties • Safety and  performance  expectations • Cost efficiencies • Alignment with  climate risk and  sustainable  development  expectations • Compensation and  benefits • Career development • Safety,"
"health and well- being • Environmental  responsibility • Company strategy Engagement • Investor presentations  and conferences • Analyst calls • Annual shareholder  meetings • SEC filings • Financial sector  outreach • Websites and social  media • Community investment  programs, local  business and  employment  opportunities • Community  consultations and  meetings • Owner relations • Volunteering • Direct advocacy and  policy development • Industry and trade  association  representation •"
"Regulatory compliance,  audits and permit  reviews • Regional developments • Bid process • Project  management • Direct leadership  collaboration • Performance management • Training and development • Safety meetings • Code of Conduct and  Ethics Helpline • Employee communications,  surveys, town halls,  network groups,  volunteering and field  visits • Global wellness programs  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Governance and our approach 9 2024 priority issue Issue description"
"Economics, governance and strategy1 Low carbon technologies Assessing and advancing low carbon business opportunities. SD governance process Having a comprehensive governance framework, including oversight from the Board of Directors, to  manage SD risks and opportunities. Business ethics Adhering to applicable laws and the highest ethical standards. Transparency and corruption Promoting transparency to reduce corruption, improve government accountability and foster economic  stability."
"Resilient portfolio Focusing on low cost of supply and low GHG intensity resources that meet global energy demand. Environment Carbon policy Considering legislation, regulation and demand risk. Energy efficiency Reducing the amount of energy required to find and produce natural gas and oil. Greenhouse gas emissions Reducing operational GHGs emitted during natural gas and oil production. Methane Reducing methane emitted during natural gas and oil production. Flaring  Reducing emissions caused by"
"flaring during natural gas and oil production. Physical climate risk Addressing associated risks that may impact facilities, operations, communities and/or supply chain. Biodiversity Mitigating impacts from activities and operations on species, habitats or ecosystems. Produced water Managing discharge, disposal and/or recycling of produced water for offshore and onshore operations  including potential impacts to receiving environments including seismicity. Water sourcing Managing fresh water"
"sourcing by considering the local, social, regulatory, economic and environmental  conditions. Value chain Assessing risks and opportunities related to environment, including GHGs, biodiversity and water in the  value chain (supply chain and commercial). Non-operated assets Assessing risks and opportunities related to environment, including GHGs, biodiversity and water. Social Stakeholder engagement Engaging with local stakeholders and Indigenous Peoples to understand their interests, concerns"
"and  culture, seeking solutions that create mutually beneficial relationships and integrating those into  planning and decision making. Community investment Investing in communities to support giving categories including education, natural resources, health and  safety, arts, civic and social services, and disaster relief. Human rights Implementing human rights policies and practices that promote respect for civil, cultural, economic,  political and social rights. Local content Creating economic"
"stimulus in the communities where we operate through job creation and  socioeconomic development initiatives. Safety and health Creating and maintaining a safe and healthy workplace. Supporting our people Attracting and retaining talent, offering training and development for workers to build capability and  career opportunities while promoting diversity, equity and inclusion. Supply chain Assessing risks related to due diligence. Just transition  Considering social impacts, risks and"
"opportunities associated with an energy transition. Community impact  Considering potential project and cumulative impacts and risks to communities, including vulnerable  communities. Non-operated assets  Assessing risks and opportunities related to communities and stakeholders, including project and  cumulative impacts and human rights. 1 Other aspects of corporate governance are fully addressed in our Annual Report and Proxy Statement.  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing"
"climate-related risks 10 Checking equipment at  our Surmont oil sands  development in Canada Managing  climate- related risks  We use our Climate Risk Strategy to help us manage climate-related risks, optimize opportunities and equip the company to  respond to changes in key uncertainties, including government policies around the world, emissions reduction technologies,  alternative energy technologies and changes in consumer trends. The strategy guides our choices around portfolio  composition,"
"emissions reductions, targets, incentives, emissions-related technology development, and our climate-related  policy and financial sector engagement. Our goal is to support an orderly transition that matches supply to demand and  focuses on returns on and of capital while safely and responsibly delivering affordable energy. Our Climate Risk Strategy is supported by a comprehensive governance framework that extends from the board of directors  through executive and senior management to the"
"working levels in each of our BUs. Read more about our sustainability  governance. 2024 performance summary ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing climate-related risks 11 We have a robust climate-related risk framework that consists of strong governance, strategic  capability, risk management processes and disclosure to demonstrate resilience across a range of  future scenarios. The energy transition will be complex, with many possible pathways and  uncertainties and likely to"
"evolve at different times, at different paces, in different regions. We aim to  align our actions with shareholder interests for long-term value and competitive returns. Strategic  Flexibility Portfolio  Composition • Continued to focus our portfolio on low cost of supply and low GHG intensity resources that meet future energy demand. • Completed Marathon Oil acquisition adding low cost of supply and low GHG intensity inventory to our diverse portfolio.  • Continued to test our portfolio against"
"future energy transition scenarios, including one aligned with limiting warming to 1.5 degrees. Scope 1 and Scope 2 Emissions Targets and Reductions Methane • Reduced methane emissions intensity by ~60% since 2015. • Progressed methane emissions reduction activities in support of our target to achieve near-zero (1.5 kg CO2e/BOE or approximately 0.15%  of natural gas produced) methane emissions intensity by 2030 and introduced data quality improvements. • Participated in OGMP 2.0 to improve"
"methane measurement and reporting transparency and had the distinction of being one of only three  U.S.-based operators to achieve the Gold Standard for emissions reporting. • Piloted several monitoring technologies and tailored our emissions monitoring strategy and reduction priorities based on OGMP 2.0  findings. Flaring • Remained on schedule to meet the World Bank Zero Routine Flaring goal by the end of 2025 (excluding heritage Marathon Oil assets).1 • Progressed evaluation of total flaring"
"intensity target. Overall GHG • Supported our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions intensity reduction target of 50-60% by 20302 by progressing our approved Scope 1  and Scope 2 GHG emissions reduction projects within the allotted capital and cost budget. • Reduced total gross operated GHG emissions intensity by ~45% since 2016. • Began the process of integrating heritage Marathon Oil assets into our climate-related risk framework, assessing data quality with field  surveys and inventory"
"verifications, and planning to integrate heritage Marathon Oil assets into future OGMP 2.0 implementation plans. Offsets • Updated guidelines for company participation in the voluntary carbon market, strengthening our due diligence requirements. • Increased our investment in the Climate Asset Management Nature Based Carbon Fund. • Evaluated and executed purchases for offsets from a diversified range of projects. Business Opportunities LNG • Advanced our global LNG strategy through regasification"
"and sales agreements. – Developing the resource: Continued upstream E&P projects to support LNG plants in Australia, Qatar and Equatorial Guinea. – Securing market access: Signed sales and regasification agreements in Europe and Asia, which offer placement opportunities for Port  Arthur, Mexico and other offtake volumes. – Continuing to build toward an aspirational 10-15 MTPA commercial LNG portfolio. Low carbon  opportunities • Continued to evaluate low carbon opportunities for future"
"competitive investment: – Monitored and pursued maturing technologies which enable hard-to-abate emissions reduction optionality. – Engaged with local stakeholders, collected and analyzed technical information, began permitting, and assessed viability of CO2  sequestration. – Suspended a blue ammonia opportunity due to market immaturity and pace required for commercial investment. – Progressed evaluation of potential low carbon power projects, including enhanced geothermal systems, through"
"regional screening  studies in multiple U.S. states, market analysis and techno-economic evaluation. – Continued participation in Canada’s Oil Sands Pathways Alliance working to reduce emissions through carbon capture and  sequestration (CCS). 1 Per the World Bank’s Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 initiative, “Oil companies that endorse the Initiative will develop new oil fields they operate according to plans that incorporate  sustainable utilization or conservation of the field’s associated gas"
"without routine flaring. Oil companies with routine flaring at existing oil fields they operate will seek to implement  economically viable solutions to eliminate this legacy flaring as soon as possible, and no later than 2030.” 2 Using a 2016 baseline for both gross operated and net equity emissions.  Strategy Our Climate Risk Strategy is intended to enable us to responsibly meet the global demand for energy, deliver competitive  returns on and of capital and work to meet our previously"
"established operational emissions-reduction targets. First,  meeting global energy demand requires a focus on delivering production that will best compete in any energy demand  scenario. This production will be delivered from resources with a competitive cost of supply and low GHG intensity, as well  as portfolio diversity by market and asset type. Next, our focus is on delivering superior returns through the cycles based on  our foundational principles of balance sheet strength, peer-leading"
"distributions and disciplined investments. Finally, to drive  accountability for the emissions that are within our ownership, we are progressing toward our Scope 1 and Scope 2  emissions intensity targets and we have a longer-term operational emissions net-zero ambition. Key elements of the Climate Risk Strategy include:  • Strategic flexibility and portfolio composition – Building a resilient asset portfolio with a focus on low cost of supply and low GHG intensity to meet global energy  demand."
"– Committing to capital discipline through use of a fully burdened cost of supply, including cost of carbon, as the basis  for capital allocation. – Testing our portfolio against future energy demand scenarios through a comprehensive scenario planning process that  helps us assess the resilience of our corporate strategy to climate risk. • Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions targets and reductions – Setting targets for emissions over which we have ownership and control. – Reducing emissions through"
"the marginal abatement cost curve process. • Business opportunities – Building an attractive LNG portfolio as an important component of responsibly meeting global energy demand due to  LNG's opportunity to displace higher-emissions fuels such as coal for electricity generation. – Evaluating potential investments in emerging alternative energy sources and low-carbon technologies. • External engagement  – Advocating for a well-designed, economy-wide price on carbon and engaging in development of"
"other policy and  legislation to address end-use emissions. – Working with our suppliers and commercial partners to reduce emissions along the value chain. Read more about our Climate Change Position, our company governance and our approach to net-zero. Scenario planning at ConocoPhillips The scenarios we have developed describe possible pathways leading to a particular outcome. Scenarios are hypothetical  constructs and are not predictions or forecasts of what we think is going to happen; they"
"are used to illustrate which factors  drive future developments. We use scenarios in our strategic planning process to: • Gain better understanding of external factors that impact our business to assist in the identification of major risks and  opportunities and inform mitigating actions. • Identify leading indicators and trends. • Test the resilience of our strategy across different business environments. • Communicate risks appropriately. • Inform how we position our business, as technologies"
"and markets evolve, to capitalize on opportunities that meet risk  and return criteria. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing climate-related risks 12  Using scenarios enables us to understand a range of risks around potential commodity market prices associated with  various GHG emissions reduction scenarios. To assist our capital allocation decisions, we can test our current portfolio of  assets and investment opportunities against these future possibilities and identify where"
"strengths and weaknesses may  exist. We use a range of analyses, input and information when developing our strategy. The detail of our scenarios gives insight  into the analysis we use to inform our strategic decision making and reinforces to stakeholders and shareholders that we are  both preparing for reductions in GHG emissions and developing resilient strategies that reflect the complex and uncertain  range of energy futures.  In 2024, we used four main energy transition scenarios  in our"
"global energy model: Pre-Pandemic Trends,  Moderate Transition, Accelerated Transition and 1.5  Net Zero. The four scenarios incorporate a wide range  of possible outcomes for energy and carbon  emissions. While these scenarios extend to 2050, well beyond  our near-term operational planning period, they give  insights on trends that could have an implication for  near and medium-term decisions and enable choices  on the creation or preservation of future options. Each scenario models the full"
"energy system including  coal, oil, natural gas, solar, wind, geothermal and  nuclear, as well as their related GHG emissions and  pricing policies. Each of these plausible pathways is  designed to stretch our thinking about potential rates  of new technology adoption, policy development and  consumer behavior. The scenarios describe four pathways out of the  myriad that are possible, given the uncertainty  surrounding the development of future energy  markets to 2050. They do not describe all"
"possible future outcomes and are not used as a reliable indicator of the actual  impact of climate change on the ConocoPhillips portfolio or business. In addition to using the four scenarios to analyze potential outcomes, we regularly monitor key signposts as we work to  track the pace and direction of the energy transition and identify potential leading indicators of change in the demand for  hydrocarbons. In this way we aim to establish not just which scenario we are moving toward, but also to"
"identify emerging  disruptive scenarios. This analysis is presented to executive management and the board of directors to assist in strategic  decision making. Read more about our sustainability governance. The thoughtful application of scenarios in strategic planning is core to our ability to navigate future uncertainty and is a  practical way of conveying this information in a decision-useful manner. The key to scenario planning is the use of a wide- enough range to characterize uncertainty,"
"rather than trying to correctly guess specific future variables or parameters. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing climate-related risks 13 Projected global energy-related  CO2 emissions Gigatonnes per year   Scenario descriptions Scenario Key assumptions Carbon taxes (in 2024 dollars) Energy demand Oil and gas  demand growth  2023-2050 Pre-Pandemic  Trends • Government policies for carbon  emissions remain globally  uncoordinated.  • Technologies evolve at a  gradual pace and"
"current modes  of transportation and power  generation remain the lowest  cost, most efficient avenues for  energy consumption and  generation.  • Carbon taxes are introduced at a  moderate rate in OECD countries,  rising to only $30/tCO2e in 2050. • Non-OECD countries do not  implement carbon pricing by  2050. • The global oil market grows by 30%  over 2022’s 100 MMBOD level,  driven by solid economic growth  and a lack of competitive  alternatives. • Natural gas demand increases by  more than"
"70% compared to 2022,  reaching 680 BCFD as growing  economies utilize more natural gas. 49% Moderate  Transition • Moderate advances in  national level carbon pricing  policies and alternative  energy technologies, with  incremental shifts in  consumer preferences for  low-carbon products. • Carbon taxes go into effect  across OECD countries during the  mid-2020s and are $25/tCO₂e in  2030, rising to $60 in 2050.  • China implements its proposed  national carbon pricing policy at  50% of the"
"OECD carbon fee.  • No other non-OECD country  implements a carbon pricing  policy prior to 2050. • Global oil demand plateaus in the  early to mid-2030s at around 110  MMBOD and then declines very  slowly, remaining above current  levels through 2050. • By 2050, the global gas market  expands by 40% from 2022 levels.  The primary driver for natural gas  demand growth is power  generation, followed by hydrogen  production. • Captured carbon grows to 2.6  gigatonnes per annum in 2050. • Total"
"hydrogen market expands to  250 million tonnes per annum in  2050. 22% Accelerated  Transition • Accelerated deployment of  established low-carbon  technologies, such as  intermittent renewables and  electric vehicles. • Increased focus on structural  and fuel efficiencies. • Significant reductions in battery,  wind and solar generation costs  through economies of scale, and  rapid deployment of grid  infrastructure, catalyzed by a  more favorable regulatory  environment and reduced  permitting"
"timelines.  • Economy-wide carbon pricing  goes into effect across OECD  countries during the mid-2020s  and is $30/tCO2e in 2030, rising  to $100 in 2050.  • China implements an economy- wide carbon pricing policy at  50% of the OECD price. • Non-OECD countries impose a  low $5/tCO2e price by 2030. • The global oil market peaks in size  by 2028 and remains near that level  until tapering more quickly in the  mid-2030s.  • The global natural gas market  grows at an average annual rate of  0.7%"
"until peaking near 430 BCFD  in 2040 and slowly declining  thereafter. • Captured carbon increases to 4  gigatonnes per annum by 2050. • Advances in renewables-powered  hydrogen technology expand the  hydrogen market to around 350  million tonnes per annum by 2050. -6% 1.5 Net Zero1 • Key technological  breakthroughs and rapid global  policy coordination. • Significant technological  advances in low-carbon,  dispatchable, high-capacity- factor power generation, long- duration energy storage, and"
"carbon removal.  • Enhanced geothermal systems  (EGS), small modular reactors,  and nuclear fusion all reach  commerciality before 2040. • OECD countries and China  implement a transparent  economy-wide carbon price  mechanism by 2025 which rises  from $50/tCO2e in 2030 to $200  by 2050.  • Other non-OECD nations follow  by imposing economy-wide  carbon prices of $10/tCO2e in  2030 rising to $50 by 2050. • Global oil demand peaks in 2025  and declines to 50 MMBOD in 2050. • The natural gas"
"market is much  more resilient in this scenario in  comparison to oil as natural gas is  needed as a lower-carbon fuel for  reliable, dispatchable electricity  generation. Global natural gas  demand peaks in 2030. • Captured carbon plays a critical  role in emissions reduction,  expanding to 6 gigatonnes per  annum by 2050. • Hydrogen market grows to around  430 million tonnes per annum in  2050.  -44% 1 The 1.5 Net Zero scenario is designed to reach net-zero emissions in the energy sector by"
"2050. The remaining carbon budget of 600 gigatonnes of cumulative CO2 emissions  from 2020 to 2050 is in line with a 1.5-degree warming target before 2100 with a slight temperature overshoot around the middle of the century. See IPCC AR6 Synthesis Report  (2023). ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing climate-related risks 14  Our scenarios have a wide range of assumptions  regarding technological advances, government policies  (e.g., carbon prices) and consumer behaviors leading to"
"a  range of oil and natural gas prices. We take this future  price uncertainty into account in our strategy by using a  fully burdened cost of supply as our primary criterion for  capital allocation. Our cost of supply compares  favorably to the expected commodity prices detailed in  our own scenarios as well as external scenarios such as  the IEA’s Net Zero Emissions scenario. The scenarios are designed to address transitional risks.  A separate scenario process addresses physical climate-"
"related risk using consultant scenarios based on the  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)  modeling. Resilience Resilient portfolio Our ability to address climate-related risks and meet future energy demand will depend on our ability to deliver competitive  returns on and of capital. Our sector-leading approach focuses on the cost of supply of our portfolio, committing to balance  sheet strength and moderating growth by holding to disciplined reinvestment rates.   Oil and natural"
"gas are projected to remain essential parts of the energy supply mix in coming decades across a broad range  of future demand scenarios. We intend to maintain our key market role through remaining competitive and resilient to  transition-related risks in any scenario by providing low-cost, low-GHG intensity production by asset type with continuously  improving sustainability performance. Portfolio diversification The mix and location of the resources in our portfolio provide flexibility and"
"adaptability as we monitor scenarios and global  trends. Our short-cycle shale project times and capital flexibility enable us to redirect capital to the most competitive basins.  Our extensive low cost of supply resource base allows us to divest higher cost assets to high-grade our portfolio as our  strategy evolves. This applies to both hydrocarbon mix and geographic region. If policy in a country or region significantly  impacts cost of supply, we can shift capital to other opportunities."
"One example of portfolio diversification is the significant expansion of our LNG portfolio in recent years through our  increased interest in Australia Pacific LNG (APLNG) and participation in joint ventures with QatarEnergy. These projects have  a low cost of supply and low GHG emissions intensity on a life cycle basis and align with our view that LNG is expected to  play an increasingly important role in helping meet future energy demand, with its lower GHG intensity compared to burning  coal"
"for power generation. ConocoPhillips has long been a participant in the LNG business, utilizing our commercial capabilities to develop and supply  markets. We believe that U.S. LNG is well placed to provide reliable, lower emissions intensity energy to European and Asian  markets. Our investment in the Port Arthur LNG project also allows for optionality for future offtake from expansion trains  and access to excess cargos from equity investments. Read more about these projects in the LNG"
"section.  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing climate-related risks 15  Cost of supply and capital allocation The cost of supply of our resource base is important because  we believe that resources with the lowest cost of supply are  most likely to be developed in scenarios with lower demand,  such as the IEA’s Net Zero Emissions Scenario. Cost of  supply is the West Texas Intermediate (WTI) equivalent price  that would generate a 10% after-tax return on a point- forward and fully"
"burdened basis. In our definition, cost of  supply is fully burdened with capital investment, foreign  exchange, price-related inflation, G&A and carbon tax (if  currently assessed). If no carbon tax exists for the asset,  carbon pricing aligned with internal energy scenarios is  applied. Cost of supply is the primary metric that we use for  capital allocation and it has the advantage of being  independent of price forecasts. Providing low cost of supply  also addresses a key component of"
"supporting future  energy demand — reliable and affordable energy supply.    To assist our capital allocation decisions, we test our  current portfolio of assets and investment opportunities  against future possibilities and identify strengths and  weaknesses that may exist. As a result of our strategy and  scenario work, we have focused capital on resources with  low cost of supply, exiting deep water and high emissions  intensity gas fields while increasing our investments in  unconventional"
"oil projects. In recent years we have high-graded our portfolio and  applied stringent capital allocation criteria that direct  investments to resources that will best match future energy  demand. We are equally focused on developing assets that  have a low cost of supply and low GHG intensity, as these  are most likely to compete in any future energy transition  pathway with each asset type contributing to its unique  market (e.g., unconventionals, LNG, oil sands). Based on our  current"
"forecasts, assets with less than 10 kg CO2e/BOE are  projected to represent a larger portion of our portfolio by  2030. In addition, the cost of supply of our portfolio performs competitively against expected commodity prices across a  range of future scenarios. On November 22, 2024, we completed the acquisition of Marathon Oil, adding high-quality, low cost of supply inventory  adjacent to our leading U.S. unconventional position. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing climate-"
"related risks 16 GHG emissions intensity of gross operated production Chart shows gross operated production as a percentage of the company portfolio  arranged by GHG intensity. 2030 data is estimated from forecasts current as of August  2024 and are subject to change. Oil prices by IEA scenario1 $/BBL Stated  Policies2 Announced  Pledges3 Net Zero  Emissions4 Temperature  Outcome (°C) 2.4 1.7 1.5 USD 2024 Real  Terms in 2030 81 74 43 USD 2024 Real  Terms in 2040 79 65 31 USD 2024 Real  Terms in"
"2050 77 60 26 1  2023 IEA prices inflated to 2024 dollars. 2 Stated Policies Scenario: No new policies.  3 Announced Pledges Scenario: Net-zero pledges.  4 Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario.   Carbon price We use assumptions of carbon pricing to navigate GHG regulations, drive culture shift, encourage energy efficiency and  low-carbon investment, and stress test investments. In 2024, the company used a range of estimated future costs of GHG  emissions for internal planning purposes, including"
"an estimate of $60 per tonne CO2e as a sensitivity to evaluate certain  future projects and opportunities. The base case for project approval economics and planning includes either the forecast of  existing carbon pricing regulations or our current probability-weighted energy transition scenario for that jurisdiction,  depending on which is higher. Where there is no carbon price regulation, we use the current transition scenario for that  jurisdiction. We also run two sensitivities:  • With only"
"existing carbon pricing regulations, to reflect near-term cash more accurately.  • With a sensitivity of $60 per tonne CO2e to act as a stress test to reduce the risk of stranded assets should climate  regulation accelerate.  This ensures that both existing and emerging regulatory requirements are considered in our planning and decision making.  Near, medium and long-term risks As described in the risk management section, we evaluate and track our climate-related risks through our SD Risk"
"Register  and Climate Change Action Plan. Those risks broadly fall into the categories of transition risks (including climate-related  policy and emissions management) and physical climate-related impacts. Our planning time horizons are developed according to the time required to realize the majority of the net present value of  our projects and the time we expect it will take for the risks to potentially manifest. Our GHG forecasting and financial  planning processes are used to determine risks"
"and opportunities that could have a material financial impact for each  period.  • Near-term, one to five years: Complete short-cycle drilling campaigns and small projects. Our near-term climate-related  risks are generally government policy-related and managed at the business unit level through policy advocacy and  technology to reduce emissions. • Medium-term, six to 10 years: Complete most major projects and revise our portfolio if required. Medium-term risks take  longer to impact our"
"business and may include emerging policy that is not yet fully defined. These risks are managed by  business unit planning but, if significant, may also be managed by corporate strategies and company-wide risk  assessments. • Long-term, 11 years and beyond: Generally, long-term risks are managed by our scenario analysis and Climate Risk  Strategy, as they include long-term government policy, technology trends and consumer preferences that affect supply  and demand. They may also include risks"
"that align with long-term physical climate scenarios. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing climate-related risks 17  Time horizon Risks Potential impact Near-term 1-5 years Aligns with short  cycle drilling and  small projects Transition risks Climate change policy, including carbon tax • Mandated carbon pricing in various jurisdictions where we  operate – Canada: Alberta Emissions Management and Climate  Resilience Act and Technology Innovation and Emissions  Reduction (TIER)"
"Regulation – Canada: British Columbia Greenhouse Gas Industrial  Reporting and Control Act (GGIRCA) and Output Based  Carbon Pricing System – EU: European Union Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) – Norway: Norway Carbon Fee & EU ETS allowances • Carbon pricing adds increased operational costs and would  be a factor impacting product demand. • Incentivizes GHG reductions. • EU Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM) seeks to  put a price on carbon for carbon-intensive traded goods. The"
"transition phase for the CBAM began in October 2023,  during which importers began reporting emissions data to  the EU. • While oil and gas production is currently outside of CBAM, a  review of industries to consider including in the future is due  at the end of the transition phase in 2025. GHG emissions regulations Examples • EPA’s New Source Performance Standards (OOOOb) and  Emissions Guidelines (OOOOc) finalized in early 2024 for  U.S. assets. • The final rule could result in additional"
"capital expenditures  and compliance, operating and maintenance costs. • EPA’s sub-part W regulations. • The final rule could result in additional capital expenditures  and compliance, operating and maintenance costs. • EU Methane Regulation was adopted in 2024 to reduce  methane emissions in the energy sector across Europe. • Potential impacts to price realizations for LNG and crude  marketing imports and increased costs associated with  reporting burden. Medium-term 6-10 years Aligns with"
"major  project timelines  and ability to  adjust portfolio Transition risks Emerging policy • Carbon pricing policy or regulations that are not yet fully  defined in regions we operate. • Carbon pricing and/or regulations adds increased  operational costs and would be a factor impacting product  demand. • Incentivizes GHG reductions. Access to capital markets • Changing preferences of stockholders, financial institutions  and other financial market participants. • Potential limited or"
"discontinued investments, insurance and  funding to oil and gas companies. • As public pressure continues to mount on the financial  sector, our costs of capital may increase. Physical risks Climate-related physical changes • Impacts on permafrost • Fresh water constraints • Wildfire • Severe weather • Increased costs in both design and operation as well as  potential business interruption from severe weather events. Long-term 11+ years Aligns with  scenario analysis Transition risks Market risk"
"• Our business may be affected by long-term government  policy, technological advances and consumer preferences  that affect supply and demand for oil and gas. • Lower sales volumes and/or margins due to lower demand  for oil and gas products. Physical risks Chronic and acute physical climate changes • Our facilities and operations could potentially be impacted  by more frequent extreme weather events (flooding,  drought, wildfire and storms) and chronic hazards (rising  temperatures and sea"
"levels). • Increased costs in both design and operation as well as  potential business interruption from severe weather events. Read more about our SD Risk Register. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing climate-related risks 18  Responding to climate-related risks Our SD risk management process ensures that a Climate Change Action Plan is developed to track mitigation activities for  responding to significant and high climate-related risk included in the corporate SD Risk Register."
"This plan includes details  about our commitments, related responsibilities, resources and milestones over several years. Actions within the plan address individual risks identified by our BUs or global/regional risks identified by our central  corporate staff. For example, some chronic and physical climate-related impacts are more likely to apply to a single  business unit, given the specific local nature of the risk and geographical location of our assets. As part of annual updates to the"
"register, we evaluate the action plan and its effectiveness and make decisions to continue  mitigation measures, add new measures or simply monitor the risk for further developments. Read more about our Risk Management Process. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing climate-related risks 19 Climate Change Action Plan Risk topics Mitigation actions and milestones Climate change  policy, including  carbon taxes • Review global emerging issues with the Sustainability and Public Policy"
"Executive Council (SPEC) on a regular basis. • Work with Climate Leadership Council and API Climate Working Group to develop U.S. carbon tax framework; advocate for a carbon  price. Engage in other industry working groups to provide input to federal consultation on border carbon adjustment policies. • Directly engage governments on evolving climate policy and monitor policy developments. • Use carbon price in base case long-range planning and forecasting; maintain GHG forecasting practice. •"
"Support effective incentives for emissions reductions, including tax and production credits and protocols for use of carbon credits  and offsets. • Maintain diversified portfolio of offsets and monitor market convergence. GHG emissions  regulations • Continue regulatory advocacy efforts around methane and flaring, and support enactment of cost-effective federal methane  regulations on new and existing sources that would preserve a state’s ability to adapt implementation to local conditions. •"
"Explore new technology solutions and facility improvements to meet methane and flaring reduction targets. • Work with industry trade groups and task forces to respond to proposed GHG regulations. • Determine European Union Methane Rule requirements for global oil, natural gas and LNG markets. Create compliance plan and  methodology guidelines, and pilot a model to validate emission estimates. GHG emissions  reductions and  business  opportunities Overall GHG • Design and develop new facilities"
"with lower emission footprints. Focus on operational efficiency globally to reduce GHG intensity. • Continue implementation of corporate Climate Risk Strategy and continue integration of BU emissions reduction approaches. • Improve GHG data collection efforts and advance MACC emissions reduction projects. Continue to assess transformational  technology pilots. Methane and flaring • Continue emissions monitoring program while prioritizing emissions abatement. • Participate in OGMP 2.0 Methane"
"Partnership to mitigate emissions. • Execute U.S. flare reduction plans. Electrification • Increase internal engagement on electrical and grid power needs across the company to manage electricity-related planning,  including power availability. • Evaluate geographic-based power profiles to optimize infrastructure strategy, such as substation expansions and new construction. • Engage with industry and legislative regulatory groups to communicate anticipated grid needs. Technologies • Explore"
"carbon mitigation pathways through novel technology and investments. • Consider partnering with future zero-carbon energy project developers to power our operations where operationally and  economically feasible and monitor new opportunities. Acute and chronic  physical risks Assessment • Continue to include physical climate risk in SD risk management process. • Develop global physical risk assessment guidelines for BUs and continue with ongoing review cycle. • Implement guidelines to asset-"
"specific climate risk assessments. Fresh water constraints • Build infrastructure to increase water storage and supply. • Conduct streamflow forecasting and monitoring, including influence of temperature on flow. Permafrost thaw • Continue assessment of risk of permafrost thaw for construction of new infrastructure and implementation of mitigation measures.  • Investigate effective approaches for monitoring permafrost. • Continually review and update engineering and design specifications,"
"including equipment and site maintenance. Wildfire  • Participate in desktop regional wildfire annual risk assessment and mitigation planning efforts and execute emergency response  plan exercises, drills and training for wildfire threats. • Implement and execute safety barriers and controls to enable facility and personnel protection in the case of fire and advance  warning of potential wildfire threats.  Business opportunities LNG ConocoPhillips has a 60-year history of leadership in LNG and"
"LNG technology. While LNG is still considered part of our  traditional oil and gas business, its prominence is increasing in global energy markets. We view LNG as an important  component of responsibly meeting energy demand in the coming decades. The use of natural gas in place of coal and refined products represents a specific opportunity for significant reductions in  end-use GHG emissions across the globe and it is a key contribution to meeting projected energy demand growth. We  expect LNG"
"to play an increasingly important role in the global energy mix, as it has lower GHG emissions than traditional  hydrocarbon resources like coal used for electricity generation.1 We have producing equity LNG facilities located in Australia, Qatar and Equatorial Guinea. We also have a 30% direct equity  holding in the Port Arthur LNG (PALNG) facility, which is scheduled to start up in 2027. As part of our LNG strategy to build a  dynamic LNG portfolio and expand our footprint across the LNG value"
"chain, we have LNG offtake due to start up in the U.S.  Gulf Coast and the west coast of Mexico with approximately 7.4 MTPA, and currently have a total regasification capacity of  5.2 MTPA at terminals in Belgium, Germany and the Netherlands. We continue to progress discussions across all major LNG  producing and consuming regions and markets to further add high-quality positions to our portfolio. We aspire to build a  10-15 MTPA commercial LNG portfolio which includes both an increase in supply"
"offtake and regasification sales. We are the second-largest LNG liquefaction technology provider globally. Our Optimized Cascade® LNG liquefaction  technology has been licensed for use in 28 LNG trains around the world, with FEED studies ongoing for additional trains. In 2024, we supplied Asian markets with approximately 0.34 trillion cubic feet (or nearly 1 billion cubic feet per day) of  natural gas and LNG. To put this in perspective, if all the natural gas and LNG we sold to Asia in 2024 had"
"been used to  replace coal for electricity generation, GHG emissions would have been reduced by approximately 20 million tonnes, 25%  more than the company’s combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions for the year, based on EPA GHG emissions factors.2 Low carbon opportunities Established in early 2021, our Low Carbon Technologies (LCT) organization’s remit includes supporting operational emissions  reductions objectives, monitoring global efforts to reduce emissions and prioritizing lower carbon"
"opportunities for future  competitive investment. In 2024 this included:  • Reducing operational emissions through monitoring, measurement, retrofits, new designs, and reporting at both a source  and site level. • Assessing the use of carbon capture and sequestration (CCS) to reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. • Securing high-quality nature-based and technology offsets to mitigate residual, hard-to-abate emissions. • Suspending our blue ammonia project on the Gulf Coast due to market"
"immaturity and the pace required for commercial  investment. • Evaluating potential low carbon power projects including enhanced geothermal system opportunities, and exploring  electrification efforts at many of our operations. • Evaluating other opportunities that have significant adjacency to our skill sets, through the lens of competitive returns.  Advancing emerging technologies by participating in joint industry partnerships and pilots. Geopolitical factors have changed substantially over"
"the last five years as global priorities have shifted. This underlines the  importance of monitoring signposts and adjusting our business accordingly. Our evaluation suggests that further market  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing climate-related risks 20 1 Natural gas and the environment — U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) 2 Calculation based on gas production, heating values and average emission factors for natural gas and coal associated with combustion of end"
"product for power generation.  maturity, market adoption and related policies and regulations remain uncertain for commercial scale use of hydrogen and  CCS. We will continue to approach low-carbon efforts with the same discipline we follow in our traditional business investment  and capital allocation process. This includes keeping costs low, leveraging competencies, identifying viable economic  opportunities, and anticipating and managing risks while focusing on projects with competitive"
"returns potential. In our Canada BU, the Surmont CCS initiative advanced with the completion of early stage engineering. Project efforts  included definition of capture systems for boiler flue gas and the development of the technical and economic foundations.  This initiative forms a cornerstone of our carbon capture strategy, supporting long-term emissions reductions and regulatory  alignment in both base and future assets. Significant momentum was also achieved through our involvement in the"
"Pathways Alliance CO₂ transportation and storage  project. During the reporting period, engineering contributions and commercial support were provided to help progress a  regional CCS project and support Canada’s broader climate objectives. Reducing Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions As part of the climate-related risk framework we adopted in 2020, we  calculate key metrics and use targets to estimate and monitor our  performance and progress in managing climate-related risks and opportunities  in"
"line with our strategy and risk management process. These include: • GHG emissions intensity target. • Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. • Metrics for methane and flaring. We believe these metrics and targets are the most useful in managing climate- related risks and opportunities and monitoring performance. Our 2024  emissions decreased compared to 2023 (on a gross operated basis) due to  several factors,3 including the incorporation of updated Lower 48 field-wide  survey data allowing for use of"
"more accurate emission factors, the removal of  pneumatic devices through abatement projects, and flare management  improvements.  • Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions intensity decreased to 22.4 kg CO2e/ BOE. • Methane intensity decreased to 3.2 kg CO2e/BOE.  • Flaring intensity decreased to 27.5 MMCF/MMBOE (total flaring volume per total production).   We remain on track to achieve our 2030 GHG and methane emissions intensity reduction targets. Our target framework for near and medium-term"
"targets is set on an intensity basis. Intensity targets better apply to the  exploration and production sector’s dynamic business environment where plans, technology, prices, industry structure and  costs all change rapidly. Intensity targets are more durable and allow a company to change plans to maintain a competitive  portfolio without also having to repeatedly reset targets. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing climate-related risks 21 3 In support of our company reporting"
"practices that are based on the data principles from the World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting  Standard. SCOPE 1 — Direct GHG  emissions from sources owned or  controlled by ConocoPhillips.  SCOPE 2 — GHG emissions from  the generation of purchased  electricity consumed by  ConocoPhillips.  SCOPE 3 — All other indirect  GHG emissions as a result of  ConocoPhillips activities, from  sources not owned or controlled  by the company, including"
"emissions from the end use of oil  and gas products by consumers.   Read more about our approach to net-zero. Our targets inform internal emissions reduction efforts at the business unit level and support innovation on efficiency,  emissions reduction, GHG regulatory risk mitigation and climate-related risk management throughout the life cycle of our  assets. All data presented herein is from January 1 to December 31, 2024 and does not include data from heritage Marathon Oil  assets. Footnotes"
"to our performance metrics outline the scope and methodologies of our data reporting. The minimum  boundary for reporting on environmental priorities is the assets we operate. Current and updated targets and ambitions are  outlined in near, medium and long-term timeframes. Our progress to date has not included the use of voluntary offsets. In 2024, we updated our methodology and adjusted the global warming potential (GWP) value used for our emissions  calculations. GWP values, published by the"
"IPCC, are used to convert methane and nitrous oxide emissions to carbon dioxide  equivalents (CO2e). We used the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report (AR5)4 for this conversion; the Fourth Assessment Report  was used previously. This adjustment was made to align with most reporting methodologies used in the regions we operate,  and is aligned with the GHG Protocol. This change was applied to our 2016 baseline target year, our 2019 baseline target  year for methane, as well as our 2024 data, as is"
"standard practice, to ensure consistency between baseline year and future  target years. Metrics impacted by this change are noted in the performance tables and in the GHG and methane sections. Performance metrics for heritage Marathon Oil assets acquired in November 2024 are presented separately in the  performance tables, and include data from Nov. 22 - Dec. 31, 2024, in alignment with the acquisition closing date. Read more about the principles surrounding our approach to target setting and"
"our measurement, reporting and verification  practices.  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing climate-related risks 22 4 The Global Warming Potential (GWP) of methane (CH₄) issued by IPCC is: AR4 = 25, AR5 = 28. We have committed to multiple targets for reducing operational (Scope 1 and Scope 2) emissions over which the  company has ownership. Our targets are: • Reduce GHG emissions intensity to 50-60% by 2030 on both a gross operated and net equity basis from a 2016  baseline. •"
"Achieve near-zero methane emissions intensity by 2030. • Reduce methane emissions intensity by 10% by 2025 from a 2019 baseline. • Achieve a target of zero routine flaring by the end of 2025, five years sooner than the World Bank initiative’s  goal of 2030 (excluding heritage Marathon Oil assets). Our Performance metrics section provides the metrics included in this section in tabular format. Our metrics are also linked to key frameworks such as SASB, GRI/Ipieca/UNGP and ISSB.  Emissions"
"reductions targets and performance1 What we’ve done What we are doing Achieved target-related GHG intensity reductions, from a 2016  baseline: • 45% reduction on a gross operated basis • 36% reduction on a net equity basis Executing projects to reduce GHG emissions intensity to 50-60%  by 2030, on both gross operated and net equity basis from 2016  baseline.  • Improving both green and brownfield facility designs to reduce  GHG emissions in our Lower 48, Alaska and Canada assets. Achieved an"
"approximate 64% methane emissions intensity  reduction from 2015 with an intensity of 3.2 kg CO2e/BOE.2 Progressing toward our near-term and medium-term methane  intensity targets. Reduced routine flaring to 4 MMCF at end of 2024. Progressing our target of zero routine flaring by 2025 (excluding  heritage Marathon Oil assets) and evaluating development of a  total flaring intensity target for 2030. Received OGMP 2.0 Gold Standard Reporting designation3 in  recognition of achieving Level 5 for"
"97% of our operated assets’  reported methane emissions, a full three years ahead of the  program requirement. Continuing methane measurement efforts and reducing overall  emissions through our MACC projects. Progressed projects to remove pneumatic devices from our  Lower 48 operated assets with a year-over-year reduction of  60% pneumatic emissions.  Continuing to evaluate low carbon opportunities across our  portfolio. 1 Excludes heritage Marathon Oil assets. 2 While 2019 is the formal"
"baseline for our methane emissions intensity target, we also compare performance to 2015 to show longer-term progress. 2015 is an important milestone  year for international organizations like the UN-led Oil and Gas Methane Partnership 2.0 that aim to achieve a 45% methane emissions reduction by 2025 from 2015 levels. 3 OGMP 2.0 “levels” refer to increasing reporting requirements and additional granularity. Level 3 includes reporting of emissions by detailed source type based on generic"
"emissions factors. Level 4 emissions are based on source-level measurements and often calculated using site-specific emission factors and activity factors. Level 5, the gold  standard for reporting, includes measurement at the site or facility level and reconciliation with Level 4 source-level reporting estimates. Frequently Asked Questions | The Oil &  Gas Methane Partnership 2.0 GHG emissions Performance In 2024, our total gross operated GHG emissions were  approximately 16.4 million tonnes, a"
"5.7% decrease  compared to 2023. The decrease between 2023 and 2024  incorporates the results of updated field-wide inspection  surveys, and includes the removal of pneumatic devices, and  flaring management improvements, primarily in our Lower 48  assets. These decreases offset emissions from increased  activity and production in the Lower 48, Montney in Canada,  Greater Ekofisk in Norway, Alaska’s North Slope, and APLNG. Note that the increase in emissions reflected between 2022  and 2023 was"
"a result of data improvements for methane  emissions. This included corrected pneumatic equipment  counts and classifications as well as expanded flare  downtime monitoring in the Bakken and Permian. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing climate-related risks 23 Total gross operated GHG emissions1 Percent of total company Methane  (CO2e) | 14% CO2 from imported  electricity | 6% CO2 from  operations | 80% 1Based on Jan., 1, 2024 to Dec. 31, 2024 data. N2O represents only about 0.1%"
"of our gross operated emissions  and is not included here.  Target progress We have a target of reducing our GHG intensity target by  50-60% reduction by 2030 from a 2016 baseline. The target  covers Scope 1 and Scope 2 gross operated and net equity  emissions. Our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions and  emissions intensity calculations directly measure our  performance and help us understand climate-related risk.  Lower intensity assets are more resilient to policy, legal,  technology and market"
"risk. The company has already progressed toward meeting this  target over the past several years. Between 2016 and 2024,  we achieved a 45% intensity reduction on a target-related,  gross operated basis through a combination of specific  emissions reduction projects and portfolio changes. From  2024 to 2030, continued capital allocation actions are  expected to have a combined impact of lowering GHG  emissions intensity by roughly 5-15% as we increase  production from assets with low intensity,"
"such as those in  the Permian Basin, and achieve reductions from near-term  projects. Our progress to date has not included the use of  voluntary offsets.  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing climate-related risks 24 Gross operated GHG emissions changes Million tonnes CO2e Total gross operated GHG emissions  and intensity1 GWP AR5 adopted for 2016 and 2024 1 The Global Warming Potential (GWP) values from the Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) of  the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate"
"Change (IPCC) were adopted in 2024 to align  with most reporting methodologies used in the regions where we operate, and in  alignment with the GHG Protocol. This adjustment applies exclusively to the metrics for  the year 2024 presented in the performance tables, and to our 2016 baseline target year  for GHG intensity, as is standard practice, to ensure consistency between base year and  future target years. As a result of this adjustment, the company total gross operated GHG  emissions changes"
"for the baseline year 2016 have been revised from 26.8 to 27.4 million  tonnes of CO2e. Similarly, the values for 2024 have been updated from 16.2 to 16.4 million  tonnes of CO2e. Gross operated pathway to 50-60% intensity reduction target kg CO2e/BOE GWP AR5 adopted for 2016 and 2024  The target includes emissions that are related to production and excludes emissions from our aviation and polar tankers  fleets. This may give rise to small differences between the intensity we report for our GHG"
"target purposes and the intensity  we report for our annual metrics. Since 2019, this difference has been less than 2%, or 1 kg CO2e/BOE. Assuming a stable portfolio is maintained between now and 2030, our 2030 gross GHG intensity target implies a reduction in  absolute GHG emissions of 48% between 2016 and 2030. Net equity and non-operated emissions In addition to progress against our operational GHG  emissions intensity target, we are also working toward  reducing our net equity GHG emissions"
"intensity. Our  target-related net equity emissions were 5% higher in  2024 compared to 2023, at 20.8 million tonnes CO2e due  to the additional equity acquired at our Surmont asset in  the fourth quarter of 2023 and the inclusion of emissions  from small non-operated assets. This corresponds to a  target-related net equity intensity of 29.0 kg CO2e/BOE.  About 43% of our net-equity emissions are from non- operated assets. Because we approach our company's emissions reduction  targets as a"
"shared challenge, we look to influence our  joint operating partners’ climate risk strategies and GHG  targets and align our emissions reduction activity. We  engage with our major operating partners to align on  approaches to managing climate-related risk.  Our Non-Operated Asset Working Group’s goal is to align  on ways of working with non-operated partners, meet our  company strategic objectives, and exchange knowledge  on best practices and levels of engagement. These  opportunities will"
"deepen our understanding of non- operated partners’ operational directions and targets and  allow us to engage with partners on specific emissions  reduction initiatives and frameworks as a response to  regulatory, social and stakeholder pressures.   Net equity emissions are calculated based on the equity  share approach as defined in “The Greenhouse Gas  Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard  (WRI)” and we request GHG emissions data from our  partners on an annual basis. In"
"certain cases, we obtain  the required information from regulatory reports.  Additionally, we calculate emissions based on asset- specific emissions intensities and our equity share. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing climate-related risks 25 Net equity  GHG  emissions1 Equity based  non-operated 43% Equity based  operated  57% Net equity pathway to 50-60% intensity reduction target kg CO2e/BOE GWP AR5 adopted for 2016 and 2024 1Based on Jan., 1, 2024 to Dec. 31, 2024 data."
"Methane Performance In 2024, estimated methane emissions totaled 2.3 million  tonnes of CO₂e and constituted approximately 14% of  our total GHG emissions. As of year-end 2024, we have  achieved an approximate 64% methane emissions  intensity reduction from 2015 with an intensity of 3.2 kg  CO2e/BOE.5 The decrease in estimated emissions  between 2023 and 2024 is primarily a result of efforts in  our Lower 48 assets to improve emission calculation  methodologies by incorporating updated field-"
"wide  survey data, remove pneumatic devices, and improve  flare management. Year over year reduction of  pneumatic emissions is approximately 60% in the Lower  48. A turnaround in Surmont resulting in facility  downtime also contributed to the overall decrease. Target progress We have both a near-term and medium-term target6 for  reducing methane emissions:  • By 2025: Meet a 10% methane emissions intensity  reduction target by 2025 from a 2019 baseline.   • By 2030: Achieve a near-zero methane"
"emissions intensity by 2030. This near-zero target is defined as 1.5 kg CO2e/BOE or  approximately 0.15% of natural gas produced.   In 2023, there was an increase in estimated emissions which can be attributed to improved data quality and demonstrates  our commitment to incorporating the best available information from our assets and the importance of transparency. While  this may potentially impact our 2025 methane intensity target, we continue to monitor progress against the target, and we"
"are maintaining line of sight to our 2030 target. With regulatory reporting changes phasing in over 2024 and 2025, there  remains some uncertainty over near-term methane emissions levels. Our path to near-zero methane emissions by 2030  includes: • Maintaining sound operating practices, including aerial and ground-based surveys for leak detection to identify fugitive  emissions events. • Focusing on eliminating pneumatics.  • Minimizing flare downtime.  • Managing emissions from thief hatches."
"• Participating in OGMP 2.0 with a focus on mitigation. • Evaluating and executing emissions reduction opportunities including our methane-related MACC projects. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing climate-related risks 26 5While 2019 is the formal baseline for our methane emissions intensity target, we also compare performance to 2015 to show longer-term progress. 2015 is an important milestone year  for international organizations like the UN-led Oil and Gas Methane Partnership"
"2.0 that aim to achieve a 45% methane emissions reduction by 2025 from 2015 levels. 6These targets include emissions that are related to production and exclude emissions from our aviation and polar tankers fleets. 6.1 1.9 1.8 3.3 2.3 2015 2019 2022 2023 2024 Total gross operated methane emissions1 Million tonnes CO2e GWP AR5 adopted for 2019 and 2024 1 The Global Warming Potential (GWP) values from the Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) of  the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) were"
"adopted in 2024 to align  with most reporting methodologies used in the regions we operate, and in alignment with  the GHG Protocol. This adjustment applies exclusively to the metrics for the year 2024  presented in the performance tables, and to our 2019 baseline target year for methane,  as is standard practice, to ensure consistency between base year and future target  years. As a result of this adjustment, the company total methane emissions changes for  the baseline year 2019 have been"
"revised from 1.7 to 1.9 million tonnes of CO2e. Similarly,  the values for 2024 have been updated from 2.1 to 2.3 million tonnes of CO2e.  The Oil and Gas Methane Partnership 2.0 Joining the initiative In July 2022, ConocoPhillips joined the Oil and Gas Methane Partnership (OGMP) 2.0 initiative, a voluntary, public-private  partnership between the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), the European Commission, the Environmental  Defense Fund and oil and gas companies. OGMP 2.0 has emerged"
"as a globally recognized framework for methane  emissions measurement and reporting and is aimed at minimizing methane emissions from global oil and gas operations. We  are committed to improving the transparency of our methane emissions reporting and delivering on our methane reduction  objectives and targets by collaborating with industry peers to accelerate best practices in our operations. Ultimately,  reporting through OGMP 2.0 will help us make better informed decisions about where to"
"prioritize our efforts to have the  maximum impact on reducing our emissions footprint. Implementing our plan OGMP 2.0 “levels” refer to increasing reporting requirements and additional granularity.   • Level 3 includes reporting of emissions by detailed source type based on generic emissions factors.  • Level 4 emissions are based on source-level measurements and often calculated using site-specific emission factors and  activity factors.  • Level 5, the gold standard for reporting, includes"
"measurement at the site or facility level and reconciliation with Level 4  source-level reporting estimates.1 1FAQ – OGMP 2.0 Approach As part of OGMP 2.0, we committed to reporting methane emissions from both operated and non-operated assets, according  to our reporting boundaries, and we submitted our first OGMP 2.0 Implementation Plan in May 2023. At that time, a majority  of the emissions from our assets were reported at Level 3. In 2023 and 2024, we implemented a measurement campaign"
"involving sampling hundreds of sites across Lower 48, Alaska, Canada, Australia and Norway at a mix of facilities, including  large, complex sites, batteries/facilities and well pads. Results from these sampled sites were used to inform asset-level  totals. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing climate-related risks 27 Gross operated methane intensity progress kg CO2e/BOE GWP AR5 adopted for 2024  While our measurement campaign spans global assets, our Lower 48 team is leading the"
"effort since a majority of company  methane emissions are from Lower 48 assets, and learnings from these assets can be leveraged for other operating areas. Results and impacts to reported data Our results to date are generally consistent with other published studies and included findings such as: • Most of our emissions come from a small percentage of sources, with a few high-emission events accounting for a large  portion of the inventory. • Emissions from sources like pneumatic devices were"
"smaller compared to previous regulatory-based estimates. • The difference between top-down emissions and bottom-up emissions was dependent on basin; neither measurement  type yielded consistently higher emissions across basins. • In basins where the top-down emissions were higher, it was often a result of higher emissions from episodic events. We do not consider that the measurement technologies will yield exact representations; we use our results to evaluate  mitigation approaches rather than"
"determine precise quantifications. As we continue our Level 5 reporting, we anticipate  that measurement technologies will continue to improve. In the interim, we expect our measurement-informed emissions estimates to differ from EPA and other regulatory reported  emissions. However, increased emissions estimates from better measurement-informed practices are not likely to impact  our ability to achieve our 2030 GHG intensity target given our robust emissions reduction approach and focused"
"monitoring  efforts on the most impactful emissions sources. Next steps After submitting our implementation plan in 2023, we were awarded OGMP 2.0’s Gold Standard Pathway designation7 in  recognition of achieving Level 5 for 97% of operated assets’ reported methane emissions, a full three years ahead of the  program requirement. In the International Methane Emissions Observatory 2023 Report, we were recognized as “leading  performance at Level 5”; “ConocoPhillips’ reporting is best in class this"
"year. The company conducted an outstanding data  reconciliation analysis that yielded a robust Level 5 estimate of their emissions for all material operating assets. This is  noteworthy as it was achieved in year 2, ahead of the required deadline for operated assets and a strong signal to other  companies of what is possible.” We will continue to advance methane measurement efforts, including:  • Focusing on the most impactful and cost-effective reductions, including those reductions informed by"
"OGMP 2.0  measurements. • Continuing our measurement program for source-level and site-level measurements in 2025 and beyond.  • Continuing to progress reporting across our material assets as asset materiality changes due to acquisitions, divestitures,  and methane mitigation efforts. • Engaging with non-operating partners and OGMP 2.0 members for industry-wide improvement in methane measurement  and reporting. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing climate-related risks 28 7 OGMP"
"2.0 “levels” refer to increasing reporting requirements and additional granularity. Level 3 includes reporting of emissions by detailed source type based on generic emissions  factors. Level 4 emissions are based on source-level measurements and often calculated using site-specific emission factors and activity factors. Level 5, the Gold Standard for  reporting, includes measurement at the site or facility level and reconciliation with Level 4 source-level reporting estimates. FAQ – OGMP 2.0"
"(ogmpartnership.com)  Flaring Performance Flaring is a safety-related process for the controlled release and burning of natural gas during oil and gas exploration,  production and processing operations. Flaring is required to safely dispose of flammable gas released during process  upsets or other unplanned events and to safely relieve pressure before performing equipment maintenance. Flaring is also  used to control and reduce emissions of volatile organic compounds from oil and condensate"
"storage tanks. In 2024, the total volume of flared gas was 20.2 BCF, a decrease of 8% from 2023. The decrease was primarily attributable  to reductions from our Lower 48 operations, including removal of flares and increased vapor recovery unit coverage  allowing more gas to be captured rather than flared. We anticipate flare volumes to increase in 2025 with the inclusion of  heritage Marathon Oil assets. Target progress ConocoPhillips is committed to the World Bank Zero Routine Flaring by 2030"
"initiative, a program that aims to create  consistency among governments, the oil and gas sector and development institutions to address flaring.8  We support the World Bank Zero Routine flaring by 2030 initiative and remain on schedule to meet a target of zero routine  flaring by the end of 2025 (excluding the recently acquired heritage Marathon Oil assets). We continue to make strong  progress on this goal, as routine flaring has been reduced to 4 MMCF as of the end of 2024. We achieved this"
"through active  well management to shut-in wells during capacity constraint events and working closely with third-party gas offtake  providers to ensure sufficient capacity. Other projects focus on treatment of sour gas, flare capture and de-bottlenecking. While total flaring emissions make up only approximately 13.3% of our total Scope 1 GHG emissions, the target drives  continued near-term focus on routine flaring reductions across our assets. In addition to our near-term routine flaring"
"target, we are exploring the development of a total flaring intensity target for  2030.  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing climate-related risks 29 8 Routine flaring is defined as flaring of associated gas that occurs during the normal production of oil in the absence of sufficient facilities to utilize the gas onsite, dispatch it to a  market or reinject it. Flaring for safety reasons, non-routine flaring or flaring gas other than associated gas is not included as part of the"
"World Bank Zero Routine Flaring initiative. Total flaring volume and intensity 1,030 111 13 4 2021 2022 2023 2024 Routine flaring Million Cubic Feet  Research and development Technology will play a major role in addressing GHG emissions, whether through reducing emissions or lowering the energy  intensity of our operations or value chain. As discussed in our Collaboration and Engagement section, we participate in a  number of research and industry initiatives, including the Pathways Alliance"
"Inc, the MIT Energy Initiative, and the Colorado  School of Mines Global Energy Future Initiative (GEFI). In 2021, ConocoPhillips joined the Pathways Alliance Inc., which represents six of Canada’s largest oil sands producers. Its  other members are Canadian Natural Resources, Cenovus Energy, Imperial, MEG Energy and Suncor Energy. The ambition of  the alliance is to progress toward reducing Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions from oil sands operations to help Canada  meet its climate goals with"
"the use of carbon capture and storage. ConocoPhillips is partnering with the members of the  Alliance and governments to accelerate emissions reduction efforts. Financial support, regulatory approvals and advances  in technology are critical to advancing this ambition. Another way we support technology development is through our annual marginal abatement cost curve (MACC) process  which identifies and prioritizes our emissions reduction opportunities from operations based on the project’s"
"breakeven cost  of carbon ($ per tonne CO2e reduced). This data helps identify projects that might become viable in the future through  further research, development and deployment. As a result of this work, we have focused our near-term technology  investments on reducing both costs and emissions where feasible.   Our approach to net-zero In 2020, we adopted a climate-related risk framework that included a target to reduce operational Scope 1 and Scope 2  emissions intensity by 2030, as well as"
"an ambition to further reduce those emissions to net-zero by 2050. While we remain  on track to achieve our target of reducing emissions intensity by 50-60% by 2030, we are discontinuing the timeline  associated with our operational net-zero ambition. When we first announced the net-zero ambition, we recognized its associated challenges and uncertainties, and we  described how changes to regulatory, market and technology conditions might impact our ability to achieve it. While we  continue to"
"support global efforts to reach net-zero, recent signposts observed and incorporated within our Global Energy  Scenarios have led us to remove the 2050 timeline from our ambition. This adjustment reflects current societal,  technological and economic realities, as well as evolving stakeholder expectations. Since announcing the ambition, we have made strides in our understanding of the emissions reduction landscape and the  market conditions that underpin it. We set our operational net-zero"
"ambition noting that low-carbon technologies and  markets were still in early stages of development and with the understanding that governments would continue to develop  policies in line with their Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs), facilitating an orderly energy transition. However,  development of both low-carbon technologies and climate policy have progressed more slowly than expected, as countries  balance emissions reductions with energy availability, security and affordability."
"Despite these challenges, we remain  committed to pursuing our nearer-term 2030 target in tandem with a longer-term operational net-zero ambition. Many uncertainties continue to influence the timeline associated with achieving net-zero across the globe. Examples  include:  • Technical and economic feasibility of nascent low carbon investments, technologies and markets and the pace of  development of currently undeveloped technologies. • Country-level climate policy. • The size and composition of"
"future energy demand driven by the world’s population and its per capita energy  consumption. • Permitting and regulatory changes that may impact ability to execute current or future plans. • Pricing, verifiability, availability and acceptability of offsets and the development of related market mechanisms. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing climate-related risks 30  • Potential revisions to emissions estimates and reduction goals as measurement technologies advance. The degree"
"and pace at which these uncertainties are addressed will determine the timeline associated with achieving our  operational net-zero ambition. We will continue to monitor signposts that may point to a realistic and feasible timeline to  inform future assessments of the ambition. In the meantime, we continue to monitor global efforts to reduce emissions, and we will advance our Climate Risk Strategy  with a specific focus on eliminating methane sources, reducing flaring and delivering our 2030"
"emission intensity targets.  The core component of our strategy remains the same—stay the course on reducing Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions  intensity and continue building a low cost of supply, low GHG intensity portfolio. Pathway to net-zero operational emissions1 Emissions intensity (kg CO2e/BOE) Near-term (2025) • Zero routine flaring by end of 20252 Medium-term (2030) • Reduce GHG intensity 50-60% (from 40-50%)³ • Near-zero methane intensity target (1.5 kg CO2e/BOE) Long-term (future state)"
"• Net-zero operational emissions ambition¹ 1 Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions on a gross operated and net equity basis.  2 Achieving a target of zero routine flaring by end of 2025, five years sooner than the World Bank initiative goal of 2030.  Excludes heritage Marathon Oil assets.  3 Reduction from a 2016 baseline.  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing climate-related risks 31  Addressing Scope 3 emissions  Scope 3 reporting We calculate Scope 3 emissions using the Greenhouse Gas"
"Protocol and the Ipieca 2016 Estimating Petroleum Industry Value  Chain (Scope 3) Greenhouse Gas Emissions methodologies based  on net equity production numbers. We report the four largest  categories of Scope 3 emissions that apply to our  operations. Scope 3 emissions include CO2, methane (as CO2e)  and nitrous oxide (as CO2e) for the four material categories of  Scope 3 emissions that apply to our operations. For oil and natural gas exploration and production companies, Scope 3 emissions fall"
"primarily into the “use of sold  products” category. Though we do not control how our total production is ultimately processed into consumer products, we  make the conservative assumption that the majority of production is ultimately burned as fuel by end users. We use the API  Compendium GHG emissions factors for crude oil and natural gas burned as fuel. This method accounts for all possible GHG  emissions that could be associated with end use of our production. Our assumptions and method are"
"especially conservative  when the “double counting” issues inherent in Scope 3 estimations for an exploration and production company are taken  into account. Read more about how we address our Scope 3 emissions. We conservatively calculate the other three categories of Scope 3 emissions by taking our entire equity volume of crude  and natural gas and applying the relevant transportation, distribution and processing emissions factors from academic life  cycle analyses, including the 2022 S&P"
"Global The Right Measure: A Guidebook to Crude Oil Life-cycle GHG Emissions  Estimation, and the 2024 National Petroleum Council Charting the Course: Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions from the  U.S. Natural Gas Supply Chain. In 2024, Scope 3 emissions increased in line with overall net production.”9, 10 Carbon price policy engagement Demand-side emissions reduction efforts are required for climate goals to be achieved because supply-side constraints  alone would be ineffective in reducing global"
"emissions. Our advocacy efforts are aligned with our focus on reducing Scope  1 and Scope 2 emissions and supporting sensible policies that reduce Scope 3 emissions. ConocoPhillips believes a well- designed pricing regime on carbon emissions is the most effective tool to reduce GHG emissions across the global economy  and, in particular, to address Scope 3 end-use emissions. We continue to advocate for policies aligned with our carbon  pricing principles as well as effective and efficient"
"regulatory actions. A revenue-neutral carbon tax that is transparent, predictable and cost-effective to administer would be an effective policy  option. It should result in some relief via the elimination of other laws and regulations aimed at reducing or controlling  carbon and other GHG emissions. It is also the best way to regulate methane. Carbon pricing policy should support the  implementation of currently economic emissions reduction projects and provide support for innovation to"
"encourage the  development of currently uneconomic projects. A price on carbon would also provide a stable and predictable market signal  that would impact investment flows and end-user choices in a manner that minimizes adverse local economic and social  impacts related to future energy demand. Building on our history of constructive engagement related to the issue of end-use emissions, we continue to devote  significant time and effort advocating for a well-designed federal price on carbon"
"directly through engagement with  government legislators and regulators in all jurisdictions in which we operate, and indirectly via collaboration with trade  associations that are aligned with our strategy.  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing climate-related risks 32 9 We calculate our Scope 3 emissions on an equity share basis. Our Scope 3 calculations should not be compared to other companies who may calculate their emissions using different  organizational boundaries,"
"covering different Scope 3 categories, and using different calculation methodologies. 10Heritage Marathon Oil’s Scope 3 emissions were estimated for the post-acquisition period, totaling 3 MM tonnes CO2e for Category 11, Use of Sold Products. Scope 3 source 2024 estimated  million tonnes CO2e Upstream transportation 2 Downstream transportation 7 Processing of sold products 17 Use of sold products 236  To advance our position, ConocoPhillips joined the Climate Leadership Council (CLC) in 2018 as"
"a Founding Member. Since  joining the CLC, our Executive Leadership Team and Government Affairs staff have participated in well over 100 bipartisan  meetings with members of Congress and the administration. We support and are advocating for a carbon price contingent upon four pillars: a gradually increasing carbon price, carbon  dividends for all Americans, border carbon adjustments and regulatory simplification. We also recognize the policy trend in  the U.S. toward a regulatory approach, and"
"we advocate for effective and efficient regulations and legislation to advance  economic incentives and reduce GHG emissions. We continue to seek opportunities to advocate for additional policies  aligned with our carbon pricing principles, including a carbon dividends plan. In 2021, ConocoPhillips was accepted as a Private Sector Partner within the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC), a  global voluntary partnership run by the World Bank to share and expand the evidence base for"
"effective carbon pricing  policies. Participation in the CPLC further demonstrates our commitment to carbon pricing and is complementary to our  engagement with the CLC. Since 2022, we have also worked closely with members of the Business Roundtable (BRT) and the American Petroleum  Institute (API) to engage with the Voluntary Carbon Markets Initiative (VCMI), a platform for encouraging participation in a  voluntary carbon market. Through BRT and API, we worked with the architects of the VCMI to"
"develop an inclusive  framework and create space for future dialogues as carbon markets develop. Supply chain We collaborate and innovate with industry groups, peers and suppliers to integrate sustainability into our supply chain  strategies.    We engage with suppliers on the environmental and social aspects of their operations throughout the procurement process.  This includes communicating our expectations and priorities and identifying opportunities for improvement and  collaboration related"
"to climate issues, including GHG management and environmental supply chain risks.    Supplier Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions are a category of Scope 3 emissions. We have ongoing engagements with major  suppliers to seek alignment of their GHG emissions goals with our climate risk strategy. In 2024, we advanced our Scope 3 Supplier Emissions Strategy11 which is intended to help us effectively manage climate  risks and influence opportunities within our value chain. Our strategy focuses on: •"
"Identifying suppliers with high relative impact on Scope 3 supplier emissions. • Enhancing a governance framework for supplier sustainability to include Scope 3 supplier emissions.   • Annually reviewing our Supplier Expectations and updating when applicable to add to expectations associated with  climate, nature, responsible use of resources and human rights.   • Collaborating with suppliers in conjunction with industry partners like Ipieca to align on disclosure frameworks and  systems for"
"collecting and reporting supplier emissions.    Read more about our supply chain sustainability efforts.  Commercial Our Commercial organization supports ConocoPhillips sustainability initiatives by supporting emissions reduction and other  environmental initiatives and working with commercial partners to understand opportunities to reduce GHG emissions along  the value chain.   Near-term initiatives include:  • Evaluating the potential to deliver differentiated products. This includes:"
"ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing climate-related risks 33 11 Upstream Scope 3 emissions covered under the strategy include Category 1, purchased goods and services and Category 2, capital goods.  – Focusing on methane emissions reduction, measurement and verification.  – Engaging key certifiers to understand gaps between company plans and evolving certification requirements.  – Evaluating participation in the differentiated gas market.  – Monitoring regulatory and voluntary"
"initiatives for requirements related to natural gas and LNG markets.  • Identifying potential partners for electrification efforts, low carbon projects, midstream projects and emissions protocols.  • Finding allies in advocacy efforts.  • Engaging processing and transport vendors to understand value chain emissions and improve environmental  performance. Collaboration and engagement External engagement and collaboration remain areas of focus for us as we recognize the importance of advancing"
"joint  efforts to achieve meaningful emissions reductions and evolve policy solutions. In 2024, we participated in or had  membership in the following:  • World Bank Zero Routine Flaring by 2030: Initiative that aims to achieve consistency among efforts by governments, the  oil and gas sector and development institutions to address routine flaring. • The Environmental Partnership: Coalition of more than 100 oil and natural gas companies working to improve methane  emissions management. • E&P"
"Net-Zero Principles Roundtable: Facilitated by Ceres, a small group of financial sector stakeholders, E&P oil and  gas companies and NGOs, seeking to define what it means to be a Paris-aligned E&P company. • Net-Zero Business Alliance: Initiative from the Bipartisan Policy Center to bring together business leaders and frame an  affirmative and pragmatic approach in the climate solutions debate and subsequently engage with governments (as a  group and directly) to advance an aggressive climate"
"strategy that is grounded in engineering, commercial and economic  realities. • Net-Zero Company Benchmark: Engaging with Climate Action 100+ twice each year to gather feedback to strengthen  our approach to managing climate-related risk. • Natural Gas Initiative: Program led by Stanford University researchers with participation from industry, government,  intergovernmental organizations and foundations. Initiative aims to increase public access to information about the  accuracy of methane"
"detection and quantification technologies. • Pathways Alliance: Program that includes Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA) as well as the Pathways  Alliance Inc., which is an alliance of Canada’s top oil sands operators working toward emissions reductions through CCS.  ConocoPhillips was one of COSIA’s founding members. • International Emissions Trading Association (IETA): Nonprofit business organization created in 1999 to establish a  functional international framework for trading GHG"
"emissions reductions. • Climate Leadership Council (CLC): International policy institute to promote a carbon dividends framework in the U.S. • Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC): Global voluntary partnership to share and expand the evidence base for  effective carbon pricing policies. • National Petroleum Council: A federal advisory committee to the U.S. Secretary of Energy. As an NPC member, our CEO  chaired a study, conducted by over 200 stakeholders, that provided consensus"
"recommendations to reduce GHG  emissions from the U.S. natural gas supply chain. • Oil and Gas Methane Partnership 2.0: Globally recognized framework for methane emissions measurement and  reporting. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing climate-related risks 34  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing nature-related risks 35 Managing  nature-related  risks Conducting  environmental field  studies on Alaska’s  North Slope  We interact with nature, either directly or"
"indirectly, through our activities and operations.  Our sustainability management framework, which includes governance, strategy, risk  management and disclosure allows us to assess and manage nature-related risks, impacts,  dependencies and opportunities. We take actions to mitigate impacts to biodiversity and  water and we strive to create positive outcomes through contributions to conservation. Risk management Assessing nature-related risks Our SD Risk Management Standard is a mandatory,"
"auditable, annual requirement for BUs and select corporate functions.  The output informs the corporate enterprise risk management (ERM) system and key business-planning processes, including  our water and biodiversity strategies. Read more about our sustainability risk process.  A location-specific risk assessment is completed annually by operated assets and new major projects. The process is guided  by our SD risk assessment tool and considers nature-related physical risks, policy/legal risks"
"and climate change related  physical risks with potential nature impacts. Action plans are developed for significant and high risks and include measures  to mitigate risks or impacts. Nature-related risks and actions in our 2024 SD Risk Register are summarized in the table  below.  Risks Time horizon Mitigation actions1 Physical risks (BU-specific) Species, habitats,  ecosystems Near to mid-term • Integrating Indigenous Peoples priority areas into early stages of development  planning. •"
"Prioritizing collaborative research with industry and research institutions for  conservation-significant and commercially valued species. Cumulative effects  (biodiversity) Near to mid-term • Continuing engagement with Indigenous Peoples on development planning and  restoration approach.  • Implementing development planning flexibility. Produced water  disposal Near to mid-term • Completing produced water disposal capacity study. • Conducting regional pre-operational seismic screenings or risk"
"assessments.  • Progressing research to develop and pilot technologies and processes to treat  produced water for potential beneficial reuse opportunities beyond the oil and gas  industry. Policy and legal risks (global) Nature-related  policy changes and  regulations Mid-term • Engaging with organizations developing nature-related frameworks, standards,  metrics and targets directly or through Ipieca, the global oil and gas industry  association. 1 Actions relate to specific BU risks unless"
"indicated as “global.” ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing nature-related risks 36  Impacts ConocoPhillips recognizes that our activities and operations can have direct or indirect impacts on nature. The concept of  nature impact drivers offers a framework for characterizing and quantifying impacts. There are five key areas contributing to  potential impacts: 1. Land, fresh water or ocean-use change12: Our activities and operations involve the conversion of land cover or ocean"
"floor to accommodate infrastructure such as wells, pads, access roads, pipelines or marine platforms. Land or sea  conversion may result in habitat disturbance, reduced habitat connectivity and impacts on species distribution. Read  more about how we avoid, minimize, restore or offset impacts. 2. Resource use: Our activities and operations involve fresh water withdrawal and consumption. We disclose a  comprehensive set of water metrics. Read more about how we manage water-related risks.  3."
"Invasive species: Our operated assets have adopted location-specific approaches to managing invasive species in  accordance with local regulations and landowner expectations. 4. Pollution: Non-greenhouse gas (GHG) air emissions and unplanned events involving water, chemical, air or other emission  releases may result in pollution impacts. We disclose a comprehensive set of metrics, including non-GHG air emissions  and liquid hydrocarbon spills to the environment.  5. Climate change: Read more"
"about our approach to managing climate-related risks. Dependencies Our operations rely on water and our facilities design takes advantage of flood and storm mitigation provided by nature.  These are examples of ecosystem services, also called dependencies. We identify and evaluate ecosystem services for our  operated assets as part of the state of nature assessment. We also assess ecosystem services relied on by local or  Indigenous Peoples communities who live near some of our operated assets."
"Opportunities  We implement actions to mitigate impacts to biodiversity and water resources. We also work to create positive outcomes  through contributions to conservation. These include examples of opportunities for avoiding, reducing or mitigating nature- related risks. Opportunities can be implemented as mitigation measures at the BU level or as a strategic corporate priority. State of nature We assess the conditions of ecosystems and biodiversity, along with their relative sensitivity, in"
"areas where our activities  and operations contribute to nature impact drivers. This information is used to inform risk assessment and mitigation  planning. State of nature changes not only influence habitats and species but also have broader implications on ecosystem  services, which are critical to various aspects of human and economic activities.   At the BU level, our understanding of the local ecosystem condition and biodiversity importance is informed by habitat  and species distribution"
"assessments, wildlife surveys and species monitoring. At the corporate level, we use geospatial  indicators to assess biodiversity importance, ecosystem integrity and exposure to water stress. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing nature-related risks 37 12 Refers to disturbances of terrestrial land, fresh water aquatic or marine environments.  Nature-related strategy  Nature-related risks have the potential to impact our business, leading us to:  • Assess how our business impacts"
"nature.  • Identify ecosystem services we rely on.   • Implement risk reduction opportunities at the BU level or as a strategic corporate priority. We test the robustness of our nature-related corporate water and biodiversity strategies using multiple scenarios. The  objective of the assessment is to identify suitability, strengths and weaknesses of current strategies, looking at time frames  of less than three years, three to five years and five to 10 years. The scenario planning considers two"
"key uncertainties:   • Severity of habitat loss, biodiversity loss and exposure to water stress affecting nature-related risks for our operated  assets.  • Degree of alignment between regulations, policy, legal, market and reputational risks. Effect on business and strategy Nature-related risks have the potential to impact our business in a variety of ways. Our SD risk management process plays a  crucial role in identifying these risks and enables us to assess potential severity, likelihood and"
"timing. Risks characterized  as significant or high in the SD Risk Register may have the capacity to introduce risks to our business, including:  • Constraints on access: Nature-related risks may restrict our access to exploration and operational areas and/or to  essential resources like water supply, potentially leading to project delays or business interruptions.  • Production limitations: These risks can also impose restrictions on our production techniques, such as hydraulic  fracturing, or"
"limit our ability to discharge or dispose of produced water.   • Increased costs: In response to changing policies and regulations aimed at mitigating nature-related risks, we may face  heightened operational and compliance costs. • Stakeholder actions: Investors, the financial sector, or regulatory bodies may ask us to take specific actions either  through resolutions or other financial sector pressures.  External collaboration and engagement Working with external stakeholders is a key"
"component of our risk and impact management approach. We focus our  external engagement on:  • Developing industry leading practices and guidance with industry organizations.  • Collaborating with local and regional communities, peer companies and industry groups.  • Supporting research and educational initiatives.  We collaborate with the Environment, Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services and Water working groups of Ipieca, the global  oil and gas industry association for environmental and social"
"issues and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers  (IOGP). We also collaborate with local, regional and international stakeholders and industry groups across our operated  assets. Read more about local engagement initiatives on our website.  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing nature-related risks 38  Responding to biodiversity-related risks Mitigation hierarchy The mitigation hierarchy is a decision-making framework involving a sequence of four prioritized steps to"
"mitigate adverse  biodiversity impacts: Avoid, minimize, restore and offset. We use the mitigation hierarchy as a guide to manage risks and  mitigate impacts of our operations. We implement opportunities as mitigation measures to support habitat and species  conservation through strategic and proactive conservation initiatives in collaboration with partners. Avoid Some biodiversity impacts can be avoided through careful spatial or temporal placement of infrastructure or scheduling  field"
"activities outside peak migration or breeding seasons. Notable examples from 2024 include: Australia: Otway Basin  Exploration Project Because of known areas of giant crab habitat, we excluded acquisition areas from the Sequoia 3D marine  seismic survey to avoid potential disturbance of the species and the associated depleted fishery.  Consequently, the Otway exploration drilling program has also built-in avoidance of these areas. The Otway exploration program also avoids specific activities"
"during sensitive periods for culturally important  short-tailed shearwaters. The measures reduce light emissions from short-term flaring in specific areas  where it could result in disorientation when fledging. U.S. Lower 48: Permian We currently have approximately 700 acres enrolled in conservation agreements that protect the lesser  prairie chicken in Texas and over 377,000 acres to protect the lesser prairie chicken and the dunes sagebrush  lizard in New Mexico. In addition, we have enrolled"
"more than 95,000 acres in conservation agreements that  protect the endangered Texas hornshell mussel. Read more about examples of how we avoided biodiversity impacts across the globe.  Minimize We minimize biodiversity impacts through measures taken to reduce the duration, intensity and/or extent of the footprint of our  operations. Notable examples from 2024 include:   Australia: APLNG We implemented the Long-Term Turtle Monitoring Program (LTTMP), comprising annual monitoring of  flatback"
"turtle nesting at Curtis Island and Wild Duck Island. This field based program collects data on turtle  nesting and hatchlings to inform ongoing management activities. The LTTMP monitoring addresses some  significant knowledge gaps for marine turtle populations of the Gladstone region and is used to further  advance conservation efforts. At the APLNG facility, a key focus is minimizing night-time light (skyglow) which can affect nesting turtles  and hatchlings. Through proactive measures, we"
"have reviewed “over lit” areas and replaced blue-light  emitting sources with colors less obtrusive to turtles. Studies to support our initiatives created new  knowledge on how skyglow affects local flatback turtle populations. Australia: Otway Basin  Exploration Project Ongoing marine mammal surveys in the Otway Basin support effective decision-making and continue to  improve knowledge on the presence/absence, distribution and behaviors of key species. This information  supports project"
"planning to minimize operational activity during peak periods of marine fauna activity. We  make this data available to government agencies and research organizations to inform future management  programs. Canada: Surmont We worked with a Surmont area forest company to align and integrate land management for forestry  harvest blocks with future Surmont development plans, minimizing the overall footprint of our combined  industrial activity. The forest company was able to use our preexisting"
"roads to access the harvest areas  and our future development footprint has been designed to overlap with areas that have been harvested.  Norway: Greater  Ekofisk Area We completed chemical and biological analyses of samples collected for a routine sea-bed sediment  monitoring program in the Ekofisk area in 2023. The seabed sediment sampling is completed once every three  years. Analytical results showed no evidence of adverse impact from our offshore operations on the sea-bed  near our assets."
"Read more about how we minimized impacts across our asset portfolio.  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing nature-related risks 39  Restore When impacts and disturbance cannot be completely avoided or further minimized, we employ measures to restore the area  to a stable, productive and self-sustaining ecosystem through reclamation activities, considering beneficial uses of the  affected and surrounding areas. Notable examples from 2024 include:   Canada: Montney At our Montney"
"asset, we continued to work with a local Indigenous Peoples community to complete  restoration related to the British Columbia Dormant Sites Reclamation Program for 10 community-selected  sites, covering almost 40 acres. The scope of the restoration work had been developed considering traditional  knowledge, observations about key local species, the desired restored landscape, community vendors and  innovative restoration and revegetation techniques. Implementation involved joint site visits to"
"facilitate the  exchange of information on preferred restoration approaches that support traditional land use. Of the 10  locations, four have advanced to Certificate of Restoration, two are in assessment phase, and four are being  monitored to verify restoration goals. In 2024, we advanced restoration efforts at two sites with plans to  proceed at the remaining locations once abandonment and assessment activities are completed. Canada: Surmont After the reclamation and revegetation of our"
"former Surmont pilot plant site, we engaged a local Indigenous  Peoples community to assist with vegetation monitoring and weed control as part of the aim toward boreal  forest restoration. Additional planting of boreal species is planned for 2025. Company-owned lands:  Louisiana Coastal  Wetlands Since 2012, we have collaborated with Ducks Unlimited on conservation projects on company-owned lands in  the Louisiana coastal wetlands. Our conservation collaboration has supported 20 coastal"
"restoration projects,  providing direct and indirect benefits to more than 32,000 acres of coastal habitat. In 2024, restoration  efforts included terracing work in Port Fourchon and Grand Bayou. The projects involve the construction of  earthen terraces and living shorelines to improve fish and wildlife habitat and protect wetlands and  infrastructure. Company-owned lands:  Permian In the Delaware River Basin in New Mexico, we are collaborating with the Bureau of Land Management (BLM),  Texan"
"by Nature, Borderlands Research Institute and Rio Grande Joint Venture to implement conservation and  restoration projects on private lands. The Delaware River Basin faces many challenges including erosion,  sedimentation, and dwindling surface and groundwater resources resulting in reduced flows in the Delaware  River that are needed to sustain the community, industry, ecosystem and wildlife.  Read more about how we have restored habitats across our asset portfolio.  Offsets Biodiversity"
"offsets may be used for impacts or disturbances that remain after avoidance, minimization and restoration  measures have been implemented, or to address a regulatory requirement. A notable example from 2024:   Canada: Montney Mitigation actions to offset the effects of development in high value areas of the landscape are required in  the Montney area. A current offset in development proposes mitigations equivalent to 27 acres for 5 acres of  pad and road development in an “old forest” area. Key"
"values important to local communities, including  moose, fisher and ecosystem intactness, were integrated in the offset plan. Read more about examples of biodiversity offsets across our asset portfolio. Supporting conservation Contributions to conservation For almost two decades, we have implemented habitat improvement and restoration projects at some of our operated assets  and company-owned lands. These include regulatory required biodiversity offsets, strategic voluntary biodiversity offsets"
"and regulatory required compensatory wetland mitigation executed for operated assets in Alaska, Australia and Canada. On  company-owned lands in the Permian and the Louisiana Coastal Wetlands, we have implemented voluntary conservation  projects to enhance, benefit, improve or restore habitats and ecosystems. To date, our contribution to conservation is over  65,900 acres. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing nature-related risks 40  Voluntary conservation agreements Strategic"
"initiatives like voluntary conservation agreements also help to prevent adverse impacts to biodiversity and  sensitive habitats near our operations. These formal agreements with the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service and/or other federal or  state agencies include stipulations governing the timing of certain development activities within specific species habitats or  sensitive areas. In 2024, we had enrolled over 470,000 acres in voluntary conservation agreements in Texas and New  Mexico. Proactive"
"conservation Proactive conservation describes voluntary efforts with the goal of conserving or restoring biodiversity and habitats,  focusing on conservation of species, primarily in the U.S. Lower 48, before they need to be protected through government  regulations. Voluntary conservation actions benefit species that are at risk of becoming threatened or endangered in the  future as well as species already designated. Our efforts are designed to create positive outcomes by reducing impact on"
"biodiversity or nature and by contributing to restoration.  ConocoPhillips has provided long-term support for the conservation, restoration and improvement of habitats through  collaboration with our conservation partners. Since 2014, roughly 400 bird migration routes have been tracked and more  than 40 scientific discoveries have been published, enabled by funding ConocoPhillips provided to the Smithsonian  Migratory Bird Project. Working with other notable partners such as the National Fish &"
"Wildlife Foundation, Yellowstone  Forever, Pheasants Forever and Migratory Bird Joint Ventures, we supported dozens of projects in 2024 that will improve  and expand habitat size, connectivity and quality to benefit grassland bird species, large game, such as pronghorn, elk and  mule deer, fish and other aquatic species. Responding to water-related risks We manage water-related risks by considering the local, social, regulatory, economic and environmental conditions, which  are unique to every"
"basin or offshore marine area. Water risks are managed at the BU level, enabling a tailored, region- specific approach.  Read more about how we manage water-related risks.  Unconventional assets In 2024, our heritage unconventional assets included Eagle Ford, Delaware and Midland Basins in the Permian, and Bakken  in the U.S. and Montney in Canada. Unconventional production methods rely on horizontal wells and hydraulic fracturing  techniques. Notable examples from 2024 include:  U.S. Lower 48:"
"Permian To minimize reliance on local fresh water sources and because some of our Permian assets are located in  areas with high baseline water stress, we actively pursue opportunities to use recycled produced water to  hydraulically fracture new wells. In 2024, 69% of the water used for hydraulic fracturing of new wells was  recycled produced water.   ConocoPhillips entered into an agreement with Aris Water Solutions, Chevron, ExxonMobil and Coterra to  develop and pilot technologies and"
"processes to treat produced water for potential beneficial reuse  opportunities. Engineering, construction and execution of testing protocols and pilot projects are led by Aris,  leveraging the combined technical expertise of members. Pilot testing of produced water treatment  technologies began in 2023 and continued through 2024, paving the way for risk assessments for treated  produced water beneficial reuse opportunities across various applications. Canada: Montney In 2024, we more than"
"doubled our produced water storage capacity through the conversion of fresh water  dams to engineered containment ponds. Our expectation is to recycle at least 90% of the produced water for  hydraulic fracturing by 2030, lowering the relative fresh water intensity and produced water disposal.  We  also continue to leverage opportunities for sharing our treated produced water with other local operators to  offset their fresh water demand and reduce our disposal. Read more about our Montney water"
"management.  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing nature-related risks 41  Induced seismicity In 2024, we continued our long-standing support of research led by the University of Texas at Austin’s multidisciplinary  Center for Injection and Seismicity Research (CISR) to understand seismicity across Texas. We also supported seismological  research at the Stanford University Center for Induced and Triggered Seismicity.   In response to high magnitude seismicity, regulators in both"
"New Mexico and Texas have defined multiple Seismic Response  Areas (SRA) within which individual water disposal well volumes are curtailed.  ConocoPhillips leads one of the three  operator-led response groups (OLRG) in Texas. All three OLRGs have provided industry response plans to the Railroad  Commission of Texas that will mitigate future potential seismicity within their individual SRAs.  Conventional, oil sands, offshore and LNG Our diverse asset portfolio includes Alaska’s Kuparuk and the"
"Western North Slope, Australia’s APLNG facility, Canada’s  Surmont in situ oil sands operation and Norway’s offshore Greater Ekofisk area. Conventional production methods include  enhanced oil recovery (EOR) and oil sands steam-assisted gravity drainage (SAGD). Read more about examples from across  our asset portfolio. Notable examples from 2024 include:  Alaska: Kuparuk and  Western North Slope Water management in our Alaska operations is unique, as most of our fresh water use is not directly"
"for  natural gas and oil production, but primarily to build seasonal ice roads and pads for development, exploration  and overland resupply. In 2024, water for drilling mud was partially sourced from treated camp wastewater  for our Western North Slope operations.  Canada: Surmont Steam-assisted bitumen recovery at our Surmont oil sands operation is primarily supported by recycled  produced water, supplemented by an array of low-quality non-saline1 and saline  groundwater wells. These  makeup"
"water sources replace water consumed within the bitumen recovery process and are not suitable for  domestic or agricultural use with standard treatment technologies, as well as located at depths  isolated from  surface water bodies and interactions with aquatic ecosystems. Reduction in year-over-year makeup water demand has offered the opportunity to reduce the total licensed  volumes of water allocation, and since 2020, Surmont has returned 1.86 MM m3/year of water allocation to the  province"
"in support of water conservation and water use efficiency initiatives. 1 As defined by Alberta regulators. ConocoPhillips Global Water Sustainability Center 2024 marked the 14th year for our Global Water Sustainability Center (GWSC) in Qatar. The center develops innovative  solutions for water management related to oil and gas operations and programs with three main focus areas: Providing  specialized technical engineering and analytical support to our global operations and to QatarEnergy LNG,"
"conducting  applied research to qualify advanced technologies for deployment, and organizing outreach activities related to water  sustainability. One research program progressed in 2024 supports the development of beneficial reuse options of produced  water in Lower 48 operations and at the same time minimizes water volumes sent to deep well injection. The GWSC is also  conducting research to desalinate produced water waste while simultaneously generating valuable resources such as acids,"
"bases and trace metals. The GWSC is also engaged in a joint industrial project (JIP) with major oil and gas companies under the Petroleum  Environment Research Forum (PERF) for effective brine management strategies via minimum liquid discharge and/or zero  liquid discharge. In addition, numerous school children were educated in the water visitor center about water value and  exposed to various topics related to water treatment and conservation strategies. Read more about the GWSC. ConocoPhillips"
"Sustainability Report 2024 Managing nature-related risks 42  Metrics Biodiversity We collect data and information related to species occurrence and sensitive habitats located within or adjacent to our  operated assets.13 We focus on species characterized as at-risk, endangered, rare, significant, threatened or of cultural  value, and habitats characterized as sensitive by local regulators or conservation organizations as well as the International  Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) I-VI"
"protected areas. Data and information are used to develop metrics related  to protected areas, conservation and the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species.  Water We measure and report the volume of fresh water14 and non-fresh15 water withdrawn, the volume of municipal waste water  reused, and the volume of produced water16 that is reused, recycled, disposed or discharged after treatment. The data13 are  used to estimate our fresh water consumption17 intensity and exposure to water stress.18 We"
"also collect water forecast data  for our annual Long-Range Plan process which enables us to test our portfolio of projects against our water risks to make  better-informed strategic decisions.  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing nature-related risks 43 13 2024 data reported for heritage ConocoPhillips operated assets. 14 Regulatory definitions of fresh water can range from less than 1,000 to less than 4,000 milligrams per liter total dissolved solids (TDS). 15 Non-fresh water"
"includes brackish/saline groundwater with ranges between 2,000 to more than 10,000 milligrams per liter TDS and seawater with about 35,000 milligrams per liter  TDS. 16 Produced water ranges from less than 10,000 to more than 300,000 milligrams per liter TDS. 17 Calculated as total fresh water withdrawn minus total fresh water discharged. 18 Estimated using the World Resources Institute Aqueduct Risk Atlas.  Protected areas 0.03% OF LEASE AREAS OVERLAP  WITH PROTECTED AREAS1 We complete an"
"annual assessment of  protected areas located within or adjacent to  (3 miles or 5 km) operated asset lease areas.  The assessment utilizes the latest version of  the World Database on Protected Areas. Our  infrastructure within or adjacent to protected  areas includes pipelines, well pads,  compressor stations, one LNG facility and  one terminal. 12 PROTECTED AREAS WITHIN  3 MILES (5 KM) OF FIVE ASSETS APLNG | Bakken | Permian Basin   Montney | Teesside 1 Estimated as the percentage of lease"
"areas overlapping with designated  protected areas using the World Database on Protected Areas. Contributions to conservation OVER We consider contributions to conservation as  enhancing, benefiting, improving or restoring  habitats and ecosystems including from regulatory  required or strategic voluntary biodiversity offsets,  compensatory wetland mitigation and voluntary  habitat restoration of company-owned lands. 65,900 CUMULATIVE ACRES on company-owned lands and operated assets. Voluntary"
"conservation agreements OVER Voluntary conservation agreements are formal  agreements with the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service  and/or other federal or state agencies that include  stipulations governing the timing of certain  development activities within specific species  habitats or sensitive areas. 470,000 CUMULATIVE ACRES within Lower 48 operated asset lease areas. IUCN Red List species 9  ASSETS IN  FOUR COUNTRIES We identify local species of interest including  species at-risk, endangered,"
"rare, significant,  threatened or of cultural value. Some of the local  species of concern may also have been identified as  near-threatened, vulnerable, endangered or  critically endangered on the IUCN Red List of  Threatened Species.  with at least one IUCN Red List species  known to occur.2 2 The majority of our assets actively mitigate risks related to at least one  species of local importance that is also an IUCN Red List species.  Exposure to water stress  We use the World Resources"
"Institute Aqueduct  Risk Atlas to complete a screening level  assessment of our portfolio exposure to water  stress. For select assets we also verify the level of  water stress using local water supply and demand  data for a more detailed understanding.  Operated assets located within areas of high  baseline water stress in 2024 included parts of the  Permian Basin and parts of the Eagle Ford. Overall,  8.2% of our fresh water withdrawal and 10.4% of  our fresh water consumption was in regions"
"of high  water stress.  1 2024 data reported for heritage ConocoPhillips operated assets. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Managing nature-related risks 44 Regional water metrics  Metric Alaska (MM m3) APLNG (MM m3)  Bakken (MM m3)  Eagle Ford (MM m3)  Permian (MM m3)  Montney (MM m3)  Norway (MM m3) Surmont (MM m3) Teesside (MM m3) Fresh water withdrawn 0.66 0.27 1.5 3.0 0.07 0.78 0.16 1.3 1.3 Fresh water discharged 0.17 0.29 0 0 0 0.01 0.16 0.05 1.4 Non-fresh water withdrawn 9.0 0 1.0"
"7.6 5.8 0 23.8 0.11 0.13 Municipal wastewater reclaimed 0.19 0 0 0 2.3 0 0 0 0 Produced water reused/recycled 36.3 0 0.007 0 17.1 0.81 0 22.6 0 Produced water disposed 0.0003 0 4.6 4.9 64.3 0.13 0 2.5 0 Produced water discharged 0 0 0 0 0 0 16.7 0 0 Non-fresh Fresh Municipal  Waste Water Reused/  recycled Reused/  recycled Disposed Discharged 46% OF PRODUCED  WATER IS REUSED  OR RECYCLED 44% IS DISPOSED OF 10% IS DISCHARGED  OFFSHORE AFTER  TREATMENT Source water — Global1 Produced water managed"
"— Global 93.4% OF SOURCE WATER IS NON-FRESH WATER, MUNICIPAL WASTE  WATER AND REUSED  OR RECYCLED  PRODUCED WATER 6.6% IS FRESH WATER Fresh water consumption intensity 0.07 0.03 BBL/ BOE EUR1 BBL/ BOE2 UNCONVENTIONAL Bakken | Eagle Ford Montney | Permian Basin CONVENTIONAL/ OFFSHORE Alaska | APLNG | Ekofisk Surmont | Teesside 1 Calculated using Enverus data for the average volume of fresh water (BBL) divided by the  average estimated ultimate recovery (EUR, BOE) as of April 1, 2025. Intensity"
"value may change  as EUR data is updated. EUR — estimated ultimate recovery. 2 Calculated using the average volume of fresh water (BBL) divided by the average annual  production (BOE).  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Social 45 Social Engaging with Girls Talk Tech  students in Houston  Managing social-related risks and impacts We address the social and community aspects of our operations and projects at the business unit (BU) level. We have a comprehensive governance framework that"
"extends from the board of directors through executive and senior  management to the staff levels in each BU. Read more about our sustainable development governance structure. Risk and impact assessment By understanding the social, economic, political and environmental factors affecting stakeholders, we can identify and  monitor emerging trends, manage potential impacts and reputational risks associated with our operations and add value to  the communities where we operate. Our stakeholder"
"identification process is a key component of social risk assessment. Each BU is responsible for identifying  stakeholders to understand their perspectives and concerns. Through our ongoing relationships with stakeholders, we  identify important issues as well as potential opportunities for collaboration. From this we develop an engagement plan to  address concerns and foster mutually beneficial relationships. By having open dialogue, we are able to identify and address  potential impacts"
"associated with our operations. This is done through our integrated sustainable development (SD) risk  management process where existing and planned exploration and production as well as major projects are examined  against the physical, social and political settings of our operations. Social assessments consider: • Impacts to communities, including human rights, Indigenous Peoples rights, labor rights, security, public health, political  and economic issues. • Stakeholder priorities, including"
"support of or opposition to company activities. • Risks and impacts related to supplier and contractor activities. • Cumulative effects of company and/or industry activities. To support our BUs in operationalizing our Stakeholder Engagement Principles, we provide Social Performance Guidance  with recommended internal processes and external engagement to understand and address stakeholder priorities. Based on  this guidance, each BU manages local social risks, priorities and regulatory"
"requirements, enabling tailored, region-specific  business goals to address unique challenges and opportunities In 2024, four BUs and the corporate SD function identified and ranked 10 significant social risks associated with potential  project delays and business interruptions. Mitigations have been developed to address these risks. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Social 46 We are committed to respectfully engaging with local stakeholders — those who  influence or may be affected by"
"our business — to understand their values and  interests, mitigate the impact of our operations and proposed projects, and  support economic and community development opportunities. We prioritize early  and frequent engagement with our stakeholders to build trust, garner respect  and develop mutually beneficial relationships.  Creating shared value We aim to build strong relationships founded on transparency, courtesy and trust. This approach not only enables us to  effectively manage potential"
"risks and impacts to local stakeholders and our business but also supports the development of  mutually beneficial relationships. Through this dedication to transparency and trust, we foster the creation of long-term  value and opportunities for both the community and our organization. Integrating stakeholder input Through inclusive and transparent engagement, we gain further understanding of stakeholder values, priorities and  concerns. Our aim is to integrate their input into our plans and"
"operations by finding solutions that benefit both parties and  address the impacts of our operations on their communities. This approach is displayed in a variety of efforts across our  global BUs. In Canada, our collaborative contracting process allows us to work closely with Indigenous communities to create economic  development opportunities. In both Montney and Surmont, we established business working groups to incorporate  community feedback and consider: • Contracting capacity alongside"
"ConocoPhillips contracting opportunities. • Community contracting priorities and focus areas. • Comments and feedback on ConocoPhillips procurement processes. Together we discuss how to measure the success of these efforts.  Working with local authorities in Canada and Indigenous Peoples, we also identify and select existing company sites to  mitigate impacts and prioritize restoration under the applicable regulations. Through site visits and collaboration with the  community, the restoration"
"plan for each site is developed, executed and monitored. The final restoration plans include  the incorporated community feedback and innovative site preparation techniques. Read more about our efforts in Canada. In Alaska, we are committed to ongoing engagement throughout the state including with North Slope communities, especially  those near our operations and within the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska (NPR-A). We travel to villages and host in-person  meetings to listen to stakeholder"
"feedback and concerns. We attend regular city and tribal council meetings, regional  assembly and planning commission meetings, and participate in community events to develop relationships with local leaders  and community members. Through our community investment activities, we support projects and events that are important to  our stakeholders and enhance communities throughout Alaska. We are committed to honoring the subsistence lifestyle of North Slope residents. We seek feedback from"
"stakeholders, and  implement and refine mitigation measures such as reduced speed limits and pullouts and ramps to improve subsistence  access along the road system. We also consult with stakeholders on the placement and design of infrastructure to minimize  impacts to subsistence and improve subsistence access. Read more about our efforts in Alaska. We recognize that our operations intersect with communities in Australia. Through transparent and inclusive engagement,  we work closely with"
"stakeholders to understand and address the social and environmental impacts of our business. Our  involvement in regional committees, social investment collaborations, and direct workforce participation ensures that our  approach is proactive, solutions-focused and mutually beneficial. By prioritizing long-term partnerships, investing in local capacity building, and empowering communities through education,  workforce pathways and cultural engagement, we remain deeply embedded in the regions"
"where we operate helping to  drive sustainable, positive change for the future. In 2024, we completed meaningful consultation with relevant and interested stakeholders as part of the regulatory  commitments to prepare our Environment Plan for the Otway Exploration Drilling Program. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Social 47  Consultation was an important part of developing the Environment Plan, with feedback used to identify additional control  measures where appropriate. The plan"
"outlines how the program meets the objectives of Australia’s robust environment  regulations. Read more about our efforts in Australia. In the U.S. Lower 48, we continued hosting leadership roundtables for assets in 12 counties. The roundtables provide an  opportunity for the company to share updates on our operations and report on community investment and sponsorship  activities. However, the most valuable aspect is the feedback we receive, as it helps us understand the needs and objectives"
"set by locally appointed leaders in these counties and cities. The engagements have shaped the company's involvement in  various projects. For example: • In the Permian we partner annually with Texas Adopt-A-Highway in order to address stakeholder concerns around  increased road trash from truck traffic. • In the Eagle Ford, we worked in collaboration with the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) and local officials to  construct a new bypass that would reroute heavy traffic away from a"
"school to increase public safety. Building and strengthening local economies and communities Helping improve the quality of life in the communities where we live and work is an important goal for ConocoPhillips and  our employees. We work with stakeholders to identify and support programs and opportunities that will make a difference in  communities. Charitable contributions are an important part of how we meaningfully contribute. Our giving underpins long-term  relationships with trusted"
"partners who deliver and track beneficial impacts for our signature programs, while also  supporting employees and other local community needs. Annually, approximately 20% of our global budget is allocated to  employee giving programs, while the remaining 80% is allocated between our signature programs and other local  contributions. Read more about our 2024 social investments. We have maintained a focus on two signature programs for over 10 years: STEM education in Houston, Texas, and species"
"and habitat conservation globally. The strategic alignment between ConocoPhillips and our STEM program recognizes that math remains key to academic and  career success and core to our work. Since the launch of the Houston Signature Program, more than $30 million19 has been  invested in math education to support programs designed to enhance teacher development and improve student  performance. In 2024, we partnered with the University of Houston to launch the new ConocoPhillips STEM Zone to"
"engage  K-12th grade students in the STEM fields through athletics and sports. We also continued our program support for Rice  University’s Applied Math Program (AMP!), United Way Mastering Algebra Together Houston (M.A.T.H.) and the Houston  Texan’s TORO’s Math Drills. Learn more about these efforts on our website.  For our conservation program, working with strategic partners such as Ducks Unlimited, Smithsonian Institution,  Yellowstone Forever, Pheasants Forever, Migratory Bird Joint"
"Ventures and the National Fish & Wildlife Foundation,  ConocoPhillips has contributed toward the collaborative conservation, restoration and improvement of more than 20 million  acres, tracked 400 bird migration routes and supported more than 40 scientific discoveries. Read more on our website. In the Lower 48, the ConocoPhillips Small Biz Builder program continued to provide business management training and  access to capital funding through LiftFund. The program enhances business acumen,"
"offers business coaching, and  facilitates networking with like-minded entrepreneurs. Since its debut in 2022, 119 local entrepreneurs have participated in  this program. This initiative is another way we support the businesses and communities where we operate. As part of our commitment to being a good neighbor, we also provide local investments to address other essential needs in  the communities near our operations. Investments support local arts, civic, disaster relief, education, health,"
"safety and  social services.  Ensuring a sustainable workforce is essential to the communities where we operate. Investing in technical  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Social 48 19 Includes both sponsorship and programming expenses.   education programs at community colleges and public schools not only equips individuals with the skills needed for high- demand careers but also strengthens the local economy. Through our STEM education programs, we encourage  participation in the energy"
"industry to build a strong workforce for the future. • In the Eagle Ford, ConocoPhillips provided $277,000 in scholarships and equipment to the Victoria College Foundation for  Instrumentation, Electrical, and Process Technology students. • Since 2020, we’ve hosted a ConocoPhillips Rig Day for high school students in the Permian Basin to spend a day on an oil  rig and learn more about our operations. • In the Bakken, we are actively involved in T4 Tools Trades Torque and Tech, which aims to"
"inspire and educate students in  grades 6-12 about various career opportunities. The program includes educational summits where students get the  opportunity to participate in hands-on activities and explore different trades and technologies. These summits are hosted  throughout North Dakota, including in Indigenous Peoples communities, providing a diverse range of students with the  chance to learn and grow.  • Over the last two decades, ConocoPhillips has supported the National Energy"
"Education Development (NEED) program for  teachers in the Eagle Ford and Midland Basin. The program provides teachers with curriculum and resources about  energy education. In Alaska, we also support a number of STEM-focused education programs to help prepare the future workforce, including: • GeoForce Summer Program through the University of Alaska Fairbanks (UAF), offering rural high school students the  chance to learn about geology and career paths to the geosciences during two-week-long"
"summer academies exploring  destinations throughout the U.S. • Alaska Resource Education’s Workforce Development efforts, including in-person and distance-delivery STEM camps,  classroom visits and career exploration programs. • The ANSEP program at the University of Alaska, supporting Summer Bridge students with internship opportunities,  including ANSEP Acceleration and Middle School academies. • Alaska Excel, a program designed to provide rural Alaska students with career and college"
"exploration opportunities. In Canada, support for first responders was a primary focus in 2024. Donations were made to the City of Calgary Fire  Department, Shock Trauma Air Rescue Service (STARS), and other local helicopter emergency response organizations to  provide critical life-saving services and care for rural, remote and Indigenous community members across western Canada. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Social 49 Cash Contributions | $42.7 Memberships | $13.4 Sponsorships |"
"$9.9 University Relations | $4.3 Infrastructure Projects | $0.4 Contractual Contributions | $1.1 In-Kind Donations | $0.3 1 Due to rounding, some total numbers may not equal the sum of the subcomponents. 2024 social investments In millions1 $72.1  Valuing human rights ConocoPhillips is committed to respecting human rights. We recognize the inherent dignity of all individuals, and our core  values support the fundamental right of every person to live free from social, political or economic"
"discrimination and abuse.  We conduct our business in alignment with the human rights principles outlined in the Universal Declaration of Human  Rights (UDHR) and the International Labour Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Our  approach is guided by the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. This includes the core labor standards related to nondiscrimination, freedom of association, right to collective bargaining  and avoiding the use of forced"
"or child labor. We perform high-level human rights risk assessments in our global operations  to evaluate potential human rights issues. Areas considered include:  • Security and human rights.  • Land rights and relocation.  • Land use.  • Indigenous Peoples issues and rights.  • Company and supplier labor standards.  • Access to water.  • Cultural heritage.  • Vulnerable groups.  Our commitment to human rights is also reflected in our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, and our Health, Safety"
"and  Environment Policy and Supplier Expectations set the standards of behavior and human rights commitments for our people,  as well as contractors, suppliers and others who perform work for ConocoPhillips. Read our Human Rights Position.  Human rights due diligence Consistent with our stakeholder engagement approach, operated BUs assess and manage human rights risks. If our  operations identify potential human rights concerns, engagement plans and specific actions to manage and mitigate that"
"risk are developed through engagement with the community or other stakeholders. BUs communicate and engage with  communities and their representatives on how to contact the company and how to address any concerns or grievances. In  addition, all interested stakeholders may access the ConocoPhillips Ethics Helpline to report a potential violation of our Code  of Business Ethics and Conduct, which is publicly available on our website. We continue to offer human rights training globally via"
"computer-based modules to our stakeholder engagement  practitioners and other operations staff and management as appropriate based on location.  In addition, in the areas where we operate in vicinity to Indigenous Peoples, our BUs provide cultural awareness training. In  many cases, our stakeholder engagement leaders and business leaders may educate themselves through mentors in the  Indigenous community or with the help of local experts. Respecting Indigenous Peoples When engaging with"
"Indigenous stakeholders, we seek first to understand their social values, cultures and traditions, as well  as their expectations and preferences for dialogue and dispute resolution. Our consultations consider traditional land use  information and community interests, goals and perspectives on environmental, social and economic topics. We engage with  Indigenous communities at regional, local and individual levels by meeting regularly with regional governments, community  associations, local"
"leaders and community residents. Our stakeholder engagement professionals work with our asset and  operations teams to guide discussions and facilitate cooperation with Indigenous Peoples to address potential operational  impacts on the community. Wherever we engage with Indigenous communities, we pursue opportunities to support  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Social 50  economic development consistent with Indigenous cultures and community development plans. In some cases, the"
"engagement and consultation may be guided by a formal agreement with the Indigenous community. Areas where we explore or operate near these communities include the United States, Canada and Australia. Our  engagement with Indigenous communities in those locations is consistent with the principles of the International Labour  Organization Convention 169 concerning Indigenous and Tribal Peoples, and the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of  Indigenous Peoples. Security and human rights We"
"drive collective action to address security and human rights issues through engagement with government,  nongovernmental organizations (NGO) and other business stakeholders in the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human  Rights (VPSHR). We have been a member of the VPSHR initiative since its inception in 2000. Our social performance  guidance directs our VPSHR implementation and our annual report to the VPSHR details our current practices and provides  updates for previous years. Supply chain"
"and local content Sustainability is integral to our procurement process. By actively engaging with suppliers to learn and share sustainable  practices, we seek to enhance our business methods and operational efficiency. This proactive approach allows us to  effectively manage risks, minimize impacts, and enhance overall value across our supply chain. We work to foster business  opportunities and promote the growth of local and diverse suppliers within our supplier network.  Supplier engagement"
"As an organization committed to sustainable development, we recognize the critical role that suppliers play. Engagement  with suppliers is a fundamental aspect of our sustainability strategy. We collaborate with our suppliers to assess their  sustainability practices and look for alignment with our values and objectives. Through dialogue, we foster a shared  commitment to environmental stewardship and community well-being. We regularly engage our suppliers through business reviews and supplier"
"audits to: • Identify sustainable development opportunities and risks in the supply chains. • Maintain alignment with our Climate Risk Strategy. • Track metrics, review performance and identify continuous improvement opportunities. • Share best practices for building supplier capacity throughout the supply chain. An important element of our strategy is ongoing engagements with key suppliers where we collaborate on our strategic  sustainability objectives. Read more on our website. Local content"
"We prioritize enhancing supplier capability and capacity in our procurement processes and expect our suppliers to follow  suit. We highly value purchasing goods and services locally and are dedicated to giving local contractors and suppliers the  chance to engage in projects and operational needs, typically through a competitive bidding process. We actively seek  opportunities to develop local suppliers and encourage local hiring to meet our business requirements.  Read more about  how we are"
"creating shared value in communities. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Social 51  Supplier diversity At ConocoPhillips, we view Supplier Diversity as a proactive business process that provides diverse suppliers equal access  opportunity to provide materials and services to our company. We believe that long-term success and diverse supplier  inclusion go hand in hand. We do business with qualified minority, woman, disabled, LGBTQ+ or veteran-owned small business enterprises, as well as"
"global, local and Indigenous suppliers around the world. This approach attracts qualified suppliers, stimulates local  economic development, and creates long-lasting social and economic benefits in our stakeholder communities. In the U.S.,  our 2024 Supplier Diversity spend totaled $1,113 million with Indigenous businesses, businesses owned by veterans,  minorities, women, members of the LGBTQ+ community, service-disabled people and historically underutilized businesses.  An additional $1.038"
"million was spent with small business enterprises. Read more about our Supplier Diversity efforts. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Social 52 Lower 48 | 53% Alaska | 21% Europe | 11% Canada | 7% Corporate | 7% Asia Pacific &  Middle East | 1% 2024 total spend by segment1 $13.7 BILLION $13.7 BILLION  Total spend  with 7,562  contractors  in 2024 1 Total spend may not include December 2024  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Our people 53 Our people Colleagues at an  offshore"
"production  platform in China  We depend on our workforce to successfully execute the company’s strategy and we recognize the importance of creating a  workplace where our people feel valued. Our Executive Leadership Team (ELT) and board of directors help set our Human  Capital Management (HCM) strategy and drive accountability for meaningful progress.  Our HCM approach is based on our core SPIRIT Values and built around three pillars that we believe are necessary for  success: A compelling"
"culture, attracting a world-class workforce and valuing our people. Key actions and progress against  these pillars are described in more detail below: A compelling  culture Attracting a world-class  workforce Valuing our  people • SPIRIT Values guide our actions  and behaviors. • Performance and accountability  are core to our culture,  supported by consistent, fair  and merit-based practices. • Employee engagement surveys  are used to establish  meaningful action plans based  on employee"
"feedback.  • Data analytics track key  workforce and engagement  metrics. • Modern work spaces and onsite  amenities enhance employees’  workplace experience.  • We utilize consistent and fair  recruitment and selection practices to  find and onboard the talent to meet  our business needs.  • We build broad talent pipelines  through active membership with trade  associations, nonprofit organizations  and significant long-standing  partnerships with universities.  • Our U.S. Summer Internship"
"Program  offers university students a  compelling, hands-on experience. • Our strategic process allocates  university contributions in service to  strengthening and expanding our  future talent pools.  • Employees are empowered to navigate  their careers through an internal  resource website (My Career) with  curated career development resources.  • Robust succession planning process  promotes business continuity and  develops employees for key roles.  • Hands-on global Talent Management  Teams"
"(TMTs) guide employee  development around the world.  • Employees are rewarded for contributing  to our success through: –Competitive, performance-based  compensation packages and global  equitable pay practices. –Compensation programs that link  individual and company performance. –Inclusive global benefits informed by  external market practices and  employee needs and feedback. –Real-time recognition programs. –Global wellness programs that address  physical and mental well-being."
"ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Our people 54 Our strategy, performance, culture and reputation are fueled by our workforce —  the heart of our company. We recognize that attracting and developing a world-class  workforce is a competitive imperative within our complex industry. At year-end 2024,  we had approximately 11,800 employees in 14 countries. Read more about our  workforce metrics.  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Our people 55 By the numbers ~ 11,800 14 % 67% TOTAL"
"HEADCOUNT COUNTRIES OF  OPERATION U.S.  POPULATION 27% WOMEN 73% MEN 67% U.S.  WHITE 33% U.S.  POC1 12% 25% 41% UNIVERSITY  HIRES WOMEN  HIRES U.S. POC  HIRES 3.6% 88% 75% 59% VOLUNTARY  ATTRITION EXPERIENCED  HIRES MEN  HIRES U.S. WHITE  HIRES As of Dec. 31, 2024.  1People of Color (POC)  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Our people 56 4.1% White 2.5% POC 3.6% All employees 3.6% All employees 3.7% Women 3.5% Men Global representation Leadership 2024 global employee training 17.2% 18.3%"
"23.2 $1,050 20.2 OF WOMEN ARE LEADERS OF MEN ARE LEADERS AVERAGE  TRAINING HOURS  PER EMPLOYEE AVERAGE AMOUNT  SPENT PER EMPLOYEE  ON TRAINING AVERAGE TRAINING  HOURS PER  PETROTECHNICAL  EMPLOYEE Global voluntary attrition U.S. representation1 Percentage of U.S. race/ethnicity population in U.S. leadership roles2 17% 18% 15% 12% 18% 16% 21% BLACK/  AFRICAN  AMERICAN AMERICAN  INDIAN/  ALASKA  NATIVE ASIAN HISPANIC/  LATINO NATIVE  HAWAIIAN/  PACIFIC  ISLANDER TWO+  RACES WHITE U.S. voluntary"
"attrition 1Employee data based on active employees as of Dec. 31, 2024.  22024 U.S. leaders by race/ethnicity based on the represented population at ConocoPhillips.  A compelling culture Meeting the world’s evolving energy needs requires attracting and retaining a world-class workforce and cultivating an  inclusive environment, supported by our SPIRIT Values, where everyone is encouraged and able to contribute — no matter  their role, level or location. This is how innovation thrives, leading to"
"better business outcomes.   At ConocoPhillips, we believe our people power the future of energy. We’re experts in what we do and continuously find  ways to do our jobs better. How we do our work sets us apart and drives our performance. We foster an inclusive culture  that benefits all employees and values the rich mixture of backgrounds, ideas, experiences and perspectives of our people,  built on fair and consistent practices that support all employees in unlocking their full potential.   In"
"2024, we took multiple steps to reinforce our SPIRIT Values-based culture, particularly as we prepared to welcome new  employees following the Marathon Oil transaction. At an enterprise level, we foster an inclusive culture through:  • Performance management: All employees receive a “how” rating as part of our performance management process.  This  rating holds our workforce and our leaders accountable for behaviors, including those that contribute to an inclusive  culture.  • Recognition: We"
"offer multiple tools for employee and team recognition for outstanding performance. Our supervisor-  and employee-driven internal recognition program, The Mark Award, enables employees to recognize their peers for  individual accomplishments through monetary and non-monetary awards for going above and beyond in their day-to-day  work or completing significant project milestones. In addition, the company hosts the annual SPIRIT of Performance  Awards that celebrate teams and individuals that"
"demonstrate excellence and impact.    • Employee engagement surveys: Taking steps to measure and assess employee satisfaction and engagement is at the  heart of long-term business success and creates a great place to work for our global workforce. Since 2019, the  ConocoPhillips Perspectives survey has become our primary listening platform for gathering feedback on employee  sentiment and strengthening our culture. Leaders analyze the survey data and comments and identify focus areas for"
"action, striving for incremental year-over-year progress on results. Our employee feedback strategy is comprised of an  annual engagement survey and shorter ad hoc pulse surveys. • Employee Resource Groups: We sponsor broad participation in our Employee Resource Groups and align their work to  specific focus areas – such as increasing access to leaders and expanding development opportunities – that add value to  both employees and the company. Participation in our Employee Resource Groups is"
"open to all employees. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Our people 57 Our SPIRIT Values are the foundation of our culture and ensure alignment across our global workforce. S P I R I T SAFETY PEOPLE INTEGRITY RESPONSIBILITY INNOVATION TEAMWORK No task is so  important that we  can’t take the time  to do it safely.  A safe company  is a successful  company. We respect one  another. We recognize  that our success  depends upon the  capabilities and  inclusion of our  employees. We value"
"different voices and  opinions. We are ethical and  trustworthy in our  relationships with  internal and external  stakeholders.  We keep our  promises. We are accountable  for our actions.  We care about our  neighbors.  Sustainability is core  to our company and  creates shared value  for our stakeholders. We anticipate change  and respond with  creative solutions.  We are responsive to  the changing needs  of the industry. We  embrace learning.  We are not afraid to  try new things. We have a"
"“can do”  attitude that inspires  top performance  from everyone.  We encourage  collaboration. We  celebrate success.  We win together.  U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) reports  We publicly disclose the ConocoPhillips Consolidated EEO-1 Report on a voluntary basis. The report characterizes our U.S.  workforce by race, ethnicity and gender across job categories established by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity  Commission (EEOC). The makeup of our U.S. workforce is included below."
"ConocoPhillips EEO-1 reports for the last three years:  • 2024 EEO-1 Report • 2023 EEO-1 Report • 2022 EEO-1 Report Additional details on EEO reports are available on the EEOC website.   ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Our people 58 White | 67.1% Hispanic or  Latino | 17.2% Asian | 7.0% Black or African American | 4.6% American Indian or  Alaska Native | 2.3% Two+ races | 1.6% Native Hawaiian or Other  Pacific Islander | 0.2% 5.8% 4.8% U.S.  VETERANS PEOPLE WITH  DISABILITIES 2024 U.S."
"representation  by race/  ethnicity  Native Hawaiian or Other  Paciﬁc Islander | 0.3% White | 58.9% Hispanic or  Latino | 25.9% Asian | 5.8% Black or African American | 5.3% American Indian or  Alaska Native | 2.1% Two+ Races | 1.7% Our continued success requires a skilled global workforce.  We recruit experienced hires with key skills to help us  sustain a broad range of expertise. We also offer university  internships across multiple disciplines and partner with  universities and nonprofit"
"organizations to create talent  pipelines for early-career talent.   Our voluntary attrition rate in 2024 was 3.6%. We monitor  our voluntary attrition rate on a regular basis and seek to  understand trends that may be driving attrition. This  includes reviewing qualitative feedback from exit  interviews and periodically analyzing the data through  different demographic filters for trends. We strive to ensure fair and consistent practices in every aspect of our recruitment process and conduct"
"talent assessments  to meet our business needs. To ensure our workforce is representative of the communities where we operate and the talent  pools from which we recruit/hire, we leverage data analytics and other key business drivers to evaluate and optimize our  recruiting strategies.   • We use an innovative writing platform to help us remove any biased language and unconscious barriers to attracting top  candidates from job postings. Our job descriptions reflect transferable skills and"
"industry-adjacent experiences in support  of broadening our talent pipeline for field-based roles.   • We use an established internal business process for auditing each step of our sourcing, recruitment and selection  processes to mitigate the potential for bias in our decisions.    • In the U.S., we maintain a data analytics dashboard to provide insights into our external and university talent sources, from  application to offer. This dashboard also helps us monitor acceptance rates and enables"
"us to make data-informed  decisions related to optimizing our candidate outreach efforts and financial contributions to universities. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Our people 59 Attracting a world-class workforce Field | 35% Engineering and  Geoscience | 36% Business | 29% 2024  U.S. hires Global hires  by function 25% 41% OF GLOBAL HIRES  WERE WOMEN OF U.S. HIRES IN 2024  WERE PEOPLE OF COLOR 75% 59% OF GLOBAL HIRES  WERE MEN OF U.S. HIRES IN 2024  WERE WHITE  U.S. internship"
"program We take enormous pride in our summer internship program,  which offers compelling, hands-on experience. To attract top  talent for full-time positions and summer internships, we  recruit from numerous universities in the U.S. We provide  interns with challenging assignments, knowledgeable  mentors and engaging activities to help them grow their skills  and network.   The relationship between the company and the universities  we support is important. We invest in strengthening our  future"
"workforce by making financial contributions to 19  universities, including giving to programs that aid in  expanding the pipeline of talent into our industry.   ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Our people 60 White | 51.1% Hispanic or  Latino | 22.3% Asian | 6.4% Black or African  American | 11.7% Two+ races | 6.4% American Indian or  Alaska Native | 2.1% Pacific Islander | 0.0% 2024 U.S.  university  hires Our 2024 U.S. internship program by the numbers 154 12 INTERNS DISCIPLINES 2024"
"job and internship acceptance rates1  by U.S. university students 74% U.S. INTERNS 75% U.S. UNIVERSITY HIRES 82% CONVERSION RATE OF  INTERNS TO HIRES 1 Acceptance and conversion rates are calculated by dividing  accepted offers by the total number of offers made to U.S.  university students or interns in 2024. 2024 U.S. interns and university hires Interns 41% 44% WOMEN POC 59% 56% MEN WHITE University hires 44% 49% WOMEN POC 56% 51% MEN WHITE  Valuing our people Investing in our employees is"
"good for business. It improves our company’s performance and strengthens employee  engagement. We approach talent development and succession planning with the same rigor that we apply to our business  strategy. We engage and develop our workforce through on-the-job learning, formal training, ongoing feedback, coaching  and mentoring. For our efforts, we have been recognized as one of Forbes’s 2025 America’s Best Companies and Fortune’s  2024 World’s Most Admired Companies. Career development We"
"empower our employees to grow their careers through personal and professional development opportunities, including  annual career development conversations with supervisors, development plans via talent cards, a voluntary 360-feedback  tool and training on a broad range of technical and professional skills.  In 2024, we launched My Career, our new internal, one-stop-shop career development resource website to help employees  navigate their careers at ConocoPhillips. The My Career site addresses"
"employee feedback by centralizing career  development resources and providing global employees at all levels easy access to guidance, curated tools and actionable  suggestions to help them be intentional about their development. Our goal is to equip employees and supervisors with the  information needed to have meaningful career conversations and to know what career options exist to make informed  decisions about career paths. Talent Management Teams (TMTs) Skills-based TMTs, made up of senior"
"representatives from BUs and corporate functions, guide employee development and  career progression by discipline (e.g., Geoscience, Finance and Global Production) and location. TMTs help identify our  future business needs and assess the availability of critical skill sets within the company. They also play a vital role in  ensuring integrity, fairness and consistency in our talent practices and succession planning.     Succession planning Succession planning is a top priority for the ELT and"
"the board of directors. This work ensures we have the talent available  for key leadership roles while limiting business interruption. Leaders at all levels review talent cards, provide feedback and  facilitate career conversations on an ongoing basis to ensure that employees have opportunities to learn and grow. Annually,  business leaders and TMTs meet to review succession benches, calibrate talent and provide recommendations to executive  leadership and the board to ready our succession"
"candidates for future leadership roles.  Formal training In 2024, our employees completed approximately 238,300 hours of virtual and in-person training on topics ranging from  technical and digital skills to professional development (an average of 23.2 hours per employee). We provide many training  and development offerings to equip our employees and leaders with the knowledge, skills and behaviors needed for  success. We also offer all global employees access to thousands of professional and"
"personal development courses.  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Our people 61  Leadership development We recognize that supervisors play a key role in talent development, so we offer a supervisor development curriculum to  help leaders effectively engage and develop their employees. Global courses focus on proactive communication, employee  development and building trust.  Our Leader of Leaders program brings together the company’s top senior leaders from around the globe in small"
"virtual  cohorts to create an opportunity to connect on key business drivers influencing our performance and culture. Every fall,  senior leaders come together in person in Houston for our annual Leadership Forum meeting that builds alignment on  priorities related to strategy, technology, culture and topical employee engagement strategies.  Performance management Annually, we use a performance management program focused on objectivity, credibility and transparency. The program  includes broad"
"stakeholder feedback, real-time recognition and a formal “how” rating to hold our workforce and leaders  accountable for behaviors reflective of our SPIRIT Values and Leadership Competencies. Leaders are equipped with  guidelines and reference materials to assist with their assessment of key “how” performance indicators.   Recognition is important to our employees and core to our culture. Our supervisor and employee-driven internal recognition  program, The Mark Award, enables employees to"
"recognize their peers for individual accomplishments through monetary  and nonmonetary awards (Instant Thanks) for going above and beyond in their day-to-day work or completing project  milestones.  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Our people 62 The Mark Award program An employee-driven recognition program 11% ~1,800 OF EMPLOYEES  RECEIVED INSTANT  THANKS INSTANT THANKS  MESSAGES SENT 72% ~21,000 OF EMPLOYEES  RECEIVED MONETARY  AWARDS MONETARY  AWARDS GIVEN  Compensation, benefits and"
"well-being Our compensation and benefits philosophy and the overall structure of our programs are designed to reward all employees  who contribute to our success. We offer competitive, performance-based compensation packages, follow global equitable  pay practices and provide family-friendly benefits that support employees through all stages of their life. Compensation Our compensation programs generally include base pay rate, the annual Variable Cash Incentive Program (VCIP) and, for  eligible"
"employees, the Restricted Stock Unit (RSU) program. From the CEO to the frontline worker, eligible employees  participate in VCIP, which aligns employee compensation with ConocoPhillips success on critical performance metrics and  also recognizes individual performance. The RSU program is designed to attract and retain employees, reward performance  and align employee interest with stockholders by encouraging stock ownership. Our retirement and savings plans are  intended to support employees’"
"financial futures and are competitive within local markets. Global equitable pay practices We have global equitable pay practices that strive to ensure the compensation of every employee reflects their talents,  skills, responsibilities and experience and are competitive within our peer group. We routinely benchmark our global  compensation and benefits programs with local markets to ensure they are competitive, inclusive and aligned with company  culture, and allow employees to meet their"
"individual needs and the needs of their families. Benefits Our global benefits are competitive, inclusive and align with our culture. We provide family-friendly policies such as flexible  work schedules and market-competitive paid time off, including parental leave in many locations. New birth mothers in the  U.S. are eligible for up to 14 weeks of paid leave, inclusive of postpartum and parental leave. Parents and adoptive parents in  the U.S. are also eligible for up to six weeks of paid"
"parental leave. In the U.S., we partner with employees who participate in the ConocoPhillips medical plan to promote accountability for  personal health through our Health Improvement Incentive Program. This voluntary program encourages healthy behaviors,  provides insights into potential health risks and offers opportunities to improve overall health. Employees can earn  incentives toward medical premiums by completing a series of steps, including a mental well-being incentive. In 2024, over"
"83% of participants completed a biometric screening, of which 86% earned the mental well-being incentive.  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Our people 63 Global equitable pay practices We conduct annual disparity pay  reviews to assess potential gaps  across employees in each country  and conduct annual university hire  pay compression analysis. We conduct annual adverse impact  analysis before compensation  decisions are finalized. We follow established hiring  guidelines for U.S."
"university  recruitment to make competitive  and equitable compensation offers  based on job and relevant degree  requirements. Per local government requirements,  we conduct and report on gender  pay gap analysis in the U.K. and  Australia, as well as pay equity  analysis in Norway. With the assistance of external  expertise, we conduct periodic pay  equity analysis in our major  markets and adjust compensation  where appropriate. We provide regular updates to the  Human Resources and"
"Compensation  Committee of the board of directors  on people strategies and initiatives,  including pay equity.  Well-being Our global well-being programs are designed to educate participants and promote a healthy lifestyle and culture. Exercise  facilities, healthy food choices and various wellness programs are available to our employees at many locations. Each year,  we host a global well-being competition featuring health and wellness activities called the SPIRIT of Wellness challenge. In"
"2024, ~1,700 employees participated as individuals or as part of a team, recording daily activities, earning points and  tracking their progress on individual and team leaderboards. Participants worldwide benefited from interactive  presentations and events focused on four key areas: physical activity, nutrition, mental health and lifestyle improvements.  The program challenged participants to prioritize their well-being by incorporating healthy and sustainable components of  wellness into their"
"daily routines. All employees have access to our Employee Assistance Program (EAP), and many of our locations offer custom programs to  support mental well-being. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Our people 64 U.S. Employee Assistance Program (EAP) benefits 8 24 365 Counseling sessions Available for employees  and eligible dependents  per year. Hours per day Employees can call  anytime to get help. Days of the year EAP is available  through a third-party  EAP vendor.  ConocoPhillips"
"Sustainability Report 2024 Safety, health and security 65 Safety, health  and security An Operations Technician at  Australia Pacific LNG (APLNG)  Safety A learning organization We will not be satisfied until we succeed in eliminating all injuries, occupational illnesses, unsafe practices and incidents of  environmental harm from our activities. We continuously look for ways to operate more safely, efficiently and responsibly, and we believe that begins with learning.  By being curious about how"
"work is done, recognizing error-likely situations and applying safeguards to strengthen systems  and processes, we can reduce the likelihood and severity of unexpected incidents. Read more about how we approach safety on our website. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Safety, health and security 66 Our SPIRIT Values — Safety, People, Integrity, Responsibility, Innovation and  Teamwork — inspire our actions and confirm that safety is core to how we operate.  We consistently promote safe"
"work practices and are focused on control of work.  Process safety Process safety is achieved by using precautions, or barriers, to keep our facilities safe and our products safely contained,  eliminating potential impact to people, property or the environment. An unplanned or uncontrolled release of any material  from a process system is considered a process safety event. We have consistent practices and processes for the prevention,  control and mitigation of process safety events. Effective"
"barriers can be active, passive or procedural, and can involve  equipment and/or people. We utilize multiple barriers to achieve redundancy depending on the severity of the potential  hazard. Learn more about our process safety culture on our website. Hydrocarbon spill prevention We evaluate the risk of spills occurring and potential impacts while taking numerous precautions to prevent spills and  mitigate impact within our operations. Specialized designs, operating procedures, routine"
"maintenance of our facilities,  verifications and process safety best practices play a key role in preventing spills and protecting the environment where we  operate.  In 2024, we experienced two hydrocarbon spills to the environment greater than 100 barrels. The number of hydrocarbon  spills to the environment greater than one barrel decreased in 2024. We had 34 spills that were greater than one barrel.  Forty-nine percent of the spilled volume was fully recovered. None of our spills in 2024"
"impacted a shoreline.In 2022, our  methodology for reporting hydrocarbon spills to the environment was reviewed and updated to better align with Ipieca  reporting standards. Total spill volumes for events are recorded distinctly for each impacted location and separated by the  type and volume of each material. This approach is consistent with industry best practices and has allowed for a more  accurate spill assessment by considering site-specific conditions and only reporting the volumes that"
"are impacting the  environment. Spill volumes prior to 2022 have not been adjusted to reflect this methodology update.   View our Performance metrics.       ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Safety, health and security 67  Emergency response partnerships Emergency response partnerships are vital for effective disaster management. By uniting government agencies, nonprofits,  private companies and community groups, these partnerships enhance preparedness, response and recovery efforts. We"
"maintain memberships in several global response and containment partnerships as a key element of our emergency  response preparedness program, complementing our internal response resources. Oil Spill Response Organizations (OSROs) We maintain memberships in several OSROs, many of which are not-for-profit cooperatives owned by member companies.  We may actively participate in these organizations as members of the board of directors, steering committees, work groups  or other supporting roles. In"
"North America, our primary OSROs include the Marine Spill Response Corporation for the  continental U.S. and Alaska Clean Seas and Ship Escort/Response Vessel System for the Alaska North Slope and Prince  William Sound, respectively. Internationally, we maintain memberships in various OSROs, including Oil Spill Response  Limited, the Norwegian Clean Seas Association for Operating Companies, the Australian Marine Oil Spill Center and  Petroleum Industry of Malaysia Mutual Aid Group. Read more"
"about our emergency preparedness on our website. Personal safety Safety is our first SPIRIT Value — the safety of our workforce always comes first. We focus on control of work through safe  work practices, required safety trainings and foundational HSE programs for all employees and contractors at the jobsite. For example, the Lower 48 BU conducts Safety Leadership Seminars, taught by field leaders, to reinforce hazard  recognition tools, our safety-first culture and expectations. All field-"
"based employees and contractors are required to  attend a seminar within six months of starting work and renew their training at least every three years.  Our foundational Life Saving Rules are introduced during new employee and contractor onboarding sessions and orientation.  These rules were established based on industry lessons and best practices to prevent serious or fatal injuries from  occurring.  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Safety, health and security 68 Hydrocarbon spills"
"to  the environment >1 barrel (BBL) 600 2194 861 303 1087 83 178 99 38 34 Number of spills Volume of spills (BBL) 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Hydrocarbon spills to the environment >100 barrels (BBL) 100 734 299 0 777 1 4 2 0 2 Number of spills Volume of spills (BBL) 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024  The rules have visual reminders and easy-to-follow minimum requirements, called critical controls, to keep our workforce  safe during high-risk activities. Videos highlighting each rule and corresponding"
"critical controls are played in field-safety  training meetings. Applicable Life Saving Rule identification and critical controls are addressed as part of pre-job planning,  permits and risk-assessment processes. They are part of our safe work cycle that includes “plan, do, assess and adjust.” Our  Life Saving Rules and corresponding field verification program reinforce our strong culture of safety and contribute to our  long-term decline in workforce injuries. We compare our workforce Total"
"Recordable Rate (TRR) with that of our peers in the oil and gas industry, as well as other  industries. Over the past seven years, we have achieved top-quartile TRR performance among our peers six times. In 2024,  our TRR performance was improved compared to 2023. However, we had an increase in serious incidents, including one  fatality. View our performance metrics, including the TRR for employees, contractors and the overall workforce. HSE management system Objectives, targets and deadlines"
"are set and tracked annually to drive strong HSE performance. Progress is reported to our  Executive Leadership Team and the Board of Directors. Our corporate Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Management System Standard helps ensure our activities are  consistently conducted in a safe, healthy, environmentally and socially responsible manner across the globe. The standard  outlines requirements for implementing the company's HSE Policy, leadership expectations and SPIRIT Values. Individual"
"sections of the standard combine to provide a continuous improvement process based on plan, do, assess and adjust. Our  corporate standard aligns with and is based on industry standards such as ISO 45001, ISO 14001 and ISO 9001. In accordance with the corporate standard, each BU implements a BU-specific HSE Management System to meet  requirements outlined in the global standard and assess and manage local regulatory requirements and operational risks to  the business, employees, contractors,"
"stakeholders and the environment. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Safety, health and security 69  Emergency preparedness The complex nature of our business means we must be prepared to respond to a range of possible disruptions such as major  accidents, political instability or extreme weather. Preventing incidents through good project planning, design,  implementation and leadership is our primary objective. If a spill or other unplanned event occurs, we have procedures and  processes"
"in place to respond effectively.  The corporate Crisis Management & Emergency Response (CM&ER) team is responsible for maintaining emergency  response preparedness on a global scale, providing proactive training, resources and supplemental staffing assistance in  the event of an emergency. Additionally, regional teams maintain groups of well-trained response professionals for local  incidents. We conduct multiple emergency preparedness trainings and exercises at the global and regional level"
"each year  to further enhance our response capabilities while retaining an intense focus on prevention. Thorough investigations of all  significant incidents are conducted in partnership with BUs and corporate HSE to understand the root cause and share  lessons learned to prevent future incidents.  In 2024, the corporate CM&ER team conducted three large-scale response exercises. One exercise, in collaboration with the  Alaska BU and the Information Technology function, aimed to test and"
"strengthen our cybersecurity incident response plan,  business continuity plan, and enhance collaboration between local staff and corporate teams. Another exercise tested the  Emergency Response Plans and involved practicing equipment deployment at the Helena Stabilizer in Kenedy, Texas. In  Australia, the local team tested their oil spill response plan during a simulated offshore vessel collision exercise.  Read more about our emergency preparedness on our website. Occupational health and"
"industrial hygiene The goal of our Occupational Health and Industrial Hygiene program is to protect the health of workers and the neighboring  community through the identification, evaluation and control of potential workplace exposures. Each BU develops and implements an Exposure Assessment Plan that identifies potential chemical and nonchemical  exposures and implements controls to prevent worker or community exposures. Health assessments are conducted to  ensure that control measures are"
"protecting the health of potentially exposed workers. Read more about employee benefits and wellness on our website. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Safety, health and security 70  Security and cybersecurity Security The security and protection of our people, assets, information and reputation are cornerstones of our business. While risk  can never be eliminated, we continuously strive to mitigate it by prudently anticipating, preventing and responding to  internal and external"
"security threats.  As an operator of critical infrastructure and facilities in challenging locations worldwide, we work closely with governmental  agencies, nongovernmental organizations, our peers and local communities on initiatives to identify, deter, prevent and  mitigate a range of potential threats to company personnel, facilities and operations. We manage our facilities consistent  with all applicable national and international security standards and regulations including:  • U.S."
"Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (CTPAT) • Department of Transportation  • Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC)  • Hazmat Transportation Security requirements  • Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards (CFATS) • International Ship and Port Facility Security Code (ISPS) • Maritime Transportation Security Act (MTSA) • Maritime Transport and Facilities Security Regulations (Australia)  • Bureau of Land Management  We maintain a “Tier III” status in the Customs-Trade"
"Partnership Against Terrorism (CTPAT) program by demonstrating  effective security that exceeds the minimum program criteria. This effort is conducted through our partnership with U.S.  Customs and Border Protection who assess the overall effectiveness of our security processes.  We remain an active, participating member of the U.S. State Department Overseas Security Advisory Council (OSAC),  the Domestic Security Alliance Council (DSAC), Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights"
"(VPSHR) and other  national and international security organizations.  Cybersecurity We take a multilayered approach to cybersecurity risk management and strategy. Our Information Technology (IT) and  Operational Technology (OT) Security Program integrates administrative, technical, and physical controls against evolving  cybersecurity threats, and includes enterprise IT and OT security architecture, cybersecurity operations, data privacy and  governance, supply chain security, and governance,"
"risk and compliance. Additionally, it is designed to identify, assess and  manage cybersecurity risks and protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our data, IT and OT. Cybersecurity is a component of our IT/OT Security Program, which we periodically review and adapt to respond to new and  evolving circumstances, cybersecurity threats and regulations. We evaluate security, privacy and resiliency risks, including  those related to cybersecurity, in our overall Enterprise Risk"
"Management (ERM) program's annual risk assessment process.  This annual risk assessment process takes into account broader risks based on likelihood, potential consequences, and  mitigations, such as operational and economic impact; health, safety and environmental impact; and reputational and  financial implications. This risk assessment is discussed with members of the ELT, Audit and Finance Committee (AFC) of the  Board of Directors, and Board of Directors on at least an annual basis. Read"
"more about cybersecurity risk management in our 10-K filing. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Safety, health and security 71  Performance Performance by year1 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Performance by year 72 Net equity total Metric 2020 2021 2022 2023 20242, 3 GRI Ipieca SASB Climate Net Equity Greenhouse Gas Emissions  (thousand tonnes CO2e) 16,700 18,300 18,358 20,070 21,110 CCE-4 Net Equity GHG intensity (kg CO2e/BOE)4 40.8 32.9 28.9 30.1 29.5 305-4 CCE-4 Target"
"Related Net Equity Intensity (kg CO2e/BOE)5 40.2 32.4 28.5 29.7 29.0 305-4 CCE-4 Operated total6 Climate and Air Emissions GHG intensity (kg CO2e/BOE) Total GHG Intensity  34.3 26.9 23.3 25.3 22.4 305-4 CCE-4 Target Related GHG Intensity 33.8 26.6 22.9 24.9 22.0 305-4 CCE-4 GHGs (thousand tonnes) CO2 from Operations 13,800 15,900 13,229 13,113 13,146 305-1 CCE-4 CO2e from Imported Electricity (Scope 2) 700 1,000 1,060 1,001 932 305-2 CCE-4 Methane (CO2e) 1,600 1,800 1,758 3,298 2,341 305-1 CCE-4"
"Nitrous Oxide (CO2e) 100 20 21 21 21 305-1 CCE-4 Total GHGs (thousand tonnes CO2e) 16,200 18,720 16,068 17,433 16,438 CCE-4 CO2e Per Dollars Of Revenue (tonnes/$thousand)7 0.86 0.41 0.20 0.31 0.30 305-4 Potential CO2e from Proved Reserves (million tonnes) 1,875 2,525 2,699 2,821 3,260 EM-EP-420a.2 Scope 1 emissions by source category  (thousand tonnes CO2e)8 Flaring 1,300 1,900 1,560 2,283 2,184 305-1 CCE-4 Combustion 12,300 13,800 11,536 11,402 11,683 305-1 CCE-4 Process Venting 1,500 1,500"
"1,461 2,599 1,319 305-1 CCE-4 EM-EP-110a.2 Fugitive Venting 200 220 168 147 319 305-1 CCE-4 Other9 200 300 282 <1 2 305-1 CCE-4 Total Scope 1 Emissions 15,500 17,720 15,008 16,432 15,507 305-1 CCE-4 EM-EP-110a.1 Percent of Scope 1 Emissions Covered by Regulation 40% 38% 43% 39% 42% EM-EP-110a.1 Methane Methane Intensity (kg CO2e/BOE) 3.4 2.6 2.6 4.8 3.2 CCE-4 Methane Emitted as Percent of Natural Gas Production 0.28% 0.23% 0.30% 0.61% 0.34% CCE-4 EM-EP-110a.1 Methane Emitted as Percent of Total"
"Hydrocarbon  Production 0.10% 0.07% 0.07% 0.14% 0.08% CCE-4 EM-EP-110a.1 Methane Emitted as Percent of Scope 1 Emissions 10% 10% 12% 20% 15% CCE-4 Flaring Routine Flaring Volume (million cubic feet)10 n/a 1,030 111 13 4 305-1 CCE-7 Total Flaring Volume (million cubic feet)11 14,500 20,500 17,858 21,867 20,171 305-1 CCE-7 EM-EP-110a.2 Flaring Intensity (Total Flaring Volume as Percent  of Gas Produced) 1.97% 1.81% 2.39% 3.36% 2.65% Flaring Intensity (Total Flaring Volume MMSCF/Total  Production"
"MMBOE) 30.8 29.5 25.9 31.8 27.5 Other air emissions (tonnes) Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) 60,800 96,400 98,508 115,587 76,841 305-7 ENV-5 EM-EP-120a.1 Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) 28,200 42,000 48,528 47,682 46,200 305-7 ENV-5 EM-EP-120a.1 Sulfur Oxides (SOx) 2,700 2,900 2,701 2,607 2,947 305-7 ENV-5 EM-EP-120a.1 Particulate Matter (PM) 1,100 1,700 1,978 1,818 1,798 305-7 ENV-5 EM-EP-120a.1  Operated total6 continued ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Performance by year 73 Metric 2020 2021"
"2022 2023 2024 GRI Ipieca SASB Climate and Air emissions continued Energy use (trillion BTUs) Combustion Energy 179 211 199 197 200 Imported Electricity 4 6 8 8 8 Total Energy 183 217 206 205 208 302-1 CCE-6 Energy Intensity (trillion BTUs/MMBOE) 0.39 0.31 0.30 0.30 0.28 302-3 CCE-6 Environment Water Fresh Water Withdrawn (million cubic meters) 10.6 9.7 9.2 10.5 8.9 303-3 ENV-1 EM-EP-140a.1 Fresh Water Consumed (million cubic meters) 8.5 7.5 7.3 8.5 7.0 303-5 ENV-1 EM-EP-140a.1 Fresh Water"
"Withdrawn in Regions with High Baseline  Water Stress 5% 17% 6.3% 14.7% 8.2% 303-3 ENV-1 EM-EP-140a.1 Fresh Water Consumed in Regions with High Baseline  Water Stress 2% 20% 2.4% 18.3% 10.4% 303-5 ENV-1 EM-EP-140a.1 Non-Fresh Water Withdrawn (million cubic meters) 48.7 55.3 52.6 53.6 47.3 303-3 ENV-1 Total Produced Water Recycled or Reused (million cubic meters)12 63.8 80.0 74.0 73.6 76.7 ENV-1 EM-EP-140a.2 Municipal Wastewater Reused (Million Cubic Meters) n/a 1.3 1.8 0.5 2.5 ENV-1 Produced"
"Water Recycled Or Reused 67% 48% 49% 46% 46% ENV-1 EM-EP-140a.2 Produced Water Injected Or Disposed 16% 42% 41% 44% 44% 303-4 ENV-2 EM-EP-140a.2 Produced Water Discharged Offshore 17% 10% 10% 11% 10% 303-4 ENV-2 EM-EP-140a.2 Hydrocarbons in Overboard Discharges (tonnes) 124 147 129 129 117 ENV-2 EM-EP-140a.2 Water intensity Unconventional Fresh Water Consumption (barrels/BOE EUR) 0.23 0.08 0.06 0.06 0.07 ENV-1 Conventional Fresh Water Consumption (barrels/BOE) 0.05 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03 ENV-1"
"Biodiversity Operated Area Overlapping With IUCN Protected Areas 0.24% 0.03% 0.04% 0.03% 0.03% 304-1 ENV-4 Number of IUCN Protected Areas Near Operated Assets 7 8 10 12 12 304-1 ENV-4 Contributions to Conservation (thousand acres) n/a n/a n/a n/a 66 304-3 ENV-4 Voluntary Conservation Agreements (thousand acres) 230 360 470 470 470 304-3 ENV-4 Number of Operated Assets with IUCN Red List Species 13 12 12 9 9 304-4 ENV-4 Liquid hydrocarbon spills to the environment13 Number of Spills > 100 Barrels"
"1 4 2 0 2 306-3 ENV-6 EM-EP-160a.2 Volume of Spills > 100 Barrels (barrels) 100 734 299 0 777 306-3 ENV-6 EM-EP-160a.2 Number of Spills > 1 Barrel 83 178 99 38 34 306-3 ENV-6 EM-EP-160a.2 Volume of Spills > 1 Barrel (barrels) 600 2,194 861 303 1,087 306-3 ENV-6 EM-EP-160a.2 Volume Recovered from Spills > 1 Barrel (barrels) 400 1,410 496 155 528 ENV-6 EM-EP-160a.2 Liquid hydrocarbon spills in the Arctic14 Number of Arctic Spills > 1 Barrel 1 3 1 2 0 EM-EP-160a.2 Volume of Arctic Spills > 1 Barrel"
"(barrels) 2 5 5 7 0 EM-EP-160a.2 Volume Recovered from Arctic Spills > 1 Barrel (barrels) 2 5 5 7 0 EM-EP-160a.2 Wastes (tonnes)15,16 Hazardous Wastes 28,200 23,000 78,600 107,611 227,523 306-3 ENV-7 Nonhazardous Wastes 159,400 213,200 322,489 1,352,155 762,507 306-3 ENV-7 Recycled Wastes 107,500 191,700 265,508 38,075 45,467 306-4 ENV-7 Total Waste Generated 295,100 427,900 666,596 1,497,841 1,035,497 306-3 ENV-7 Waste Disposed 187,600 236,200 401,088 1,459,766 990,030 306-3 ENV-7  Operated"
"total6 continued ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Performance by year 74 Metric 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 GRI Ipieca SASB Safety17 Safety (rate per 200,000 hours worked) Workforce Fatalities 0 0 0 1 1 403-9 SHS-3 EM-EP-320a.1 Workforce Total Recordable Rate 0.12 0.15 0.14 0.17 0.15 403-9 EM-EP-320a.1 Workforce Lost Workday Rate 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.05 Employee Total Recordable Rate 0.09 0.14 0.12 0.19 0.11 403-9-a-iii SHS-3 Employee Lost Workday Rate 0.02 0.05 0.06 0.05 0.04 SHS-3"
"Contractor Total Recordable Rate 0.13 0.16 0.14 0.16 0.16 403-9-b-iii SHS-3 Contractor Lost Workday Rate 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.05 SHS-3 Process safety (rate per 200,000 hours worked  by operations) Tier 1 Process Safety Event Rate18 0.03 0.09 0.05 0.04 0.05 SHS-6 EM-EP-540a.1 Social19 Economic contribution Payments to Vendors and Suppliers ($ billion)20 7.3 7.9 10.9 12.5 13.7 Shareholder Dividends ($ billion) 1.8 2.4 5.7 5.6 3.6 Capital Investments ($ billion) 4.7 5.3 10.2 11.2 12.1 Cash"
"Contributions ($ million) 31.3 33.6 33.9 33.8 42.7 SOC-13 Global workforce Employees at Year-End21 9,700 9,900 9,500 9,900 11,800 2-7-a SOC-5 Part-Time Employees 1.0% 0.9% 0.7% 0.6% 0.6% 2-7-b SOC-5 Employees — Women 27% 26% 27% 27% 27% 405-1-b-i SOC-5 Employees — Men 73% 74% 73% 73% 73% 405-1-b-i SOC-5 All Leadership —Women 23% 25% 26% 26% 26% 2-7-a SOC-5 All Leadership — Men 77% 75% 74% 74% 74% 2-7-a SOC-5 Top Leadership — Women 19% 22% 25% 26% 26% 2-7-a SOC-5 Top Leadership — Men 81% 78% 75%"
"74% 74% 2-7-a SOC-5 Junior Leadership — Women 24% 25% 26% 26% 26% 2-7-a SOC-5 Junior Leadership — Men 76% 75% 74% 74% 74% 2-7-a SOC-5 Professional — Women 29% 29% 30% 30% 31% 2-7-a SOC-5 Professional — Men 71% 71% 70% 70% 69% 2-7-a SOC-5 Petrotechnical — Women 20% 20% 21% 21% 22% 2-7-a SOC-5 Petrotechnical — Men 80% 80% 79% 79% 78% 2-7-a SOC-5 Non-U.S. Employees 41% 39% 34% 34% 33% SOC-5 All Non-U.S. Leadership 44% 41% 35% 33% 31% SOC-5 Non-U.S. Top Leadership 25% 24% 23% 23% 22% SOC-5 Non-U.S."
"Junior Leadership 49% 44% 37% 35% 32% SOC-5 Avg. Years of Service 11.9 11.3 10.9 10.9 10.6 SOC-5 Avg. Years of Experience 17.9 17.5 17.5 17.9 18.0 SOC-5 Employees by Age Group Under 30 8% 8% 8% 7% 8% 405-1-b-ii SOC-5 30–50 60% 62% 62% 61% 62% 405-1-b-ii SOC-5 51+ 33% 30% 31% 31% 31% 405-1-b-ii SOC-5  Operated total6 continued ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Performance by year 75 Metric 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 GRI Ipieca SASB Social19 continued U.S. workforce demographics22 Employees"
"— POC23 25% 28% 30% 32% 33% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5 Employees — White 75% 72% 70% 68% 67% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5 All Leadership — POC 19% 21% 23% 24% 25% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5 All Leadership — White 81% 79% 77% 76% 75% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5 Top Leadership — POC 13% 15% 18% 18% 19% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5 Top Leadership — White 87% 85% 82% 82% 81% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5 Junior Leadership — POC 22% 23% 25% 26% 26% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5 Junior Leadership — White 78% 77% 75% 74% 74% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5 Professional — POC 24% 26% 28%"
"30% 31% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5 Professional — White 76% 74% 72% 70% 69% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5 Employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement 4% 4% 4% 4% 3% 2-30-a SOC-5 Veterans 6% 6% 6% 6% 6% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5 Employees with disabilities 5% 5% 5% 5% 5% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5 U.S. Employees by race/ethnicity and gender White Women 21.2% 20.0% 19.9% 19.0% 18.3% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5 White Men 54.0% 51.8% 49.9% 49.2% 48.8% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5 Hispanic or Latino Women 2.6% 3.0% 3.6% 3.9% 4.3% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5"
"Hispanic or Latino Men 7.8% 11.7% 12.0% 12.4% 12.9% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5 Asian Women 2.0% 1.9% 2.1% 2.1% 2.4% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5 Asian Men 4.7% 4.2% 4.3% 4.5% 4.6% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5 Black or African American Women 1.8% 1.6% 1.7% 1.8% 2.0% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5 Black or African American Men 2.3% 2.2% 2.5% 2.6% 2.6% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5 American Indian or Alaska Native Women 0.9% 0.9% 1.0% 1.1% 0.9% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5 American Indian or Alaska Native Men 1.6% 1.3% 1.4% 1.5% 1.4% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5 Native"
"Hawaiian or Pacific Islander Women 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5 Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander Men 0.2% 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5 Two+ races Women 0.3% 0.4% 0.5% 0.6% 0.6% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5 Two+ races Men 0.5% 0.5% 0.9% 1.1% 1.0% 405-1-b-iii SOC-5 Hiring (global unless identified as U.S.) University hires 25% 10% 8% 8% 12% 401-1 SOC-15 Hiring — Women 29% 23% 29% 27% 25% 401-1 SOC-15 Hiring — Men 71% 77% 71% 73% 75% 401-1 SOC-15 U.S. Hiring Hiring — POC 28% 35% 41%"
"41% 41% 401-1 SOC-15 Hiring — White 72% 65% 59% 59% 59% 401-1 SOC-15 U.S. Hiring by race/ethnicity White 71.7% 63.1% 59.2% 59.1% 58.9% 401-1 SOC-15 Hispanic or Latino 10.4% 21.9% 21.2% 21.8% 25.9% 401-1 SOC-15 Asian 8.0% 5.3% 6.8% 7.5% 5.8% 401-1 SOC-15 Black or African American 6.0% 5.0% 7.4% 6.5% 5.3% 401-1 SOC-15 American Indian or Alaska Native 2.0% 0.8% 2.2% 2.5% 2.1% 401-1 SOC-15 Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander 0.4% 0.3% 0.5% 0.2% 0.3% 401-1 SOC-15 Two+ races 1.6% 2.1% 2.4% 2.5% 1.7%"
"401-1 SOC-15 Undisclosed 0.0% 1.6% 0.5% 0.0% 0.0% 401-1 SOC-15  Operated total6 continued ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Performance by year 76 Metric 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 GRI Ipieca SASB Social19 continued External hire acceptance rate University hire acceptance (U.S.) 85% 81% 70% 73% 75% 401-1 SOC-15 Interns acceptance (U.S.) 74% 76% 68% 71% 74% 401-1 SOC-15 Conversions from interns to hires 91% 82% 77% 82% 82% 401-1 SOC-15 Interns — POC 36% 38% 40% 46% 44% 401-1 SOC-15 Interns"
"— White 64% 62% 60% 54% 56% 401-1 SOC-15 Attrition Rate Total Attrition Rate 5.3% 14.5% 13.1% 4.9% 4.3% 401-1 SOC-6 Voluntary Attrition 3.0% 5.0% 5.6% 3.9% 3.6% 401-1 SOC-6 Voluntary Attrition — Women 2.8% 5.3% 5.0% 4.2% 3.7% 401-1 SOC-6 Voluntary Attrition — Men 3.1% 4.9% 5.9% 3.9% 3.5% 401-1 SOC-6 Voluntary Attrition — U.S. POC 2.9% 4.8% 5.7% 3.1% 2.5% 401-1 SOC-6 U.S. Voluntary Attrition by race/ethnicity White 3.7% 6.8% 6.7% 4.6% 4.1% 401-1 SOC-6 Hispanic or Latino 2.2% 5.2% 4.7% 3.5% 2.7%"
"401-1 SOC-6 Asian 4.1% 2.9% 6.7% 3.1% 3.0% 401-1 SOC-6 Black or African American 4.2% 4.0% 6.9% 3.6% 1.3% 401-1 SOC-6 American Indian or Alaska Native 1.4% 7.8% 6.5% 1.2% 2.9% 401-1 SOC-6 Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander 0.0% 6.7% 0.0% 6.6% 0.0% 401-1 SOC-6 Two+ races 0.0% 7.3% 7.3% 1.9% 1.7% 401-1 SOC-6 Voluntary Attrition less than 5 years of tenure 2.5% 8.4% 7.6% 4.7% 3.8% 401-1 SOC-6 Training and development Training of petrotechnical employees (Hours of training/employee) 27.1 21.5 23.1"
"28.5 20.2 404-2 SOC-7 Average spent on training per employee (in dollars) $948 $889 $1,071 $1,043 $1,050 SOC-7 Governance Board24 Independent Members 92% 80% 86% 83% 83% Women 31% 27% 29% 17% 25% 405-1-a-i Men 69% 73% 71% 83% 75% 405-1-a-i Exploration and production Average daily net production25 Crude oil (MBD) 568 829 898 936 982 EM-EP-000.A NGL (MBD) 105 142 252 287 312 EM-EP-000.A Bitumen (MBD) 55 69 66 81 122 EM-EP-000.A Natural gas (MMCFD) 2,394 3,162 3,130 3,135 3,433 EM-EP-000.A Total"
"(MBOED) 1,127 1,567 1,738 1,826 1,987 EM-EP-000.A Total Operated Production (MMBOE)26 471 694 688 688 733 Total Proved Reserves at Year-End (million BOE) 4,459 6,101 6,599 6,758 7,812 Proved Reserves in Low-Transparency Countries27 5.1% 3.6% 3.8% 3.4% 4.5% EM-EP-510a.1  Notes 1  Data does not include heritage Marathon Oil assets unless otherwise noted. 2 The Global Warming Potential (GWP) values from the Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) were"
"adopted in 2024 to align with most  reporting methodologies used in the regions we operate, and in alignment with the GHG Protocol. This adjustment applies exclusively to the metrics for the year 2024 presented in the  performance tables, and to our 2016 baseline target year for GHG intensity, as is standard practice, to ensure consistency between base year and future target years. As a result of this  adjustment, the company total gross operated GHG emissions changes for the baseline year 2016"
"have been revised from 26.8 to 27.4 million tonnes of CO2e. Similarly, the values for 2024  have been updated from 16.2 to 16.4 million tonnes of CO2e. 3 ConocoPhillips began operations of heritage Marathon Oil assets on November 22, 2024. Heritage Marathon Oil emissions data is not included in ConocoPhillips’ total GHG metrics for  2024 due to limited time for data assurance and therefore is presented separately. 4 The denominator uses net production values reported in the ConocoPhillips Annual"
"Report, which represent the company’s equity share of total production. 5 GHG intensity target excludes emissions from exploration and transportation services (i.e., Polar Tankers and Global Aviation), which are not directly related to oil or gas production.  6 Data is based on assets where we have operational control. Environmental data is represented as 100% ownership interest and aligned with financial reporting. To provide the most current  and accurate data available, we update previously"
"reported data for prior years as needed. 7 Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions divided by sales and other operating revenues. Source: ConocoPhillips Annual Report and is inclusive of heritage Marathon Oil assets. 8 Includes CO2 from operations, methane (CO2e), nitrous oxide (CO2e). 9 Includes emissions related to unplanned events/incidents and emissions from Sulfur Hexaflouride. 10 Routine flaring is defined per the World Bank’s Zero Routine by 2030 initiative. 11 Total flaring volume represents total"
"hydrocarbon content flared. Nonroutine/safety flaring is included in the total flaring volume. 12 Includes produced water recycled for production steam generation or hydraulic fracturing and reused for enhanced oil recovery. 13 The term “environment” refers to the natural environment, including soil, surface water, groundwater and ice covered surfaces. 14 No spills in this section were deemed as to the environment, per local regulatory requirements. 15 Regulatory definitions for hazardous and"
"nonhazardous waste vary between countries and jurisdictions. Data is based on country and jurisdictional definitions. 16 The variance in waste volumes is due primarily to increased well production and an improved methodology to determine waste quantities and the allocation of hazardous and recycled  waste in the Canadian and Lower 48 Business Units. 17 2024 safety metrics include incidents but do not include work hours November 22, 2024 - December 31, 2024 for heritage Marathon Oil assets. 18"
"Rate of process safety events of greater consequence as defined by API 752 and IOGP 456 Standards. 19 Social metrics reflect full year economic contributions, including heritage Marathon Oil assets following the acquisition. Workforce metrics reflect all employees at year-end, including  heritage Marathon Oil employees. 20 Payments to vendors and suppliers is an estimate based on Production and Operating Expenses and Capital Program. 21 Employee headcount based on active employees as of December"
"31, 2024. 22 U.S. workforce demographics account only for self-reported data. 23 POC: People of Color (includes ethnic/racial groups defined per the U.S. Census). 24 As of December 31, 2024. 25 Production data is average daily net production from continuing operations. Source: ConocoPhillips Annual Report and is inclusive of one month of heritage Marathon Oil assets. 26 Data is normalized using barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) from production operations, including gas plant liquid production of"
"ethane, propane, butane and condensate and production from  third-party gas not accounted for in production operations. For gas production, 6,000 standard cubic feet of gas is assumed to equal one BOE. 27 In the 20 lowest-ranked countries per Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index. Units of measure MBD    thousands of barrels per day. MBOED   thousands of barrels of oil equivalent per day. MMCFD   millions of cubic feet per day. Represents quantities available for sale and"
"excludes gas equivalent of natural gas liquids. MMBTU    millions of British Thermal Units. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Performance by year 77  GHGs: Heritage Marathon Oil Corporation ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 GHGs: Heritage Marathon Oil Corporation 78 Operated total Metric 2024 Heritage Marathon Oil Corporation1 GHGs (thousand tonnes) CO2 from Operations 234 CO2e from Imported Electricity 32 Methane (CO2e) 45 Nitrous Oxide (CO2e) <1 Total GHGs 311 1  On November"
"22, 2024, ConocoPhillips completed the acquisition of Marathon Oil Corporation. From that date forward, the total greenhouse gas emissions have been calculated,  encompassing all operated assets from the Lower 48 and Equatorial Guinea.  Performance by country1 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Performance by country 79 Operated total Metric U.S. Canada Norway/UK Australia All others2 Total Climate and Air Emissions GHGs (thousand tonnes) CO2 from Operations 6,733 3,124 1,114 2,175 0"
"13,146 CO2 from Imported Electricity 671 247 13 0 0 932 Methane (CO2e) 2,250 36 20 34 0 2,341 Nitrous Oxide (CO2e) 9 7 3 2 0 21 Total GHGs (CO2e) 9,663 3,414 1,150 2,211 0 16,438 Total GHG Intensity (kg CO2e/BOE) 19.7 50.0 13.3 25.3 0 22.4 Flaring Volume (million cubic feet) 17,763 448 298 1,662 0 20,171 Other air emissions (tonnes) Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) 74,165 377 2,222 77 0 76,841 Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) 41,075 2,266 1,549 1,310 0 46,200 Sulfur Oxides (SOx) 1,286 1,531 120 10 0 2,947"
"Particulate Matter (PM) 1,535 142 67 54 0 1,798 Energy use (trillion BTUs) Combustion Energy 88 57 17 38 0 200 Imported Electricity 6 2 <1 0 0 8 Total Energy 94 59 17 38 0 208 Environment Water Fresh Water Withdrawn (million cubic meters) 5.2 2.1 1.5 <0.1 0 9 Non-Fresh Water Withdrawn  (million cubic  meters) 23.3 0.1 23.9 0 0 47 Produced Water Recycle/Reuse3  (million cubic meters) 53.3 23.4 0 0 0 77 Hydrocarbons in Overboard Discharges  (tonnes) 0 0 117 0 0 117 Liquid hydrocarbon spills to the"
"environment Number of Spills > 100 Barrels 2 0 0 0 0 2 Volume of Spills > 100 Barrels (barrels) 777 0 0 0 0 777 Number of Spills > 1 Barrel 32 0 2 0 0 34 Volume of Spills > 1 Barrel (barrels) 1,039 0 48 0 0 1,087 Volume Recovered from Spills > 1 Barrel  (barrels) 528 0 0 0 0 528 Waste (tonnes)4 Hazardous Waste 17 223,094 4,404 8 0 227,523 Nonhazardous Waste 600,230 159,288 2,852 137 0 762,507 Recycled Waste 19,085 17,609 8,043 730 0 45,467 Total Waste Generated 619,332 399,991 15,299 875 0"
"1,035,497 Waste Disposed 600,247 382,382 7,256 145 0 990,030  Operated total continued Notes 1 Data does not include heritage Marathon Oil Corporation unless otherwise noted. 2  All Others includes Malaysia operated assets. No emissions related activity in 2024 to report. 3 Includes produced water recycled for steam generation or hydraulic fracturing and reused for enhanced oil recovery. 4 Regulatory definitions for hazardous and nonhazardous waste vary between countries and jurisdictions. Data"
"is based on country and jurisdictional definitions. 5 Workforce for All Others includes China, Equatorial Guinea, Malaysia and other small operations.  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Performance by country 80 Metric U.S. Canada Norway/UK Australia All others Total Global Workforce5 Employees at Year-End 7,950 950 1,950 300 650 11,800 Employees — Women 29% 25% 21% 22% 32% 27% Employees — Men 71% 75% 79% 78% 68% 73% All Leadership — Women 26% 24% 22% 18% 35% 26% All Leadership — Men 74%"
"76% 78% 82% 65% 74% Top Leadership  — Women 27% 29% 19% 0% 0% 26% Top Leadership — Men 73% 71% 81% 100% 100% 74% Junior Leadership  — Women 26% 24% 22% 20% 36% 26% Junior Leadership — Men 74% 76% 78% 80% 64% 74% Professional  — Women 32% 30% 27% 20% 40% 31% Professional — Men 68% 70% 73% 80% 60% 69% Petrotechnical  —  Women 20% 20% 30% 13% 26% 22% Petrotechnical — Men 80% 80% 70% 87% 74% 78% Avg. Years of Service 9.9 9.4 14.3 8.1 10.4 10.6 Avg. Years of Experience 17.1 20.5 21.2 20.9 13.7 18.0"
"Employees by Age Group Under 30 9% 4% 6% 5% 4% 8% 30–50 62% 70% 51% 70% 78% 62% 51+ 29% 27% 43% 26% 17% 31% Production Total Operated Production (MMBOE) 490 68 86 87 0 733  AXPC ESG metrics template1,2,3,4 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 AXPC ESG metric template 81 Topic Metric Units 2021 2022 2023 2024 Additional comments Greenhouse  gas  emissions Scope 1 GHG Emissions metric tons  CO2e 5,880,410 5,740,354 7,908,938 8,154,800 The increase is due to more  reportable emissions and"
"changes  in calculation methodology  resulting from updated Subpart W  regulation. Scope 1 GHG Intensity GHG Emissions/Gross Annual  Production as Reported Under  Subpart W metric tons  CO2e/ MBOE 13.6 15.0 19.6 19.3 Percent of GHG Emissions  Attributed to Gathering and  Boosting Segment % 21% 23% 23% 62% Scope 2 GHG Emissions metric tons  CO2e 555,892 708,335 703,688 670,631 Scope 1 and 2 Combined GHG  Intensity Scope 1 GHG Emissions +  Scope 2 GHG Emissions/Gross  Annual Production as Reported"
"Under Subpart W metric tons  CO2e/ MBOE 14.9 16.8 21.3 20.4 Scope 1 Methane Emissions metric tons  CH4 62,181 59,117 126,385 78,680 Scope 1 Methane Intensity Scope 1 Methane Emissions/ Gross Annual Production as  Reported Under Subpart W metric tons  CH4/MBOE 0.14 0.15 0.31 0.19 Percent of Methane Emissions  Attributed to Gathering and  Boosting Segment % 11% 14% 11% 45% Flaring Gross Annual Volume of  Flared Gas MCF n/a n/a n/a n/a Please refer to our Flaring  definitions and volumes as"
"reported  in Performance Metrics by Country. Percentage of Gas Flared Per  MCF of Gas Produced Gross Annual Volume of Flared  Gas/Gross Annual Gas  Production % n/a n/a n/a n/a Please refer to our Flaring  definitions and volumes as reported  in Performance Metrics by Country. Volume of Gas Flared per  Barrel of Oil Equivalent  Produced Gross Annual Volume of Flared  Gas/Gross Annual Production MCF/BOE n/a n/a n/a n/a Please refer to our Flaring  definitions and volumes as reported  in"
"Performance Metrics by Country. Spills Spill Intensity Produced Liquids Spilled/Total  Produced Liquids BBL/MBBL n/a n/a n/a n/a Please refer to our Hydrocarbon  Spills related data as reported in  Performance Metrics by Country.  ConocoPhillips follows the Ipieca  Sustainability Reporting Guidance  for the Oil and Gas Industry. This  scope of this guidance pertains to  hydrocarbon spills over 1 bbl and  that is what is reported in our  performance metrics tables. We do  not report on other"
"liquid spill  media. Water use Fresh Water Intensity Fresh Water Consumed/Gross  Annual Production BBL/BOE 0.08 0.05 0.05 0.06 BOE expressed as BOE EUR for  unconventional assets. Water Recycle Rate Recycled Water/Total Water  Consumed BBL/BBL 63% 60% 88% 63% Does your company use WRI  Aqueduct, GEMI, Water Risk  Filter, Water Risk Monetizer, or  other comparable tool or  methodology to determine the  water-stressed areas in your  portfolio? yes/no yes yes yes yes  AXPC ESG metrics"
"template1,2,3,4 continued 1  Data does not include heritage Marathon Oil assets unless otherwise noted. 2  The basis for the data in the table is defined by AXPC. The GHG data reported is for U.S. operated assets reporting under Subpart W and other metrics corresponding to U.S. operations. 3 Safety-related data for 2021 and 2022 has been restated to reflect all U.S. operated assets. Rates for 2021 and 2022 are shown including COVID-19 work-related illnesses experienced in  2021 and 2022 as"
"defined by OSHA. 4 In 2024 safety metrics include incidents but does not include work hours for heritage Marathon Oil Corporation from November 22 to December 2024. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 AXPC ESG metric template 82 Topic METRIC UNITS 2021 2022 2023 2024 ADDITIONAL COMMENTS Safety Employee TRIR # of Employee OSHA  Recordable Cases x 200,000/ Annual Employee Workhours 0.56 0.66 0.38 0.15 Contractor TRIR # of Contractor OSHA  Recordable Cases x 200,000/ Annual Contractor"
"Workhours 0.42 0.2 0.14 0.14 Combined TRIR # of Combined OSHA  Recordable Cases x 200,000/ Annual Combined Workhours 0.44 0.24 0.16 0.14 Supporting data Gross Annual Oil Production BBL 303,290,000 349,330,000 368,910,000 388,220,000 Gross Annual Gas Production MCF 661,420,000 567,090,000 567,020,000 614,292,700 Gross Annual Production BOE 412,000,000 443,880,000 463,361,600 490,420,000 Gross Annual Production MBOE 412,000 443,880 463,362 490,420 Gross Annual Production as  Reported Under Subpart"
"W MBOE 432,458 384,779 404,100 422,317 Total Produced Liquids MBBL n/a n/a n/a n/a Please refer to our Hydrocarbon  Spills related data as reported in  Performance Metrics by Country. ConocoPhillips follows the Ipieca  Sustainability Reporting Guidance  for the Oil and Gas Industry. This  scope of this guidance pertains to  hydrocarbon spills over 1 bbl and  that is what is reported in our  performance metrics tables. We do  not report on other liquid spill  media. Produced Liquids Spilled BBL"
"n/a n/a n/a n/a Please refer to our Hydrocarbon  Spills related data as reported in  Performance Metrics by Country. ConocoPhillips follows the Ipieca  Sustainability Reporting Guidance  for the Oil and Gas Industry. This  scope of this guidance pertains to  hydrocarbon spills over 1 bbl and  that is what is reported in our  performance metrics tables. We do  not report on other liquid spill  media. Fresh Water Consumed BBL 35,360,000 32,124,525 43,260,804 31,824,658 Recycled Water BBL"
"342,740,000 312,059,370 306,359,364 335,552,024 Total Water Consumed BBL 546,496,000 523,078,260 349,797,688 529,680,128 Employee OSHA Recordable  Cases # of cases 20 24 14 6 Contractor OSHA Recordable  Cases # of cases 111 76 59 73 Combined OSHA Recordable  Cases # of cases 131 100 73 79 Annual Employee Workhours # of hours 7,190,565 7,230,395 7,437,885 7,904,451 Annual Contractor Workhours # of hours 52,769,789 76,080,186 82,689,791 104,194,051 Methodology Employee workhours based on"
"headcount reports from HR.  Contractor hours based on factors  applied to spend (by activity type). Annual Combined Workhours # of hours 59,960,354 83,310,581 90,127,676 112,098,502  API template for GHG reporting1 ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 API template for GHG reporting 83 IPCC AR GWP: AR5 Basis: Operated No. Indicator Units 2021 2022 2023 2024 1. Direct GHG Emissions (Scope 1) 1.1 Direct GHG Emissions (Scope 1) — All GHGs million metric tons CO2e 17.7 15.0 16.4 15.5 1.1.1"
"Upstream — All GHGs million metric tons CO2e 15.3 12.5 14.1 13.0 1.1.1.1 Methane (CH4) million metric tons CO2e 1.7 1.7 3.3 2.3 1.1.1.2 Upstream Flaring — All GHGs (subset of  Direct GHG Emissions – Scope 1) million metric tons CO2e 1.9 1.5 2.2 2.1 1.1.1.3 Volume of Flares mmcf 19,615 17,182 20,736 18,509 1.1.2 Midstream — All GHGs million metric tons CO2e n/a n/a n/a n/a 1.1.2.1 Methane (CH4) million metric tons CO2e n/a n/a n/a n/a 1.1.3 Downstream — All GHGs million metric tons CO2e n/a n/a"
"n/a n/a 1.1.4 LNG  — All GHGs million metric tons CO2e 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.2 1.1.5 Oil and Natural Gas Field Services — All GHGs million metric tons CO2e 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 2.  Indirect GHG Emissions from Imported Energy (Scope 2) 2.1 Indirect GHG Emissions from Imported Electricity + Heat +  Steam + Cooling (Scope 2, Market-based) 1.03 1.06 1.00 0.93 2.1.1 Upstream — All GHGs million metric tons CO2e 1.01 1.06 1.00 0.93 2.1.2 Midstream — All GHGs million metric tons CO2e n/a n/a n/a n/a 2.1.3 Downstream"
"— All GHGs million metric tons CO2e n/a n/a n/a n/a 2.1.4 LNG — All GHGs million metric tons CO2e 0 0 0 0 2.1.5 Oil and Natural Gas Field Services — All GHGs million metric tons CO2e 0.02 0.002 0.002 0.001 3.  GHG Mitigation 3.1 GHG Mitigation from CCUS, Credits, and Offsets million metric tons CO2e n/a n/a n/a n/a 3.1.1 Carbon Capture Utilization and Storage (CCUS) — All GHGs million metric tons CO2e n/a n/a n/a n/a 3.1.2 Renewable Energy Credits — (RECs for Indirect Emissions)  —  All GHGs"
"million metric tons CO2e n/a n/a n/a n/a 3.1.3 Offsets — All GHGs million metric tons CO2e n/a n/a n/a n/a 4.  Intensity — GHG Emissions 4.1 Scope 1 + Scope 2 Upstream GHG Intensity kilograms CO2e/BOE 26.70 22.45 24.82 21.55 4.2 Scope 1 Upstream Methane Intensity kilograms CO2e/BOE 2.84 2.75 5.39 3.57 4.3 Scope 1 Upstream Flaring Intensity kilograms CO2e/BOE 3.07 2.52 3.66 3.24 4.4 Scope 1 + Scope 2 Liquids Pipelines Transmission GHG  Intensity million metric tons CO2e/  throughput in barrel-"
"miles n/a n/a n/a n/a 4.5 Scope 1 Natural Gas Pipelines Transmission and Storage  Methane Intensity % n/a n/a n/a n/a 4.6 Scope 1 + Scope 2 Downstream GHG Intensity kilograms CO2e/BOE n/a n/a n/a n/a 4.7 Scope 1 + Scope 2 LNG GHG Intensity million metric tons CO2e/ mmcf 0.0000044 0.0000045 0.0000044 0.0000044 4.8 Additional Intensity Metrics, if applicable (e.g., further  disaggregated by constituent GHG or by more granular  business asset, and/or for additional business assets beyond  these"
"categories) yes/no no no no no  API template for GHG reporting1 continued ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 API template for GHG reporting 84 No. Indicator Units 2021 2022 2023 2024 5.  Indirect GHG Emissions from Consumers' use of Products (Scope 3) Attention: Scope 3 emissions from the use of sold products are released when the hydrocarbons produced and marketed by natural gas and oil companies are  combusted by consumers. GHG emissions from the use of sold products are not within a"
"company’s control, and it should be noted that not 100% of the hydrocarbon  products produced/refined/sold by the company may be combusted at the end of the product life cycle. Scope 3 emissions lead to extensive multiple counting of GHG  emissions across the economy. Therefore, it is inaccurate to add together Scope 3 emissions reported by individual companies in order to ascertain GHG emissions  from consumers’ use of oil and natural gas products. For example, an oil and natural gas company’s"
"Scope 3 emissions represent Scope 1 and/or Scope 2 emissions for  fuel consumers (e.g., electric utility combusting natural gas, individuals using gasoline, manufacturers purchasing natural gas to power their operations). Scope 3  emissions on an individual company basis are not an indicator whether global GHG emissions are being reduced and do not provide context of how GHG emissions fit  within the global energy system. Scope 3 emissions are also not indicative of a company’s strategy to"
"manage potential climate risks and opportunities nor of a  company’s commercial strategy or viability. 5.1 Indirect GHG Emissions from Use of Sold Products  (Category 11) million metric tons CO2e 197.6 207.9 217.9 235.0 6. Additional Climate-Related Targets and Reporting 6.1 GHG Reduction Target(s) yes/no yes yes yes yes 6.2 TCFD-informed reporting2 yes/no yes yes yes yes 6.3 Additional Climate Reporting Resources 7. Third-party Verification 7.1 Assurance level Limited Limited Limited Limited"
"7.2 Assurance provider ERM ERM LRQA Inc. LRQA Inc. 1 Data does not include heritage Marathon Oil assets unless otherwise noted. 2 TCFD has been incorporated into the International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) IFRS S2, a global baseline for climate-related disclosures designed to provide  investors and other capital market participants with consistent, comparable, and decision-useful information about climate-related risks and opportunities. IFRS S2 builds  on the TCFD framework and"
"incorporates industry-based metrics to enhance transparency and accountability. ConocoPhillips has utilized ISSB IFRS S2 to inform the 2024  Sustainability Report.   Data quality and assurance The accuracy of the information reflected in our report is very important to us. ConocoPhillips reports our sustainability  performance using internationally recognized reporting standards and frameworks. The 2024 Sustainability Report covers  data from January 1 to December 31, 2024. Our reporting is in"
"accordance with the GRI Standards and references guidance and standards developed by Ipieca, ISSB IFRS  S2 and SASB. LRQA Inc. provided independent limited assurance of the disclosures and the 2024 data for the metrics in the  performance tables.   Read the most recent LRQA assurance statements (sustainability report and GHG emissions inventory). The ConocoPhillips Internal Audit group, which reports to the Audit and Finance Committee, also provided limited assurance of  the data included in the"
"report. ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Disclosure, data quality and assurance 85  Abbreviations AFC Audit and Finance Committee  AFCD  Americans for Carbon Dividends  API American Petroleum Institute  APLNG  Australia Pacific Liquefied Natural Gas  APS  IEA Announced Pledges Scenario  AXPC  American Exploration and Production Council  BBL  barrel  BCA  border carbon adjustment  BCF  billions of cubic feet  BCFD  billions of cubic feet per day  BLM  Bureau of Land Management  BOE"
"barrel of oil equivalent  BRT  Business Roundtable  BU  business unit  CBAM  European Union Carbon Border    Adjustment Mechanism  CCIWG Climate Change Issues Working Group  CCS  carbon capture and storage  CLC  Climate Leadership Council  CO2e  carbon dioxide equivalent  COSIA  Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance  CPLC  Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition  DEI  diversity, equity and inclusion  DJSI  Dow Jones Sustainability Index  E&P  exploration and production  EEOC  U.S. Equal Employment"
"Opportunity    Commission EIS Environmental Impact Statement  ELT  Executive Leadership Team  EOR  enhanced oil recovery  EPA  Environmental Protection Agency  ERM  enterprise risk management  EU ETS  European Union Emissions Trading System  EUR  estimated ultimate recovery  EVP  executive vice president  GFANZ  Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net-Zero  GHG  greenhouse gas  GRI  Global Reporting Initiative  GWSC  Global Water Sustainability Center  HCM  human capital management  HRCC  Human"
"Resources and Compensation    Committee  HSE  health, safety and environment  IEA  International Energy Agency  IETA  International Emissions Trading Association  IFRS       International Financial Reporting Standard  IOGP  International Oil & Gas Producers Association  IPBES  Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on    Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services  ISSB        International Sustainability Standards Board  IUCN  International Union for Conservation of Nature  IWG  issues working group"
"LCT  Low Carbon Technologies  LNG  liquefied natural gas LRP  Long-Range Plan  ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Abbreviations 86  MACC  marginal abatement cost curve  MM  millions  MMBBL  millions of barrels  MMBOD millions of barrels per day  MMBOE millions of barrels of oil equivalent  MMBOED millions of barrels of oil equivalent per day  MMCF  millions of cubic feet  MMCFD  millions of cubic feet per day  MMBTU  millions of British thermal units  NGO  nongovernmental organization"
"NPC National Petroleum Council  NPR-A  National Petroleum Reserve – Alaska  NZAC  Net-Zero Advisory Council  NZE  IEA Net Zero Emissions Scenario  NZEC  Net-Zero Executive Council  NZLT  Net-Zero Leadership Team  OECD  Organisation for Economic Co-operation    and Development OGMP 2.0 Oil and Gas Methane Partnership 2.0  OSRO  Oil Spill Removal Organization  POC  People of Color  PPSC  Public Policy and Sustainability Committee  PSP  Permian Strategic Partnership SAGD  steam-assisted gravity"
"drainage  SASB   Sustainability Accounting Standards Board  SBTN  Science Based Targets Network  SD  sustainable development  SDGs  United Nations Sustainable    Development Goals  SDLT  Sustainable Development Leadership Team  SEC  Securities and Exchange Commission SOR  steam-oil ratio  SPEC Sustainability and Public Policy    Executive Council  STEPS  IEA Stated Policies Scenario  SVP  senior vice president  TCFD  Task Force on Climate-related    Financial Disclosures  TMT  Talent Management"
"Team  TNFD  Taskforce on Nature-related Financial    Disclosures  TRR  total recordable rate, also referred to as    total recordable incident rate (TRIR)  VCIP  Variable Cash Incentive Program  VIA values and interest assessment  VPSHR Voluntary Principles on Security    and Human Rights  WRI  World Resources Institute  WTI  West Texas Intermediate ConocoPhillips Sustainability Report 2024 Abbreviations 87  CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR THE PURPOSES OF THE SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE"
"SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 This report contains forward-looking statements as defined under the federal securities laws. Forward-looking  statements relate to future events, including, without limitation, statements regarding our future financial  position, business strategy, budgets, projected revenues, costs and plans, objectives of management for future  operations, the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of Marathon Oil Corporation (Marathon Oil), the anticipated  impact of"
"our acquisition of Marathon Oil on the combined company’s business and future financial and  operating results and the expected amount and timing of synergies from our acquisition of Marathon Oil and  other aspects of our operations or operating results. Words and phrases such as “ambition,” “anticipate,”  “believe,” “budget,” “continue,” “could,” “effort,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “goal,” “guidance,” “intend,”  “may,” “objective,” “outlook,” “plan,” “potential,” “predict,”"
"“projection,” “seek,” “should,” “target,” “will,” “would,”  and other similar words can be used to identify forward-looking statements. However, the absence of these  words does not mean that the statements are not forward-looking. Where, in any forward-looking statement, the  company expresses an expectation or belief as to future results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good  faith and believed to be reasonable at the time such forward-looking statement is made. However, these"
"statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and other factors  beyond our control. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or  forecast in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially  from what is presented include, but are not limited to, the following: effects of volatile commodity prices,  including prolonged periods of low commodity prices,"
"which may adversely impact our operating results and our  ability to execute on our strategy and could result in recognition of impairment charges on our long-lived assets,  leaseholds and nonconsolidated equity investments; global and regional changes in the demand, supply, prices,  differentials or other market conditions affecting oil and gas, including changes as a result of any ongoing  military conflict and the global response to such conflict, security threats on facilities and"
"infrastructure, global  health crises, the imposition or lifting of crude oil production quotas or other actions that might be imposed by  OPEC and other producing countries or the resulting company or third-party actions in response to such  changes; the potential for insufficient liquidity or other factors, such as those described herein, that could  impact our ability to repurchase shares and declare and pay dividends, whether fixed or variable; potential  failures or delays in achieving"
"expected reserve or production levels from existing and future oil and gas  developments, including due to operating hazards, drilling risks and the inherent uncertainties in predicting  reserves and reservoir performance; reductions in our reserve replacement rates, whether as a result of  significant declines in commodity prices or otherwise; unsuccessful exploratory drilling activities or the inability  to obtain access to exploratory acreage; failure to progress or complete announced and"
"future development  plans related to constructing, modifying or operating E&P and LNG facilities, or unexpected changes in costs,  inflationary pressures or technical equipment related to such plans; significant operational or investment  changes imposed by legislative and regulatory initiatives and international agreements addressing  environmental concerns, including initiatives addressing the impact of global climate change, such as limiting or  reducing GHG emissions, regulations concerning"
"hydraulic fracturing, methane emissions, flaring or water  disposal and prohibitions on commodity exports; broader societal attention to and efforts to address climate  change may cause substantial investment in and increased adoption of competing or alternative energy sources;  risks, uncertainties and high costs that may prevent us from successfully executing on our Climate Risk  Strategy; lack or inadequacy of, or disruptions in, reliable transportation for our crude oil, bitumen, natural"
"gas,  LNG and NGLs; inability to timely obtain or maintain permits, including those necessary for construction, drilling  and/or development, or inability to make capital expenditures required to maintain compliance with any  necessary permits or applicable laws or regulations; potential disruption or interruption of our operations and  any resulting consequences due to accidents, extraordinary weather events, supply chain disruptions, civil  unrest, political events, war, terrorism,"
"cybersecurity threats or information technology failures, constraints or  disruptions; liability for remedial actions, including removal and reclamation obligations, under existing or future  environmental regulations and litigation; liability resulting from pending or future litigation or our failure to  comply with applicable laws and regulations; general domestic and international economic, political and  diplomatic developments, including deterioration of international trade relationships,"
"the imposition of trade  restrictions or tariffs relating to commodities and material or products (such as aluminum and steel) used in the  operation of our business, expropriation of assets, changes in governmental policies relating to commodity  pricing, including the imposition of price caps, sanctions or other adverse regulations or taxation policies;  competition and consolidation in the oil and gas E&P industry, including competition for sources of supply,  services, personnel and"
"equipment; any limitations on our access to capital or increase in our cost of capital or  insurance, including as a result of illiquidity, changes or uncertainty in domestic or international financial  markets, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations or investment sentiment; challenges or delays to our  execution of, or successful implementation of the acquisition of Marathon Oil or any future asset dispositions or  acquisitions we elect to pursue; potential disruption of our operations,"
"including the diversion of management  time and attention; our inability to realize anticipated cost savings or capital expenditure reductions; difficulties  integrating acquired businesses and technologies; or other unanticipated changes; our inability to deploy the net  proceeds from any asset dispositions that are pending or that we elect to undertake in the future in the manner  and timeframe we anticipate, if at all; the operation, financing and management of risks of our joint ventures;"
"the  ability of our customers and other contractual counterparties to satisfy their obligations to us, including our  ability to collect payments when due from the government of Venezuela or PDVSA; uncertainty as to the long- term value of our common stock; and other economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting  our business generally as set forth in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Unless legally  required, ConocoPhillips expressly disclaims any"
"obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether  as a result of new information, future events or otherwise . Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors – The SEC permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to  disclose only proved, probable and possible reserves. We may use the term “resource” in this report that the  SEC’s guidelines prohibit us from including in filings with the SEC. U.S. investors are urged to consider closely  the oil and gas disclosures in our Form"
"10-K and other reports and filings with the SEC. Copies are available from  the SEC and from the ConocoPhillips website. Published June 24, 2025 Explore  ConocoPhillips Annual Report The ConocoPhillips Annual Report and  Form 10-K provides details on the  company’s financial and operating  performance, a letter from our chairman  and chief executive officer, and additional  shareholder information. conocophillips.com/annualreport Proxy statement Published annually and sent to  stockholders"
"informing them of when and  where our Annual Meeting of Stockholders  is taking place and detailing the matters to  be voted upon at the meeting.  conocophillips.com/proxy Upcoming and Past  Investor Presentations Provides notice of future and archived  presentations dating back one year, including  webcast replays, transcripts and slides.  conocophillips.com/investors  © ConocoPhillips Company, 2025. All rights reserved."
