"FY24 Purpose Report Celebrating 40 Years of Impact  Introduction         1 About This Report     2 A Message from Chuck Robbins  3 FY24 Purpose Report Highlights        4 40 Years of Impact    5 Goals and Progress    9 Power         11 Responsible AI       12 Security, Privacy, and Trust         13 Human Rights         15 Ethics and Integrity         18 Digital Inclusion    19 Inclusive    20 Inclusion and Collaboration  21 Employee Community Impact    23 Employee Experience  24 Health and"
"Wellbeing         25 Future       26 Clean Energy Transitions     27 Circular Transformation      32 Resilient Ecosystems         35 For All      37 Learning and Digital Skills  38 Cisco Foundation and Social Impact Investments       41 Crisis Response      43 Community Enablement         45 Accessibility        46 Public Policy and Advocacy   47 Looking Ahead        48 Cisco and Splunk: Better Together    49 Our Next Big Ambition: 40 Communities        51 A Message from Fran Katsoudas        52"
"FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking statements regarding future events. All statements other than statements of historical facts  are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates,  forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Readers  are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are"
"subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions  that are difficult to predict, including those identified in our most recent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)  on Form 10‑K and Form 10-Q. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any  obligation to update any forward-looking statement. Cisco continuously strives for transparency in our reporting on our Purpose initiatives, goals, and progress. We set ambitious timelines"
"and goals in an effort to maximize progress, and we strive to transparently report on our progress. It takes time to integrate data from recent acquisitions into the data streams that support our analyses. Therefore, unless otherwise  noted, the information included in this report includes data for acquisitions completed before the end of our previous fiscal year. For  purposes of this report, Splunk´s data is not integrated. Splunk´s fiscal 2024 highlights and accomplishments are included on"
"page 54. The FY24 Purpose Report has been updated as of April 2025 to reflect changes based on limited assurance review of Scope 1-3 emissions,  waste, and water usage data. More information on our independent third-party assurance process, including our fiscal 2024 assurance  statement, is available on our Purpose Reporting Hub. FY24 Purpose Report | 1  Cisco is the worldwide  leader in technology that  powers the Internet. Our products and services include networking,  collaboration, security"
"and observability solutions,  including artificial intelligence (AI)-native networking  and cybersecurity solutions, to help our customers  connect and protect their organizations. Founded 1984 FY24 Highlights US$53.8B revenue 90,400 employees 95 countries ABOUT THIS REPORT This Purpose Report shares Cisco’s  progress in its fiscal year (FY) 2024  toward its Purpose to Power an  Inclusive Future for All. But it is  not the full story of our progress.  Throughout the report, we provide  links to"
"specific pages in our  Purpose Reporting Hub, where  additional details are available. FY24 Purpose Report | 2 Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead Intro  A Message from Chuck Robbins This year, Cisco celebrates 40 years of serving customers, delivering ground-breaking innovation, caring  for communities, and connecting businesses and people to opportunities around the globe. Over the past four decades, we have witnessed  incredible advancements that have shaped our  world and opened the"
"door to endless possibilities.  We’ve also experienced the unprecedented  and navigated the unimaginable. Through it all,  we’ve seen technology’s critical role in both  business and society. Our technology has been at the core of nearly  every major technological shift—changing the way  the world connects. At Cisco, we’re proud of how  our products and services have bridged gaps,  enabled collaboration, and driven sustainability  in meaningful ways. Now AI and its limitless possibilities are"
"rapidly  taking shape. It’s clear this will impact every  organization, industry, community, and person— reimagining the world in countless ways. Some  we can anticipate, and some we can’t yet begin  to imagine. Connection, security, and data will  be paramount in realizing AI's potential, as  will innovating in an ethical, responsible, and  sustainable way. With the recent acquisition of Splunk, Cisco is well  positioned to help customers connect and protect  their businesses in this AI era and"
"drive digital  resilience to prepare for what’s to come. With the  breadth of our portfolio, our passionate teams,  and the trust we’ve earned, we will continue to  innovate and focus on creating opportunities that  will shape the future and bridge the digital divide,  allowing more people to benefit from the global  digital economy. Beyond our innovation, we remain unwavering in  our commitment to make a positive difference in  the world. Last year, we reached our goal to impact  one billion"
"people globally and our teams continue  to show up for communities. In fiscal 2024, for the  fifth year in a row, more than 80% of employees took  action, advocated for, and supported causes they  care about. This exemplifies both our culture and our  people who lead with intention and heart. At Cisco, we prove every day that running a  successful business with a commitment to do good  makes progress possible. While this year marks an  important milestone for our company, we recognize  that our"
"work is far from complete. There will always  be more to do, more challenges to solve, more  potential to realize. I believe that with our people,  passion, and Purpose, we will always be a company  that cares for our customers and partners, our  communities and the planet, and one that innovates  and works hard to create a better, more connected,  and inclusive future for all. Chuck Robbins Chair and Chief Executive Officer “ At Cisco, we prove every day that running  a successful business with"
"a commitment to  do good makes progress possible. FY24 Purpose Report | 3 Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead Intro  FY24 Purpose Report Highlights 40 Years of Impact We leverage our technology, people,  and broader networks to address  society's greatest challenges US$556M  in cash and in-kind  contributions provided  by Cisco and the Cisco  Foundation 720,000 employee volunteer  hours 86% of employees  participated to drive  community impact #1 Best Company to  Work For in 16"
"countries,  according to Fortune  and Great Place to Work 40 Communities Announcing our next  big ambition: over the  next 10 years, we plan  to engage, support, and  invest in 40 communities  around the globe 1,600 Country Digital Acceleration  projects in 50 countries  since 2015 US$35M approved to fund climate  solutions through the  Cisco Foundation  since FY21 96% of electricity for Cisco  facilities came from  renewable sources 96% of new Cisco products  and packaging  incorporate Circular"
"Design Principles 4.7M students reached through  Cisco Networking Academy FY24 Purpose Report | 4 Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead Intro  40 Years of Impact Since Cisco was founded in  1984, Cisco’s technology has  been at the heart of connection. From the very beginning, Cisco’s founders, Leonard  Bosack and Sandy Lerner, envisioned a world  where technology could bridge gaps and create  opportunities. Working in different buildings, Len  and Sandy couldn't email one another because"
"their  computers were on different networks. Eventually,  they figured out a way to connect their computers,  developing the multiprotocol router. Little did they  know that this act would change the world. They  began laying down the digital highways that have  become the backbone of modern communication,  and this foundation has fundamentally changed how  we all live, work, and connect. Today, Internet access has become essential for  human development and economic pathways, and  lack of"
"access means being cut off from health,  education, and social opportunities that many in the  world take for granted. Connection can no longer be  a privilege for some, but a necessity for all. That belief in connection is ingrained in our DNA.  And while our technology drives that connection,  our journey is about more than just technology; it’s  about the impact that we create for the betterment  of people, communities, and the planet. As Cisco has grown, so too has  our commitment to"
"positively  impact the world around us. We know that closing the digital divide would  have a transformative impact on both the lives of  individuals and the global economy. Studies show  that global digital inclusion could bring millions  out of absolute poverty and add trillions to global  economic output. Longstanding programs like  Cisco’s Country Digital Acceleration and Cisco  Networking Academy are helping to bridge this gap,  and we know that this work can’t be done alone.  Expanding"
"online access, harnessing connectivity  around the world, and enabling the future of work  with digital skills training requires collaboration  across all sectors. When we accomplish this, we  scale our impact and create lasting change. FY24 Purpose Report | 5 Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead Intro  Cisco’s legacy is rooted in our  trusted infrastructure, but our  true impact lies in the deeper,  more meaningful connections  that we foster. In 2005, Cisco deployed communications"
"equipment  for first responders in the U.S. Gulf Coast to help  deliver critical humanitarian aid after the devastation  of Hurricane Katrina. In the time since, we have built  a proud legacy of being a private sector leader in  responding to natural disasters and humanitarian  crises, providing on‑the‑ground connectivity for  populations around the world. Our technology drives progress, and our impact  benefits our stakeholders—including the planet. We  set our first GHG emissions reduction"
"goal back  in 2006, and since then we’ve been setting and  achieving a series of five-year goals to reduce our  absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHGs.  2023 was the hottest year ever recorded, and the  impact is being felt around the world—wildfires  burned in the Brazilian Pantanal and parts of  California, and extreme floods swept through areas  ranging from Italy to Pakistan to Nigeria to China.  We’re at a pivotal moment where we need collective  action to help mitigate the worst outcomes of  climate"
"change, and we help our customers and  partners deploy technology that can advance a  more sustainable future for our planet. In 2016, we set an audacious goal to positively  impact one billion lives—approximately  one-eighth of the world’s population—by 2025.  Through the exceptional work of our global nonprofit  partners and signature programs, we achieved  that goal last year—well ahead of schedule. But  we’re not resting on our laurels. In honor of our  40th anniversary, we’re excited to"
"launch our next  big ambition: 40 Communities. Over the next  10 years, we intend to engage, support, and  invest in 40 communities around the world. As we celebrate 40 years of impact, we remain  inspired by the possibilities ahead. We will continue  to question ourselves along the way and focus on  how we can use our unique core competencies to  drive real impact. And as technology and AI's promise is realized  globally, we aim to act intentionally to help ensure  no one is left"
"behind—reinforcing our role as both  a technology leader and a trusted, responsible  partner to all. FY24 Purpose Report | 6 Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead Intro  Our Timeline of Impact 1984 Cisco Systems, Inc. Developed by Sandy Lerner  and Leonard Bosack with  a team of colleagues  at Stanford University,  the multiprotocol router  connected disparate  computer networks and led  to Cisco's founding. 1997 Cisco Foundation Established to support  programs that leverage  the"
"Internet to help  people in need and drive  positive change. Cisco Networking  Academy Launched to educate  high school and college  students on how to  design, install, and  maintain computer  networks. 1998 Cisco Community  Investment Report Published report detailing  Cisco's philanthropic  and community  investment efforts. 1999 NetAid Harnessed the Internet  to raise US$830K to end  global poverty. By live- streaming celebrated  musicians across three  locations, NetAid  garnered 2.4M views"
"across 80 countries and  set a record for the largest  Internet broadcast event  for a single day. 2000 Habitat for Humanity Provided funding  and volunteer support  to build homes and  wire houses for  Internet access. 2005 Corporate  Citizenship Report Made a formal commitment  to transparency and  accountability by  publishing details on  Cisco's Corporate Social  Responsibility efforts. Crisis Response Deployed communications  equipment to assist  emergency personnel in  the aftermath of"
"Hurricane  Katrina and formed a  dedicated emergency  response team. 2006 Goal to Reduce  Emissions Set our first GHG  emissions‑reduction goal. 2011 Veterans Program Established program to help  transitioning U.S. military  veterans and families  find employment and  educational opportunities. On-Campus  Solar Energy Installed first solar energy  project at Cisco’s Research  Triangle Park campus. 2012 Global Human  Rights Policy Formalized our commitment  to respect human rights for  all"
"people. FY24 Purpose Report | 7 Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead Intro  2014 Talos Formed to provide  accurate, rapid, and  actionable threat  intelligence for Cisco  customers, products,  and services.  2015 Country Digital  Acceleration Launched program  to collaborate with  government and  private sector leaders  in building sustainable,  secure, and inclusive  communities—all  powered by innovative  technology solutions. 2016 White House  Equal Pay Pledge Became a founding signer"
"of the White House Equal  Pay Pledge and committed  to paying employees fairly  and equitably. 2018 Homelessness Grant Announced a five-year,  US$50M commitment to  help end homelessness  in Santa Clara County. 2019 Global Citizen Announced a partnership  with Global Citizen to  power the movement to  end extreme poverty. 2020 COVID-19 Response Introduced US$2.5B  financing program to  support customers and  keep businesses running;  donated US$50M in cash  and personal protective  equipment"
"(PPE) to  organizations supporting  vulnerable citizens; and  provided funding to deploy  COVID-19-related  technology solutions. Community  Enablement  Commitment Transformed longstanding  advocacy for community  enablement into a global,  companywide commitment. 2021 Cisco Foundation  Climate Commitment Committed US$100M  over the next 10 years to  address climate change. Net Zero Announced a goal to reach  net-zero GHG emissions  across our value chain  by 2040. 2022 Responsible AI Launched"
"our  Responsible AI (RAI)  Principles and RAI  Framework to formalize  our commitment to build  safe and trustworthy AI. 2023 One Billion Lives Exceeded our goal—ahead  of schedule—to positively  impact one billion people  globally from FY16-FY23  through Cisco Networking  Academy and social  innovation grants. 2024 40 Communities Announced our next big  ambition: over the next 10  years, we intend to engage,  support, and invest in 40  communities around the  globe, striving to create a  more"
"connected, resilient,  and thriving world. FY24 Purpose Report | 8 Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead Intro  Goals and Progress We measure progress on advancing our Purpose to Power an Inclusive Future for All through quantitative enterprise  goals that we report against each year. Here’s where we stand on these goals in fiscal 2024. Our People In FY24: Sustain 80% community impact participation, as measured  by employees’ actions, including donating, volunteering, participating  in"
"programs that positively impact communities, and advocating for  causes they care about. Maintained >80% participation in community  impact for fifth year in a row Digital Impact By FY32: Provide digital and cybersecurity skills training to  25 million more learners over 10 years through Cisco Networking  Academy (FY23 base year). 7.7 million learners trained Note: Progress against all goals listed by fiscal year is measured through the end of the fiscal year. FY24 Purpose Report | 9 Power"
"Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead Intro  Climate Change and  GHG Emissions Net-zero goal: By 2040: Reach net-zero GHG emissions across our value chain  by reducing absolute Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions by 90%  (FY19 base year).1 We are reporting progress through the near-term targets below: By FY25: Reduce absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 90%  (FY19 base year).1,2 74% reduction By FY30: Reduce absolute Scope 3 emissions from purchased goods  and services, upstream transportation and"
"distribution, and use of  sold products by 30% (FY19 base year).3 35% reduction4 Supplier Climate Targets By FY25: 80% of Cisco component, manufacturing, and logistics  suppliers by spend have a public, absolute GHG emissions-reduction  target.5 90% with targets By FY25: 70% of Cisco component and manufacturing suppliers by  spend achieve a zero-waste diversion rate at one or more sites.2,6 64% by spend with at least one certified site Circular Design, Products,  and Packaging By FY25: 100% of"
"new Cisco products and packaging incorporate  Circular Design Principles.7 96% meeting circular design criteria By FY25: Reduce foam used in Cisco product packaging by 75% as  measured by weight (FY19 base year).2 57% reduction By FY25: Increase product packaging cube efficiency by 50%  (FY19 base year).8 76% cumulative improvement By FY25: 50% of the plastic used in our products (by weight) will be  made of recycled content.9 41% recycled content             Note: Progress against all goals"
"listed by fiscal year is measured through the  end of the fiscal year.         1       We intend to neutralize the remaining 10% of emissions by removing an equal  amount from the atmosphere.        2       We continue to make strides towards this fiscal 2025 goal. However, like other  companies with ambitious targets, we are facing headwinds. Regardless, we  will continue to drive meaningful action and innovate toward our goals.      3       The baseline and progress reported for our fiscal"
"2030 goal includes a subset  of Scope 3 Category 1 (purchased goods and services from manufacturing,  component, and warehouse suppliers), a subset of Scope 3 Category 4  (upstream transportation and distribution from Cisco purchased air  transportation), and all of Scope 3 Category 11 (use of sold products).        4       We expect our progress to fluctuate year-over-year based on the number and  type of products we sell each year.         5       Suppliers are expected to set public absolute"
"GHG emissions-reduction  targets or intensity targets that produce an absolute emissions reduction  during the target period. Cisco encourages suppliers to set targets in line  with an approved science‑based methodology. Progress toward this goal is  quantified using Cisco’s supply chain spend, which can vary annually. Cisco  will continue to work with suppliers to set their own absolute GHG emissions- reduction targets, and to report progress toward this goal annually through  fiscal 2025.   6"
"According to current standard definitions used in certification protocols,  “zero-waste” diversion is defined as a 90% or greater overall diversion of solid,  nonhazardous wastes from landfill, incineration (waste-to-energy), and the  environment. Diversion methods can include reduction, reuse, recycling, and/ or compost.     7       The scope of this goal is limited to hardware products and associated packaging,  excluding: standalone components (e.g., chassis, application‑specific integrated"
"circuits (ASICs), optical modules); standalone basic product accessories (e.g.,  power cables, brackets); Original Equipment Manufacturer products (where  Cisco does not own the design); and products and packaging of nonintegrated  acquisitions. Product and packaging designs achieving a score of 75% or higher  are counted toward the goal.        8       Packaging efficiency is measured by comparing the size of the product relative  to the packaging, using dimensional weight. Dimensional weight"
"uses volume  and a standard dimensional factor to calculate the weight of a package. In this  methodology, the packaging efficiency metric is based on the difference of the  normalized dimensional weight (by volume) between the baseline and current  year. This goal applies to high-volume packaging requiring redesigns.          9       The scope of this goal excludes plastics contained in commodity components  (e.g., plastic screws, fans, and cables) and in products designed and  manufactured by"
"our Original Design Manufacturers. FY24 Purpose Report | 10 Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead Intro  Power Power connectivity—and  empower our communities A lot has happened in 40 years of technology: the  Internet, mobile, social media, cloud computing, AI.  Securely powering that technology has only grown  more critical—and more complex—over time. That’s  where Cisco comes in. We build and deliver  technology that powers the world’s connectivity,  whether that's between computers,"
"throughout  communities, or across continents. And we do so  with the highest standards of ethics and integrity  in mind—for ourselves, for our customers and  partners, and for their users. That’s the power, and  importance, of connection. FY24 Purpose Report | 11 Intro Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead Power  Responsible AI Responsible AI practices are at the core  of Cisco’s products and operations. As we continue to navigate the opportunities and challenges of  AI, Cisco remains"
"committed to the responsible, ethical use of  technology. In 2018, Cisco published our commitment to respect  human rights in the design, development, and use of AI. In 2022, we  formalized this commitment by launching our Responsible AI (RAI)  Principles, which we operationalize through our RAI Framework.  Over the last two years, as generative AI has become more prolific,  we have built upon our Principles and Framework to evolve and  mature our AI risk assessment process. That process is"
"specifically  designed to ensure that our RAI Principles carry through our AI use  and development, including as AI is incorporated into our products,  internal operations, and by our vendors. Cisco's RAI Principles also drive our advocacy with governments  and regulators, in an era when public-private sector collaboration  will be critical. Cisco Chair and CEO Chuck Robbins serves on  the U.S. Department of Homeland Security AI Safety and Security  Advisory Board, and Cisco participates in the"
"U.S. Department  of Commerce’s National Institute of Standards and Technology  (NIST) AI Safety Institute Consortium and the Seoul AI Business  Pledge, among others. In April 2024, Chuck Robbins signed the  Vatican‑led Rome Call for AI Ethics, which is supported by more  than 100 organizations. In September 2024, Cisco became a proud  signatory to the European Union (EU) AI Pact to further underscore  our commitment to trustworthy and safe AI development. A critical component to trustworthy and"
"safe AI is equipping the  workers of today and tomorrow with the skills necessary to be  successful in this next frontier of technology. In partnership with  industry peers, Cisco leads the work of the AI-Enabled information  and communication technology (ICT) Workforce Consortium,  to provide organizations with knowledge around the impact of  AI on the workforce and equip workers with relevant upskilling.  The Consortium released “The Transformational Opportunity of  AI on ICT Jobs” report,"
"finding that 92% of jobs analyzed are  expected to undergo either high or moderate transformation due  to advancements in AI. Through the Cisco Networking Academy,  we aspire to train 25 million more people across the world in digital  skills, including AI, by 2032. Look for this icon throughout the report to  discover other ways we integrate AI into our  strategy, products, and services. FY24 Purpose Report | 12 Intro Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead Power  Security, Privacy, and Trust"
"Cisco is committed to being trustworthy,  transparent, and accountable with  the data entrusted to us and the  solutions we deliver to customers. Our solutions are built to protect personal data,  translating into a competitive advantage for  our customers that helps make their critical  infrastructure, applications, and data more secure.  We build trust and confidence with our customers  and stakeholders by sharing our approach across  our portfolio, through solutions designed with  global"
"standards, certifications, and government  regulations in mind. Our security and privacy experts help drive  business resilience and continuity by proactively  detecting, notifying, responding to, and remediating  security incidents. We share cyber-resilience  principles, strategies, and frameworks with  organizations around the world to collectively  raise the bar for heightened global cybersecurity. Driving Transparency  in Product Life Cycles Cisco collaborated with Dell, Microsoft, and"
"others  to launch OpenEoX, a global initiative to standardize  the exchange of end-of-life and end‑of-support  information within the software and hardware  industries. OpenEoX addresses inconsistencies,  enables automation with other tools, and helps  reduce cybersecurity risks, streamlining the  oversight of life cycles of products that businesses  and individuals rely on. Embedding Privacy  by Design Cisco regards privacy as both a fundamental  human right and a business imperative. This"
"approach is consistent with customer priorities.  According to Cisco's 2024 Data Privacy Benchmark  Study, 94% of organizations surveyed said their  customers wouldn't buy from them if their data was  not properly protected. Our Privacy by Design approach, which reflects  our commitment to responsible use of personal  data, helped make Webex the first collaboration  and conferencing solution to achieve Level 3  adherence with the EU Cloud Code of Conduct.  The same privacy practices verified in"
"support of  Level 3 adherence led to the EU Data Protection  Supervisor approving Webex for use across  European Union institutions, including the EU Court  of Justice, demonstrating its trust in Cisco's ability  to securely process and store personal and highly  sensitive data. Securing Global  Data Flow Data is a critical resource for economic resilience  and growth in the digital age, and the data needs  to be managed and used in a way that protects  personal privacy while maintaining"
"organizational  and national security. Cisco helps drive the development and adoption  of Data Free Flow with Trust (DFFT) and actively  participates in the Organisation for Economic  Co-operation and Development (OECD) DFFT  Experts Community. We support DFFT and its goal  to establish common guidelines for G20 nations  to govern cross-border data flows, along with  vital privacy, security, and intellectual property  protection initiatives. Cisco’s own privacy program  was certified under the"
"EU/UK/Swiss-US Data  Privacy Framework and the Asia Pacific Economic  Cooperation Cross Border Privacy Rules and Privacy  Recognition for Processors, enabling international  data transfers with greater trust and certainty. The Cisco Trust Center offers  thought leadership that demonstrates  our approach across our three  key principles of trustworthiness,  transparency, and accountability. FY24 Purpose Report | 13 Intro Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead Power  Cisco Talos Turns 10 For a"
"full decade, Talos has  powered the Cisco portfolio with  threat intelligence—observing over  800 billion security events per day.1 Talos’ mission is to solve security problems, help  secure networks, and protect Cisco’s customers and  the Internet at-large. With a dedicated team made  up of threat researchers, vulnerability analysts,  developers, and even a few rocket scientists, Talos  threat intelligence is deployed directly through Cisco  products to block the latest attacks. We have over 60"
"law enforcement, government,  and industry partners, and we make our open- source tools available for any security defender  to download for use within their organization or  to upskill themselves. In addition, Talos Incident  Response offers trusted proactive and reactive  services to help customers prepare, respond, and  recover from a breach. Since the official launch of Talos, the threat  landscape has changed dramatically—and we  continue to be at the forefront of cybersecurity  defense."
"Some notable examples over the past  10 years include: •       October 2015: Talos shuts down the Angler  exploit kit by updating Cisco products to stop  redirects to the Angler proxy servers. We  estimated that Angler was targeting more than  90,000 users a day and generating US$30 million  annually. •       May 2018: Talos publishes findings on VPNFilter,  a massive malware campaign from Russian  state-sponsored actors. We estimated that  VPNFilter affected more than 500,000 Internet-"
"connected devices. •       February 2022: Talos responds to assist  Ukraine, helping keep critical infrastructure  online and users protected from a barrage of  cyber attacks. Talos is currently helping  to protect 45,000 critical infrastructure endpoints  in Ukraine. •     Fiscal 2024: Talos led Project PowerUp, an  initiative to help keep the lights on in Ukraine in  the face of electronic warfare. We tell the story in  our documentary, “The Light We Keep: A Project  PowerUp Story.”          1"
"800 billion security events per day is a count of security events from SSE, SSX (FW), CSE (Endpoint), Meraki, DUO, ESA (Email), and  integrations into our URL and reputation services. Learn more about the moments  that made Talos. Using AI in Security Response Since the beginning, we have used AI and machine learning (ML) to  create security detections at scale and to assist security analysts. We  use ML in spam detection, email classification, malicious domains,  and more. Our latest ML-based"
"system, SnortML, detects variations in  attacks and automatically blocks them at the source. To increase collaboration, Cisco developed the AI Security  Incident Collaboration Playbook with the U.S. Cybersecurity &  Infrastructure Security Agency, fellow AI providers and security  vendors, and critical infrastructure owners and operators. This  playbook will help coordinate AI security incident response between  governments, industry peers, and global partners to drive toward  a more secure"
"future. FY24 Purpose Report | 14 Intro Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead Power  Human Rights Cisco is committed to upholding human  rights throughout our entire value chain. This includes striving to ensure decent working  conditions for everyone involved in the production of  our products and promoting the responsible design and  use of our products. We published our Global Human  Rights Policy more than a decade ago and continue to  update it regularly to reflect new developments."
"Strengthening Human  Rights Management  and Governance The Business and Human Rights Team guides the  implementation of our Global Human Rights Policy,  while the Supply Chain Sustainability Team conducts  human rights due diligence in our supply chain.  Together, they integrate a human rights approach  into existing and developing policies, programs, and  services; conduct due diligence to identify actual and  potential human rights impacts; and work to ensure that  relevant teams and employees"
"understand their roles  to further Cisco’s commitment to respect the human  rights of all people. This work is overseen by our Chief  Legal Officer, and periodic reports are made to Cisco’s  Board of Directors’ Public Policy Committee on material  risks identified by Cisco’s management and the steps  taken to help address them. This past fiscal year, our Human Rights Advisory  Committee and Supply Chain ESG Committee provided  guidance on human rights risks and strategy. In  addition, Cisco's"
"Supply Chain Operations organization  launched a dedicated human rights steering committee  to further integrate human rights into supply chain  processes and strategies, aiming to more proactively  reduce harm, prevent risk, and achieve positive  outcomes for workers. Identifying Salient Risks Our world is changing fast, particularly with the adoption  of new technologies, like AI. Though this presents  opportunities for innovation, it also comes with a  responsibility to identify potential"
"adverse human  rights impacts. Cisco conducts due diligence to identify salient human  rights impacts, including, but not limited to, those related to: •       Labor practices •       Health and safety •     Privacy •       Freedom of expression •         Freedom from discrimination •   Responsibly sourced minerals We work to address human rights risks by establishing  human rights policies; engaging with potentially affected  stakeholders and their legitimate representatives;  conducting human"
"rights due diligence and audits;  providing training to relevant employees and business  partners to prevent risks; working to remediate actual  impacts; and incorporating our learnings into our policies  and management systems for continuous improvement.  We publicly report this information on Cisco’s Purpose  Reporting Hub. This past year, we conducted human rights due diligence to  identify potential human rights impacts and opportunities to  promote human rights connected to our business"
"presence,  product offerings, and supplier relationships in light of the  evolving human rights landscape and legal requirements in  relevant geographies. Mitigating Risk for  Data Enrichment Workers In fiscal 2024, we conducted a human rights impact assessment to proactively  identify risks to data enrichment workers—individuals tasked with enhancing,  refining, and augmenting raw data, including for AI, to make it more valuable and  actionable. Despite the crucial role of these workers, they"
"may face low wages, job  insecurity, excessive working hours, mental and physical stress, and other potential  risks. This assessment provided us with valuable insights and recommendations  to prevent and mitigate risks to these workers, and we are partnering on various  industry initiatives to elevate these learnings and best practices. FY24 Purpose Report | 15 Intro Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead Power  Working to Uphold Human  Rights Across Our Value Chain Cisco considers potential"
"human rights impacts at every stage of  our value chain. We assess potential impacts on our stakeholders,  including vulnerable workers in our supply chain, users of our  products and solutions, and other impacted populations. Sourcing Minerals Ethically The extraction of minerals presents risk for people and ecosystems.  Although Cisco does not source its minerals from mines, or the  smelters or refiners (SORs) that process them, we work with our  suppliers to prevent sourcing minerals"
"connected to armed conflict,  human rights violations, or environmental degradation. Cisco’s  Responsible Minerals Policy outlines our expectations. In fiscal 2024,  Cisco joined the Initiative for Responsible Mining Assurance to support  the visibility, accountability, and inclusion of rightsholders as decision- makers at all levels of the mineral supply chain. This past fiscal year, Cisco also expanded the scope of our minerals  due diligence. Our program now includes tantalum, tin, tungsten,"
"gold  (3TG), cobalt, lithium, nickel, aluminum, copper, graphite, and other  critical minerals. This due diligence allows us to monitor risks, help  meet regulatory requirements, improve the resilience of Cisco’s supply  chain, and engage upstream to improve on-the-ground conditions in  mining communities. In Cisco’s supply chain, 70% of the 3TG SORs  and 64% of the cobalt refiners reported by our in-scope suppliers  were conformant to or active to a third-party standard in 2023. Collaborating"
"with Suppliers We view collaboration with manufacturing partners as  pivotal to addressing systemic issues, including forced  labor, in the sub-tier supply chain. In fiscal 2024, we  engaged with manufacturing partners in Taiwan to train  their suppliers on risk identification and prevention  of forced labor. Thirty participants from 19 suppliers  attended these training sessions, 12 of which were  sub‑tier suppliers to Cisco. We also facilitated the  return of US$1.7 million to more than 2,000"
"workers  in remediation for forced labor. We are continuing to  work with our manufacturing partners and industry  peers to support the identification and remediation of  forced labor. In addition, in fiscal 2024, we worked with nine  supplier sites to have management engage workers  in improving personal protective equipment (PPE)  for employees. The resulting health and safety  improvements impacted approximately 1,300 workers.  This strategy helps resolve specific health and safety  issues"
"and empowers workers to voice concerns,  innovate, and foster positive relationships  with management. Visit the Supply Chain Sustainability section of our  Purpose Reporting Hub for more information on our  programs and progress. FY24 Purpose Report | 16 Intro Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead Power  Promoting Decent  Working Conditions Supply chain workers in manufacturing facilities  face various potential risks, including forced labor,  occupational injury, excessive working hours,  and"
"more. Cisco’s due diligence program helps  identify, prevent, and mitigate these risks through  assessments, audits, stakeholder engagement, and  continuous monitoring. Cisco is a founder and active member of the  Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), and we  adopted the RBA Code of Conduct as our Supplier  Code of Conduct. We assess our suppliers’  conformance to the Code for labor, health and  safety, environment, and ethics by requesting self- assessments and conducting third-party audits.  In"
"fiscal 2024, we conducted more than 160 RBA  audits of supplier sites to assess working conditions  for approximately 490,000 workers in our supply  chain.1 If nonconformances to our standards are  found, we work with those suppliers to identify the  root cause and implement corrective actions. Identifying Risks in  Product Design Cisco works with product and engineering teams to  identify and address potential human rights risks in  the design of our products. We consider the needs  of"
"vulnerable users, intended and unintended uses  of our products, and unique use cases to address  potential risks. In fiscal 2024, we saw an increased  interest in and demand for AI-enabled features and  technology to meet our customer and business  needs. We continued to invest in our AI Governance  program and AI Impact Assessments, which we  use to identify potential risks associated with AI,  including human rights risks. In fiscal 2024, we  completed more than 275 AI Impact Assessments."
"Reporting Concerns Cisco’s EthicsLine is the primary grievance  mechanism for rightsholders and other stakeholders  to report actual or potential human rights concerns.  In fiscal 2024, we invested in expanding the number  of languages in order to make the EthicsLine tool  more accessible to the workers in geographies  where our suppliers operate. We added 12 language  options, including Tagalog, Thai, and Vietnamese.  Reporters can now choose among 27 languages  when submitting a report."
"Discover other ways we integrate  AI into our strategy, products,  and services.       1       The RBA is an industry standard scheme which allows suppliers of multiple customers to demonstrate conformance to a  single responsible business conduct standard. Number of workers represent the total supply chain workers in the entire  supplier facility audited. FY24 Purpose Report | 17 Intro Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead Power  Ethics and Integrity At Cisco, our commitment to doing business"
"with  integrity is a critical component of the trust we’ve  earned with customers, partners, and stakeholders  over the past 40 years. We safeguard this trust  by expecting all employees to be personally  responsible for ethics and compliance. Cisco’s Code of Business Conduct (our Code) embodies the  principles and high standards that guide our daily actions and  decisions. Employees complete training on our Code and certify  their commitment to comply with it. In fiscal 2024, 99.9% of  Cisco"
"employees completed their annual certification. Employees  are encouraged to reach out to the Ethics Office with concerns  or questions. Learn more about how to report a concern. Reports to Ethics Office FY22 FY23 FY24 1,646 1,644 1,784 Detecting Risks with the Power of ML Data analytics has become an indispensable tool in the realm of corporate ethics and compliance programs. In fiscal 2024, Cisco  further enhanced its high-risk deal identification process to harness the power of ML, leveraging"
"vast amounts of data to identify  patterns and anomalies in sales transactions that may indicate process issues or noncompliant behavior. The potential for advanced analytics to detect and prevent compliance issues could lead to a new era of corporate governance,  in which technology plays a central role in maintaining the integrity of business operations. FY24 Purpose Report | 18 Intro Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead Power  Digital Inclusion To compete in today’s global economy, every"
"nation needs modernized digital infrastructure  and a digitally empowered workforce.  Country Digital Acceleration  Since 2015, Cisco Country Digital Acceleration  (CDA) has collaborated with government and private  sector leaders to build more sustainable, secure,  and inclusive communities powered by innovative  technology solutions. Here are a few ways that  CDA projects are making a difference. 1,600 active, completed,  or in‑pipeline projects  in 50 countries Connectivity in the Amazon"
"Cisco and Senac Brasil are bringing education and technology to remote regions in the Amazon, many of which are only  accessible by boat, through the “Amazon Floating School.” This is the first floating Cisco Networking Academy and marks  Cisco’s 30 years of digital partnership in Brazil. The ferry school is equipped with Cisco's advanced connectivity technology  and offers a range of professional IT training to support the country’s digitization. The vessel also provides free WiFi within a"
"30-meter radius, which promotes digital inclusion for the communities being served by the ferry. Digital Classrooms in the United Kingdom In partnership with The ICT Service, Cisco equipped 50 Cambridgeshire schools with Meraki sensor and networking  technology to boost student engagement while cutting energy consumption, costs, and emissions. This technology  optimizes the learning environment by providing connectivity, monitoring air quality, and maintaining comfortable and  consistent"
"classroom temperatures. With features like nighttime WiFi shutdown and centralized network management, the  program has already reduced energy use by a third, demonstrating its impact on both the environment and education. Transport for New South Wales In Australia, Transport for New South Wales (NSW) is partnering with Cisco to reduce congestion and create safer journeys  using AI, sensors, ML solutions, WiFi, and Cisco Internet of Things (IoT) Edge Computing. We’re using technology to enable"
"a real-time view of supply and demand and performance across buses, ferries, and light rail vehicles, and, with this data,  creating a foundation for new services and travel options for the NSW community. We aim to accelerate the benefits of a  digital transport system that will shape NSW cities, centers, and communities for generations to come. FY24 Purpose Report | 19 Intro Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead Power  Inclusive Fostering a culture where  everyone can thrive The workforce of"
"2024 is not the same as the  workforce of 1984. It’s more global and more  skilled—and it expects more from its employers.  Just as the workforce has evolved, so too has  Cisco. Today, we’re recognized as one of the  world’s best workplaces, and we have an  unrelenting focus on employee wellbeing,  benefits, giving, and inclusion for all. For our  Cisconians, we strive to create the best possible  employee experience, because we know our  greatest asset is our people. FY24 Purpose Report | 20"
"Intro Power Future For All Looking Ahead Inclusive  Our business has always been about  enabling people to connect and collaborate  across distance and difference. In fiscal 2024, we continued our work cultivating inclusive,  collaborative, accessible, and resilient communities to  accelerate business growth and Power an Inclusive Future  for All. Our strategy integrates inclusive principles into our  operations, workforce strategy, external ecosystems, and  brand—and it will take all of us to"
"reach that vision. We continue to evolve and are thrilled that, this year, for  the first time ever, Cisco was named one of the Top 100  Best Companies by Seramount, with standout recognition  for paid time off, benefits and work-life programs, and  best workplace practices. Driving Mindsets,  Skillsets, and Toolsets We strive to create a culture where everyone takes responsibility  for fostering an inclusive, collaborative, and respectful  environment for all, and they have the skills and tools"
"to make  it happen. We offer development opportunities for leaders at all levels to  drive inclusion and create true connection within the company.  Participant feedback suggests that the quality and efficacy of our  development opportunities is one of the factors that contributes  to people choosing to stay and grow their careers at Cisco. Getting closer to different perspectives, experiences, and  identities gives us better insight to foster our company culture.  Our Proximity Initiative"
"brings together leaders and employees  for one-on-one dialogues to learn about each other’s lived  experiences and work together to weave inclusive behaviors  in the business. In fiscal 2024, approximately 400 leaders and  900 employees participated in the program globally. To scale our impact, we take our own best practices and share  them with others. Our Proximity team traveled to Europe to share  our framework and training with one of our largest customers  and its 180,000 employees"
"around the world. Accelerating Careers with  The Multiplier Effect Our learning and development programs offer support for  employees across the full spectrum of diversity to accelerate  their careers, build relationships, and innovate at Cisco. 100% of  Cisco Leaders at the Vice President level and above have pledged  with The Multiplier Effect to sponsor an employee for the career  advancement of talent across the full spectrum of diversity. Since  its inception, 2,000 sponsors and 3,000"
"sponsees have participated  in this transformative program, driving a future where diversity  thrives at every level. Snorre Kjesbu, Senior Vice President and General Manager of  Collaboration Devices, sponsored Anna Gjerlaug, Chief of Staff  of Collaboration Devices. Anna was eager to participate to gain  visibility into leadership roles and grow her skills. For Snorre,  he was driven to support a future of leadership that is diverse in  skillsets and backgrounds. The benefits of sponsorships"
"went both  ways. Anna learned more about the business, and Snorre received  helpful feedback from Anna on how their customer engagement  was impacting their business results. With her background in human  resources, Anna also helped Snorre grow a culture of vulnerability  and psychological safety within his leadership team. “ At Cisco, we have the opportunity to shape the next generation of leaders.  By supporting our leaders, we not only expand the influence of those we  sponsor but also"
"promote a future of leadership that reflects the diverse skills and  backgrounds of our people. - Snorre Kjesbu, Senior Vice President and General Manager, Collaboration Devices Inclusion and Collaboration FY24 Purpose Report | 21 Intro Power Future For All Looking Ahead Inclusive  Fostering Inclusive Communities For All Nearly a third of our employees are members of at  least one Cisco Inclusive Community. These Inclusive  Communities drive their own initiatives and create  spaces for employees"
"to network, develop leadership  skills, serve as change agents, and learn to be  informed allies to various cultures and perspectives. In fiscal 2024, Cisco and Splunk brought together  representatives, leaders, and sponsors across Cisco  and Splunk to reinforce our shared commitment to  foster an inclusive culture for all and elevate our impact  through collaboration. During this two-day summit,  teams participated in a hack-a-thon and a giveback  activity to create 1,000 care packages for"
"Compass  Family Services, supporting youth in the San Francisco  Bay Area. Here are two examples of our Inclusive Communities  at work: •         Native American Network: Cisco’s Native  American Network (NAN) supports opportunities to  close the digital divide across Tribal Communities,  where digital equity remains a significant challenge.  In fiscal 2024, NAN helped deploy 18 sovereign  broadband access points on Zuni tribal lands in  New Mexico to enhance educational opportunities,  deliver"
"social and telehealth services, and provide  economic opportunities. •        Women of Cisco: Women of Cisco connects  and celebrates women in the workforce, with  over 12,500 members in fiscal 2024. Their Global  Executive Shadow Program, launched as a pilot in  2009, offers members the opportunity to shadow  experienced Cisco leaders. In 2024, the program  surpassed 1,000 shadow members globally. 31 Inclusive  Communities 1,300 volunteer  leaders 335 chapters across 77 countries Adult"
"Caregivers  Network Alzheimer’s  Support Network Back to Business  Network Cancer Support  Network Cisco HAVEN Conexión Latin  Network Connected Asian  Affinity Network Connected Black  Professionals Connected  Disability Action  Network Connected  Jewish Network Diabetes  Network Emerging Talent  at Cisco Filipino  Professional  Network Finance  Women’s  Network Green Team  Network Indians  Connecting  Network Interfaith  Network Iranians &  Friends Network iWISE:  Supply Chain Lebanese  at"
"Cisco Men for  Inclusion Mindfulness  & Resilience  Network Native American  Network Palestinian  Network  at Cisco PRIDE LGBTQ+  & Allies Special  Children’s  Network Veteran  Enablement &  Troop Support Women in  Cybersecurity Women in  Science &  Engineering Women  of Cisco Women’s  Inventor  Network FY24 Purpose Report | 22 Intro Power Future For All Looking Ahead Inclusive  Employee Community Impact At Cisco, serving our local communities is  a core part of the employee experience. In"
"fiscal 2024, for the fifth year in a row, more than  80% of employees participated in community impact  by giving their time, money, talent, and skills, as well  as by advocating for causes, taking pledges to act,  and participating in sustainability efforts. In addition  to making a difference in the world, research shows  that employees, leaders, and teams who give back  to their communities are linked to lower attrition,  higher recognition, and higher rewards. Our Community Impact Portal is"
"a key entry point  for employees to find opportunities and track their  impact, and we offer customization in 20 languages,  tax receipts, a mobile app, and peer matching for  fundraisers. New this year, we took a more inclusive  approach to cause eligibility and increased the  number of nonprofits and nongovernmental  organizations (NGOs) eligible for the Matching  Gifts Program from 7,000 to 90,000 to give our  employees much more choice in which causes  to support. In 2024, our Matching Gifts"
"Program provided up to  US$25,000 per year in matching gifts per employee,  and Cisco matches employees’ donations of  cash, stock, and volunteer time. Cisco also offers  80 hours of paid time off for community service  per employee, per calendar year, as part of the  Time2Give program. Giving Back Our employees are multipliers for positive change,  and they’re encouraged to power our Purpose  through their own grassroots initiatives. For  example, inspired by Cisco’s longstanding value  of"
"giving back and the desire for more in-person  connection, a team of Cisco employees developed  their own “Global Week of Giving.” With quarterly  themes—from sustainability to education—their fiscal  2024 efforts led to 6,000 employees volunteering  and generating US$180,000 in matching donations. Participating in  Pro Bono Programs Pro bono work allows employees to use their time,  skills, and expertise to help communities around  the globe. The Cisco Legal Department uses their  specialized"
"skills to expand access to justice, with  91% of our U.S-based attorneys participating in  Pro Bono at Cisco in fiscal 2024—up from 56% in  fiscal 2023. Volunteers engage in traditional legal  pro bono work for attorneys and business/technical  professionals, assist legal aid providers in scaling  their operations, and identify ways to leverage  Cisco technology to enhance access to legal  services and courtrooms. FY24 Impact 86% of employees  participated in  community impact— the highest level"
"yet 720,000 employee  volunteer hours US$35M in employee  donations and  matching gifts FY24 Purpose Report | 23 Intro Power Future For All Looking Ahead Inclusive  Employee Experience We empower individuals and teams to harness  their strengths and improve the way we work. Through virtual and in-person tools for strengthening  manager-employee and interpersonal relationships,  we help teams work in harmony and increase their  impact. A two-way exchange—sharing resources with  employees and"
"listening closely to their feedback—gives  everyone a voice and a stake in our success. Supporting Leaders  and Teams At Cisco, leaders play a critical role in driving team  and organizational growth. We develop comprehensive  programs and experiences that cater to leaders at all  levels, from new to the more experienced, offering  a range of self-driven micro learnings, virtual cohort  sessions, one-on-one engagements, professional  coaching, and peer collaboration. These initiatives are"
"carefully crafted to empower Cisco leaders with the  tools and knowledge needed to excel in their roles. We strengthen teams through tools like Team Space,  a platform for both individual and team engagement.  It enables the behaviors and rituals (One-Time  Standout Assessment, Weekly Check‑Ins, and Quarterly  Engagement Pulse) that scale team excellence and  unlock the power of teams. Weekly Check-Ins are  the most powerful ritual of the best teams and team  leaders. They are the main lever for"
"team effectiveness,  nourishing the very best relationships between team  members and team leaders. AI in the Workplace We are in the midst of an AI revolution—and Cisco is turning its cutting-edge AI technology  internally to support our employees. In fiscal 2024, we launched BridgeIT, a Cisco Enterprise Chat  AI that is fully integrated within Webex suite solutions. BridgeIT can help answer questions about  Cisco products, offer support solutions, and even develop presentation outlines."
"Employees are also leveraging AI to shape the way teams work together. This year, we launched  “Teaming with AI,” a pilot program that enabled teams to experiment with new ways of working to  drive their productivity and efficiency. We also hosted an “InnoVerse: AI” hackathon, challenging  employees to find new ways to leverage AI in their roles, while also receiving training and guidance  along the way. These programs are just two examples of how we’re using AI to upskill our  employees and"
"spark creativity and innovation. 2.3M Team Space  Check-Ins submitted 84% of employees submitted  Check-Ins1          1       This percentage excludes employees from acquisitions made in fiscal 2024, as they did not have access to Team Space yet. FY24 Purpose Report | 24 Intro Power Future For All Looking Ahead Inclusive  Health and Wellbeing As the pace of life accelerates, Cisco  understands that the mental and  physical health of our employees  is a business imperative. Cisco has a legacy of"
"pioneering innovative  wellbeing initiatives. We were one of the first  corporations to offer advanced, onsite primary  medical care with multidisciplinary offerings,  such as physical therapy, chiropractic care, and  acupuncture at our headquarters in San Jose,  California. We were also one of the first technology  corporations to offer both onsite vision and dental  care, setting a high standard for comprehensive  employee health services.  Cisco is reimagining work by focusing on the"
"critical intersection of people, places, and  technology, with wellbeing at the core. Our  health, safety, and wellbeing programs provide  holistic solutions to support physical health,  mental health, social connections, financial  stability, purpose and meaning, and the  environment—all of which increase employee  engagement and productivity. Empowering Leaders Leaders drive a high-performance culture—offering  direction, vision, motivation, inspiration, and  collaboration. The role of leaders"
"has significantly  expanded in the past few years as they navigate  pressures such as hybrid work, attrition, and  employee wellbeing. In fiscal 2024, we offered  curated training to help leaders understand and  alleviate their unique stressors. These learning  experiences helped our leaders prioritize self‑care,  while creating a culture of wellbeing for their teams.  Included in these sessions were ready-to-use  team rituals to increase engagement, deepen  trust, and enhance resilience."
"Embedding Wellbeing  in Technology We see opportunity to put wellbeing at people’s  fingertips by embedding support into Cisco  platforms and collaboration tools. In fiscal 2024,  we launched “WellNest” on Webex, a pilot to  offer resources to support physical, mental, social,  and financial wellbeing, all through an intuitive  AI‑powered platform. The bot helps employees  access and engage with tailored solutions,  and it highlights strengths and opportunities  for improvement. Recognizing"
"Menopause At Cisco, we are committed to fostering a  supportive environment that acknowledges the  unique challenges faced by employees. Menopause  is a significant and natural phase in the lives of  many that can be burdensome if untreated. This  year, in the United States, we introduced a coaching  solution with personalized support from an advocate  connecting participants to the care and education  they most need. Supporting  Neurodivergent Adults People think, learn, and work differently."
"Honoring  our uniqueness creates a more collaborative  environment. In fiscal 2024, Cisco introduced a  new global solution to support employees with  ADHD, autism, and other types of neurodivergence.  We offer courses designed in partnership with  neurodivergent professionals, offering evidence- based insights, personal stories, and content that is  neuro-affirming and inclusive. Our neurodivergent  employees get 1:1 expert coaching and tips on how  to best leverage unique strengths and address"
"any  workplace challenges. Managers and colleagues  can learn to foster inclusive environments and  better support and communicate with  neurodivergent teammates. Learn more about our health, wellbeing, and benefits  solutions that help employees be their best. FY24 Purpose Report | 25 Intro Power Future For All Looking Ahead Inclusive  Future Help advance a more  sustainable future Together, we can Power an Inclusive Future  for All—but that future cannot happen without a  healthy planet. And"
"our planet needs us now more  than ever, with 2023 being the warmest year on  historical record. Cisco has long been committed  to reducing its environmental impact, and there’s  more to be done. Our environmental sustainability  strategy, The Plan for Possible, guides us as we  advance sustainability in products, accelerate  clean energy access, support suppliers’ reduced  environmental impacts, and foster climate resilience  in communities. FY24 Purpose Report | 26 Intro Power Inclusive For"
"All Looking Ahead Future  Clean Energy Transitions To power the world with renewables, the grid requires  updated digital infrastructure to connect diverse,  decentralized sources of clean energy. However, as  the world electrifies, we must simultaneously reduce  the amount of energy used by a connected economy. Throughout our 40-year history, our environmental sustainability journey  has been marked by continuous innovation and ambitious goal‑setting  around GHG emissions reduction. Since 2008,"
"we have been setting  and achieving a series of five-year goals to reduce our absolute Scope 1  and 2 GHG emissions. Our 2040 net-zero goal and our near-term targets for fiscal years 2025  and 2030 are examples of our rigorous and transparent approach to  goal-setting and reporting. Our 2040 net-zero goal was approved by  the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) in 2022 under its Corporate  Net-Zero Standard. Cisco was one of the first technology hardware  and equipment companies to have its"
"net-zero goal validated under the  SBTi Net-Zero Standard. We are also proud to be featured on the CDP  Climate A List for the eighth time in the nine years the list has existed,  as leaders in their reporting and actions to reduce GHG emissions. To make progress toward our net-zero goal, we are focused on energy- efficiency innovation; connecting clean energy; and collaborating with  our customers, partners, and suppliers to accelerate the transition to  renewable sources of energy. Net-Zero"
"Goal By 2040: Reach net-zero GHG emissions  across our value chain by reducing absolute  Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions by 90%  (FY19 base year).1 Near-Term Targets By FY25: Reduce absolute Scope 1 and  Scope 2 emissions by 90% (FY19 base year).1,2 74% reduction By FY30: Reduce absolute Scope 3  emissions from purchased goods and  services, upstream transportation and  distribution, and use of sold products by  30% (FY19 base year).3 35% 4 reduction        1       We intend to neutralize the"
"remaining 10% of emissions by removing an equal amount from  the atmosphere.        2       We continue to make strides towards this fiscal 2025 goal. However, like other companies  with ambitious targets, we are facing headwinds. Regardless, we will continue to drive  meaningful action and innovate toward our goals.      3       The baseline and progress reported for our fiscal 2030 goal includes a subset of Scope 3  Category 1 (purchased goods and services from manufacturing, component, and"
"warehouse  suppliers), a subset of Scope 3 Category 4 (upstream transportation and distribution from  Cisco purchased air transportation), and all of Scope 3 Category 11 (use of sold products).         4       We expect our progress to fluctuate year-over-year based on the number and type of  products we sell each year. FY24 Purpose Report | 27 Intro Power Inclusive For All Looking Ahead Future  Our Carbon Footprint Cisco’s fiscal 2024 emissions and decarbonization strategies by category.1 ~70%"
"PRODUCT USE (Scope 3 Category 11) The largest portion of our emissions results from  the energy our products consume during use. We are  addressing this by increasing the energy efficiency of  our products and engaging with customers to lower  their overall energy use by optimizing their networks. ~25% PROCUREMENT AND PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (Scope 3 Categories 1 and 2) About one-fourth of our emissions comes  from purchased goods and services (including  capital goods). For Cisco, this includes"
"manufacturing and warehousing of Cisco  components and products, and procurement  of goods that support Cisco’s business. We  are engaging with our suppliers to better  understand their use of renewable energy,  to set emissions-reduction goals, and to help them engage with their own suppliers  to tackle emissions. ~4% LOGISTICS (Scope 3 Category 4) We are addressing emissions produced by upstream  transportation and distribution of our products by  prioritizing ocean over air and engaging with"
"suppliers  to shift to lower-emissions modes of transport. ~2% ALL OTHER SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS A small percentage of our emissions come from other  Scope 3 categories, such as employee business travel  and commuting, downstream product transport, and  end-of-use product treatment. We continue to explore  opportunities to reduce emissions in these categories. <1% DIRECT OPERATIONS (Scope 1 and 2) Emissions from the operation of Cisco facilities and  assets account for less than 1% of our emissions—"
"but they are also within our direct control. We are  addressing them through investments in renewable  energy, energy efficiency projects, and building  and fleet electrification.               Note: Numbers are approximate and may not add up to 100% due to rounding.        1       Data, data sources, and methodologies used in quantifying and reporting GHG emissions are continuously evolving. We strive to monitor developments regarding these matters with a view to enhancing our  calculations and"
"data on an ongoing basis in accordance with Cisco's policies. Visit the Scope 1-3 emissions summary section of our Purpose Reporting Hub for more information. FY24 Purpose Report | 28 Intro Power Inclusive For All Looking Ahead Future  Designing Energy-Efficient Products Much of our digital economy relies on large, energy- intensive data centers that need to be operational  24/7 and require cooling systems to prevent  overheating—and the growth of AI is increasing  this demand. We believe the IT"
"industry needs to  stay one step ahead of this technological shift so  sustainability is not an afterthought. Large, global companies like Cisco have a critical  role to play in balancing the demand for AI and  digitalization with improvements in energy efficiency.  This includes modernizing data centers, adopting  energy management solutions that provide real-time  energy usage insights, building a smart and resilient  energy grid, and accelerating the transition to clean  energy. Cisco"
"prioritizes these efforts within our  environmental sustainability strategy, The Plan for  Possible, and we continue to advance our work in  these areas as adoption of AI evolves. At Cisco, smart energy consumption is a core  element of our Circular Design Principles, and we  are working to increase the energy efficiency of our  products. For example, the Cisco UCS X-Series  Modular System, which provides computing  power for modern, AI-ready data centers, has  been designed to improve energy"
"efficiency and  cooling when compared with previous UCS rack  server releases. Cisco UCS X-Series is 54% more  energy efficient at the processing (CPU) level than  previous generations. And it is managed through  the Cisco Intersight IT operations platform, which  enables customers to dynamically adjust power for  better efficiency. As technology evolves rapidly, staying informed  about the environmental performance of the latest  devices and solutions can be challenging. For many  years, Cisco"
"has used voluntary third‑party ecolabels,  such as ENERGY STAR® and Electronic Product  Environmental Assessment Tool, to indicate when  certain products meet energy efficiency criteria and  other environmental and social criteria associated  with product design and our corporate Purpose. In fiscal 2024, several of our Catalyst 9000 switches  received ENERGY STAR certification in the Large  Network Equipment category, empowering our  customers to choose solutions that align with  their own"
"sustainability goals and can help reduce  their environmental footprint while maintaining  performance in their technology infrastructure.  Cisco is one of the first companies to have  ENERGY STAR-certified products in this category. Having reliable environmental sustainability-related  data, such as product energy consumption and  product life cycle emissions, is important for many  reasons. For example, it helps our customers better  understand the environmental footprint of their  networks"
"and report their environmental impact. To address this need, Cisco developed the  Sustainability Data Foundation (SDF), an internal  enterprise data platform that serves as our main  source for environmental sustainability-related  data for a range of use cases. The SDF is part of our commitment to strong  governance of our environmental sustainability  efforts, which underpins The Plan for Possible. In  fiscal 2024, we began using the SDF for several  purposes, including generating customer-"
"facing  product carbon footprint reports and automating  our own emissions accounting, which are important  to evolving regulatory and reporting requirements.  We continue to expand the data within the SDF and  its application across our business. FY24 Purpose Report | 29 Intro Power Inclusive For All Looking Ahead Future  Sustainability in Our Direct Operations Cisco has been developing and executing on  initiatives to reduce the environmental impact  of our facilities for nearly 20 years. Our"
"strategy  is focused on optimizing our portfolio for hybrid  work, advancing sustainability and efficiency within  our operations, sourcing renewable energy, and  engaging with our stakeholders on our efforts. To reduce Scope 1 and 2 emissions and make  progress on our near-term target, we plan to  invest approximately US$39 million in renewable  energy, energy efficiency, and building and  fleet electrification projects from fiscal 2023  through the end of fiscal 2025. In fiscal 2024, we"
"implemented 27 energy efficiency projects that  avoid approximately 1.3 gigawatt-hours of energy  consumption and 850 metric tonne carbon dioxide  equivalent each year. In fiscal 2024, 96% of our global electricity came  from renewable sources, through a combination  of onsite solar, green power contracts, unbundled  energy attribute purchases, and longer-term  contracts such as power purchase agreements  (PPAs) that add new renewable energy capacity  to the grid. For example, the virtual power"
"purchase agreement (VPPA) Cisco signed  last year with Spanish renewable energy provider  IGNIS began producing power in March 2024.  The 37 megawatt (MW) solar plant is expected  to produce approximately 60,000 megawatt‑hour  per year of solar energy for Cisco—equivalent  to 100% of the annual electricity needs for our  European operations for the next 15 years.1 This year, we also signed several new PPAs. In  India, we signed a long-term PPA that will drive  the development of a new 92 MW"
"solar and  wind generation facility in fiscal 2025 and deliver  renewable electricity to one of our largest campus  sites located in Bangalore, India. We also served  as the anchor buyer for an aggregated VPPA,  partnering with six other companies to drive a  new 180 MW solar development in Texas, which is  expected to achieve commercial operation in fiscal  2026. We also funded a new 100 kilowatt rooftop  solar system at our leased site in Krakow, Poland. We are embedding environmental"
"sustainability  into our operations by creating and maintaining  workplaces that support our employees’ wellbeing  and productivity. Our hybrid work strategy has enabled us to  close underused offices and consolidate existing  spaces, while reinvesting in key locations critical  to our growth, creating a more efficient real estate  footprint for Cisco. As of the end of fiscal 2024,  we have 36 Cisco facilities with green building  certifications, such as Leadership in Energy and  Environmental"
"Design (LEED®) and the WELL  Building Standard, with six more in progress.  These certified spaces make up 19% of our  building portfolio. In fiscal 2024, we achieved  LEED Platinum for our new office in Atlanta and  are pursuing Building Research Establishment  Environmental Assessment Methodology (BREEAM)  and WELL certification for our new modern  customer showcase center in Paris. While we are proud of the progress we have made,  we know there is more work to do with our peers,  customers,"
"suppliers, and stakeholders to support  equitable access to clean energy. Learn more about how we’re  expanding our sustainability efforts  across operations.    1       Excluding Poland, Romania, and the United Kingdom which are not Association of Issuing Bodies countries and are therefore  not covered by the scope of the VPPA. 96% of electricity for Cisco  facilities came from  renewable sources FY24 Purpose Report | 30 Intro Power Inclusive For All Looking Ahead Future  Making Our Offices"
"“Smart” Data is critical for managing real estate space, and smart building technology makes  workplaces more secure and helps advance sustainability. In the Cisco Atlanta office,  8,000 data points capture a constant stream of insights to enable precise, real-time visibility  of lighting, air quality, temperature, room usage, and more. All of this is managed by intelligent,  automated systems. The space leverages Power over Ethernet (PoE). Cisco developed and first delivered  a proprietary"
"version of PoE in 2000, transporting both power and data across a single  cable. This both reduced cabling needs and improved safety and simplified installation,  saving time and reducing costs. This means nearly everything—lights, window shades, motors, cameras, sensors, and other  devices—runs off low-voltage DC power, supplied by the network itself. This saves energy,  and it removes a large amount of high-voltage copper and steel conduit from the structure,  materials responsible for carbon"
"emissions in their manufacture and transport. These data endpoints provide constant insights into what’s working and what isn’t in  the Atlanta space, which add up to efficiency, sustainability, and great design. Engaging Our Suppliers To reduce the Scope 3 GHG emissions that arise  from manufacturing and transporting our products,  we engage with our suppliers to help reduce their  emissions. We set standards for all suppliers and  target deeper engagement on emissions “hot  spots.” Cisco’s"
"Supply Chain Operations’ Net Zero  Operating Committee develops and drives strategy  to integrate GHG emissions considerations into  business decisions. Cisco’s suppliers are required to set an absolute  GHG emissions-reduction goal, and in fiscal 2024,  90% of our suppliers by spend had done so. We  also require suppliers to report their GHG emissions  to CDP. Using data from CDP and other analyses,  we identify focus areas for further action. In fiscal 2024, we worked with our manufacturing"
"partners to increase energy efficiency in their  operations, and with our logistics partners to shift  modes of transport from air to ocean. We set expectations for our suppliers and work  with them to meet those expectations. In fiscal  2024, we assessed the renewable energy usage  at our manufacturing partner sites and are now  engaging with them on roadmaps to increase it.  We co-sponsored the inaugural Intel Sustainability  Summit in March 2024, which convened more than  140 companies,"
"academics, NGOs, customers, and  other stakeholders to share best practices and set  action plans for GHG emissions reduction. In Hanoi,  Vietnam, we co-hosted an environmental seminar  for 70 representatives—from suppliers, NGOs, and  academics—that included best practices in energy  management and discussion on the renewable  energy transition. Many suppliers face challenges with renewable  energy availability and affordability. Cisco is  a founding member of the Asia Clean Energy  Coalition,"
"which works to shift energy policy in  key Asian markets. In fiscal 2024, we became a  sponsor of Catalyze, which helps suppliers in the  semiconductor and ICT supply chain transition to  renewable energy through education and training  resources and access to renewable energy  procurement opportunities. Supplier Climate Target By FY25: 80% of Cisco component,  manufacturing, and logistics suppliers  by spend have a public, absolute GHG  emissions-reduction target.1 90% with targets Learn more"
"about how the Cisco Foundation supports efforts to accelerate the clean  energy transition through its US$100 million climate commitment.          1       Suppliers are expected to set public absolute GHG emissions-reduction targets or intensity targets that produce an absolute emissions reduction during the target period. Cisco encourages suppliers to set  targets in line with an approved science‑based methodology. Progress toward this goal is quantified using Cisco’s supply chain spend which"
"can vary annually. Cisco will continue to work with suppliers to set  their own absolute GHG emissions-reduction targets, and to report progress toward this goal annually through fiscal 2025.​ FY24 Purpose Report | 31 Intro Power Inclusive For All Looking Ahead Future  Circular  Transformation Cisco is focused on evolving from a linear economy that  extracts resources and eventually wastes them, to a circular  one that finds new uses for products and their inputs.  We aim to transform our"
"business to extend the useful  life of our products and provide ongoing services. As Cisco takes a holistic approach to reducing the environmental impact of  our products across the product life cycle, we have three areas of focus: •         Circular Design: Apply Circular Design Principles to our products and  packaging to extend the life cycle of our products from the outset. •    Circular Offerings: Enable customers and partners to adopt circular  practices through a portfolio of offers,"
"including Cisco Refresh, Cisco  Green Pay, and our Takeback Incentive. •  Recover and Redeploy: Recapture hardware to advance a circular life  cycle and extend the lifespan of products. This approach can help minimize waste streams, optimize material use,  and extend the useful life of our hardware products. This circular approach  is both good for business and good for the planet.          1       The scope of this goal is limited to hardware products and associated packaging, excluding:"
"standalone components  (e.g., chassis, ASICs, optical modules); standalone basic product accessories (e.g., power cables, brackets); Original  Equipment Manufacturer products (where Cisco does not own the design); products and packaging of nonintegrated  acquisitions. Product and packaging designs achieving a score of 75% or higher are counted toward the goal.​         2       We continue to make strides towards this fiscal 2025 goal. However, like other companies with ambitious targets, we  are"
"facing headwinds. Regardless, we will continue to drive meaningful action and innovate toward our goals.       3       Packaging efficiency is measured by comparing the size of the product relative to the packaging, using dimensional  weight. Dimensional weight uses volume and a standard dimensional factor to calculate the weight of a package. In  this methodology, the packaging efficiency metric is based on the difference of the normalized dimensional weight (by  volume) between the baseline"
"and current year. This goal applies to high-volume packaging requiring redesigns.    4       The scope of this goal excludes plastics contained in commodity components (e.g., plastic screws, fans, and cables)  and in products designed and manufactured by our Original Design Manufacturers.    5       According to current standard definitions used in certification protocols, “zero-waste” diversion is defined as a 90%  or greater overall diversion of solid, nonhazardous wastes from landfill,"
"incineration (waste-to-energy), and the  environment. Diversion methods can include reduction, reuse, recycling, and/or compost. Circular Economy Goals and Progress By FY25: 100% of new Cisco products and  packaging incorporate Circular Design Principles.1 96% meeting circular design criteria By FY25: Reduce foam used in Cisco product  packaging by 75% as measured by weight  (FY19 base year).2 57% reduction By FY25: Increase product packaging cube  efficiency by 50% (FY19 base year).3 76%"
"cumulative improvement By FY25: 50% of the plastic used in our products  (by weight) will be made of recycled content.4 41% recycled content By FY25: 70% of Cisco component and  manufacturing suppliers by spend achieve a  zero‑waste diversion rate at one or more sites.2,5 64% by spend with at least one certified site FY24 Purpose Report | 32 Intro Power Inclusive For All Looking Ahead Future  Circular Design Circular design means designing products,  packaging, and systems that enable reuse,"
"minimize environmental impacts, drive innovation,  and realize value for our stakeholders. We design  our products and packaging with circularity  in mind, aligning them to 25 Circular Design  Principles organized across five focus areas. We developed a circular design evaluation  methodology and web-based tool to help us  track progress toward our circular design goal.  Every new product and packaging design must  be scored in the evaluation tool and achieve  a score of at least 75% before its"
"release to  production. A score of 75% or higher represents  substantial incorporation of our Circular  Design Principles into our new products and  packaging and counts toward our circular design  goal. We formalized processes and dashboards  to support and enforce the mandatory scoring  requirement, resulting in all new designs released  in fiscal 2024 being evaluated in the tool. Cisco’s products are designed to convey our brand of quality and innovation. In fiscal 2024, Cisco updated the"
"industrial design guidelines to incorporate brand  requirements and Circular Design Principles, including guidelines such as avoiding the usage of solely cosmetic and nonfunctional plastic parts and optimizing the  product packaging. In fiscal 2025, we will review the Circular Design Principles, methodology, and tool based on key learnings, stakeholder feedback, and external  requirements, to identify opportunities to further our efforts. FY24 Accomplishments THE PERCENTAGES BELOW ARE BASED ON"
"NEW PRODUCT AND PACKAGING DESIGNS RELEASED IN FISCAL 2024. MATERIAL ​USE​ 53% of products with  plastic parts1 used  recycled content 98% of products implemented  plastic light‑weighting  techniques 91% of products do not have  cosmetic plastic bezels STANDARDIZATION  AND MODULARIZATION​ 93% of products used standard  colors and coatings 75% of power supply units  are replaceable onsite PACKAGING AND  ACCESSORIES​ 89% of products eliminated  nonessential paper  documents in packaging 79% of"
"products offer an opt-in/ out option for accessories  or do not include them 58% of products do not include  foam in packaging SMART ENERGY  CONSUMPTION 98% of products were  tested to determine  energy consumption  in multiple modes 75% of front-end power  supply units are 80 PLUS  Platinum- or Titanium-rated 81% of products use passive  cooling or intelligent  cooling techniques DISASSEMBLY,  REPAIR, AND REUSE 89% of products with onboard  data storage have data  wiping capabilities 92% of"
"products can be  disassembled into  individual components 98% of products can be  disassembled using  common tools PINNACLE AWARDS A cross-functional team from Supply  Chain and Engineering won the  Sustainability Impact Award at the  2024 Cisco Pinnacle Awards, the  highest recognition of product and  engineering innovation at Cisco,  for helping transform our company  strategy and meaningfully accelerating  Cisco and our customers toward key  environmental sustainability goals.          1"
"Excludes plastics contained in commodity components (e.g., plastic screws, fans, and cables).  FY24 Purpose Report | 33 Intro Power Inclusive For All Looking Ahead Future  Assessing Our Products’  Environmental Impacts A life cycle assessment (LCA) is used to model the  environmental impacts of a product across multiple  impact categories over the product life cycle,  from cradle to grave. We use LCAs to quantify key  environmental impacts of our products, identify hot  spots for continuous"
"product design and operational  improvement, and opportunities to reduce  resources used throughout our supply chain. In fiscal 2024, to address the need for LCAs  across our product portfolio, we developed a  scalable LCA model including environmental impact  reports aligned to the International Organization  for Standardization (ISO) 14040/44 standards.  The intent of this model is to improve the quality  and decrease the resource-intensiveness of  performing LCAs. It can be used for most"
"Cisco  hardware products to address internal and external  stakeholder interest. With the large number of  products in our portfolio, we started by using this  model for representative products across Cisco  product families. In fiscal 2024, we published our  first LCA report using the scalable LCA model. Circular Offerings We have a long history of empowering our customers to  participate in the circular economy. The Cisco Refresh  program has existed for more than 20 years and offers  Cisco-"
"certified remanufactured equipment, providing a  second life to products and reducing waste. In fiscal 2024,  Cisco Refresh launched the Cisco Circularity Promotion,  a discounted offer to support more businesses in joining  the circular economy and realizing the financial benefits as  they work toward their environmental sustainability goals. Recover and Redeploy Recovering our equipment is an important piece of our  circular transformation because it enables us to extend  a product’s life"
"cycle through reuse, remanufacturing,  and recycling. We continue to offer our product takeback  programs, including the Cisco Takeback and Reuse  program, to enable customers and partners to participate  in this important aspect of circularity. We consistently  reuse and recycle more than 99% of the products that are  returned to us. Visit the Purpose Reporting Hub to  learn more about our LCA model. Supporting Customers  with Cisco Refresh Based in the United Kingdom, Cistor is one of Cisco’s"
"global Circular Economy Partners. Cistor was an early  adopter of Cisco Refresh. Over the past 15 years,  Cistor has collected some diverse use cases related to  Cisco Refresh, from deploying remanufactured equipment  on aircraft carriers to critical care units in hospitals, as well  as in banks and stock exchanges. Introducing Cisco Refresh to Cistor’s customers and their  fellow partners can help them address their sustainability  goals and contribute to the health of the planet. “"
"Increasingly, we’re seeing people ask for circularity, and that’s  really where Cisco Refresh is probably one of Cisco’s best-kept  secrets. Cisco Refresh can reduce the environmental footprint  from purchased products and provide competitive pricing. - Anthony Levy, Founder and Chairman, Cistor FY24 Purpose Report | 34 Intro Power Inclusive For All Looking Ahead Future  Resilient Ecosystems Thriving economies depend on stable  environments and inclusive societies. Our value chains benefit from"
"resilient ecosystems,  both financially and ecologically. Helping to  safeguard the water, land, and ecosystems that  communities depend on is one of our environmental  sustainability priorities. Within our operations, we prioritize water  conservation, waste reduction, and protecting  wildlife habitats near our office locations. We also  work with our suppliers to promote environmental  stewardship throughout our value chain. On a  broader scale, customers and partners can use  our products and"
"investments to help monitor and  manage their local resources and ecosystems. Fostering Water  Stewardship Cisco recognizes that water is a vital resource that  we share with the communities where we operate,  but the impacts of climate change—like droughts,  extreme ­weather, flooding, degraded water  quality, and water scarcity—are intensifying and  becoming more widespread. Our approach to water  stewardship is aligned with the Alliance for Water  Stewardship (AWS) framework and UN SDG 6:"
"Clean Water and Sanitation. This includes two focus areas: •         Our Operations: Our work toward reducing  water use and related impacts in our  direct operations •     Our Supply Chain: Our work toward improving  water stewardship in our supply chain As a member of the AWS, we are proud to be  part of a global movement to advance good water  stewardship practices. We are also a founder and  active member of the RBA and have adopted the  RBA Code of Conduct as our Supplier Code of  Conduct,"
"which includes water management. As the  RBA partners with the AWS to advance engagement  and practices within our industries, we continue  to develop tools and resources to build water  stewardship capacity and knowledge. In our direct operations, we have implemented  many water conservation projects that are still  conserving water today, like our comprehensive  water management system at our Bangalore  campus. In fiscal 2024, we withdrew approximately  2,690 cubic meters of water in our"
"direct  operations globally. We engage with our suppliers to improve the  river basins and ecosystems where they operate,  focusing on both internal and external water  management. In collaboration with ICT peers and  other stakeholders, we work to advance best  practices at high-water-consuming suppliers in  water-stressed regions. In fiscal 2024, Cisco joined the AWS Impact  Accelerator project with nine sites in the Wusong  River basin in China. The project aims to build  capacity and"
"knowledge on the catchments they  operate in, and then turn that knowledge into action  by preparing for certification against the AWS  Standard. By bringing sites together in the same  basin, the AWS Impact Accelerator project helps  promote water stewardship at scale throughout  value chains. The goal is to amplify the catchment  impact through collaboration with stakeholders in  the same basin. In fiscal 2024, we cohosted a water field trip  with an industry peer for high-water-consuming"
"suppliers at China's Qiandao Lake to educate  participants about the importance of wetland and  water source protection. Through experiential  learning, suppliers better understood their roles in  protecting water sources and collaborating within  their industries to amplify their impact. 97% of Cisco key suppliers1  responded to the water  section of the 2024  CDP questionnaire       1       “Key suppliers” refers to Cisco Contract Manufacturers, Strategic Original Design Manufacturers, and"
"Hardware  Suppliers in the top 80% of spend in fiscal 2024. FY24 Purpose Report | 35 Intro Power Inclusive For All Looking Ahead Future  Reducing Waste in  Our Operations Our facilities take steps to reduce their operational  waste and reuse and recycle materials. In fiscal  2024, we diverted approximately 75%1 of the waste  generated at our facilities from landfill globally. We  achieved this diversion rate through reuse, recycling  composting, and donations. 2,878¹ metric tonnes   47% recycled"
"27% composted   24% landfilled   2% other FY24 Operational Waste Streams    1       This figure does not include eWaste generated within Cisco sites, which is  managed separately and recycled using Cisco's reverse logistics recycling  partners. In fiscal 2024, total eWaste generated in operations was 2,753 metric  tonnes, which makes up approximately 50% of total operational waste generated  including eWaste. With the inclusion of eWaste, Cisco diverted 87% of waste  from landfill. Connected"
"Conservation Africa, home to a quarter of the world's biodiversity,  faces pressures from climate change and population  growth. Many remote protected areas lack the  basic digital infrastructure needed to manage these  lands for the benefit of wildlife and communities.  In fiscal 2024, Cisco partnered with Connected  Conservation Foundation to donate Cisco Meraki  routers to African Parks, a nonprofit conservation  organization, to enable them to harness  Starlink satellite technology for"
"reliable Internet  connectivity. The project strengthened digital  infrastructure in 19 parks in 10 countries, providing  communication and data‑driven intelligence for  rapid response to threats, plus peacebuilding  and engagement within local communities so  people and wildlife can coexist and thrive. Learn more about how the Cisco  Foundation helps to protect and  regenerate ecosystems and  support communities in adapting  to the effects of climate change  through its US$100 million"
"climate commitment. FY24 Purpose Report | 36 Intro Power Inclusive For All Looking Ahead Future  For All Creating a better future  for all, by all Last year, we reached the historic milestone of  positively impacting one billion lives. But our journey  to create positive impact hasn’t slowed. Through our  technology, our people, and our broader networks,  we continue to create solutions that help address  the world’s most critical challenges. While those  challenges—from the AI skills gap to"
"social inequities  to environmental crises around the globe—change  and grow, Cisco continues to show up to create a  better future for all, by all, with all stakeholders who  share our vision. FY24 Purpose Report | 37 Intro Power Inclusive Future Looking Ahead For All  Learning and  Digital Skills Education is the ultimate equalizer. Together with  our partners in government, academic institutions,  and nonprofits around the world, we strive  to reach underserved and underrepresented  people"
"who might not otherwise have access  to life-changing educational pathways. Cisco Networking Academy is one of the longest-standing  IT skills-to-jobs programs in the world. We provide inclusive  access to quality education through our learning platform,  designed to enable instructor-led, self-paced, and hybrid  learning at scale. Courses cover key topics in technology,  including cybersecurity, networking, AI and data science,  programming, IT, digital literacy, and professional skills."
"Learners can prepare for industry certifications and get  access to career resources and job-matching services  to support their career journeys. For educators, we offer  instructor professional development, comprehensive  teaching features and resources, equipment discounts,  and connection to a global educator community. “ When learners gain the skills they need to earn well-paying jobs  in in-demand fields, we can lift families, communities, and society. - Par Merat, Vice President of Cisco"
"Networking Academy,  Learning & Certifications, and Cisco U. Celebrating 10 Years of Women Rock-IT A decade ago, we set out to show more young women that there is a  future for them in technology. Women Rock-IT is a series of programming—including Learn-A-Thons,  volunteer events, and live virtual broadcasts featuring prominent  women IT leaders—all carefully designed to show women around the  globe that they, too, can have a career in technology. Each year, Women Rock-IT’s marquee event falls"
"on International Girls  in ICT Day. This fiscal year, our event focused on the rise of AI and  the role that gender plays in this emerging technology. According to a  recent Cisco Networking Academy student survey, 53% of males are  already harnessing AI at work, compared to just 44% of females—but  more women than men are eager for AI education. We've continued to increase the presence of women and girls in  Cisco Networking Academy courses. This year, our Girls in ICT Day  programming featured"
"a live broadcast, Global Learn-A-Thon, and  Cisco employee volunteer events, with 1.2 million reached on  social media. We know that addressing the gender imbalance in STEM is critical  as we continue to Power an Inclusive Future for All, and Women  Rock-IT will continue to be a key component of these efforts. 10 Years of Women Rock-IT (since 2014) 2M participants 1.1M course enrollments FY24 Purpose Report | 38 Intro Power Inclusive Future Looking Ahead For All  Cisco Networking Academy Goals"
"and Progress By 2025, 97 million new jobs are projected to be created due to advances in technology and automation, and Cisco Networking Academy  is helping millions of people around the globe gain access to those jobs by empowering the workforce of the future with education and  career opportunities. Since Cisco Networking Academy began in 1997, we have reached more than 24 million students. And at the end of fiscal 2024, we mark  our progress toward our ambitious goal of reaching 25 million"
"more learners by the end of fiscal 2032. Our Roadmap Toward 25 Million More Learners1 GLOBALLY Train 25M more people in digital and  cybersecurity skills by 2032. Progress: 7.7M people AMERICAS Train 6.2M people in Latin America in  digital and cybersecurity skills by 2032. Progress: 2M people Train 200,000 people in the United  States with cybersecurity skills by 2025. Progress: 115,000 people Train 100,000 people with digital and  cybersecurity skills in partnership with  Senac Networking"
"Academy Support  Centers by 2027. Progress: 30,000 people EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST,  AND AFRICA (EMEA) Train 10M people in EMEA in digital  and cybersecurity skills by 2032. Progress: 3M people Train 3M people in Africa in digital  and cybersecurity skills by 2032— representing an estimated US$200M in  in-kind contributions. Progress: 1M people and US$64M  in in-kind contributions Train 2.6M people in the European  Union with digital and cybersecurity  skills by 2032. Progress: 900,000 people Train"
"250,000 people in the European  Union with cybersecurity skills by 2025. Progress: 245,000 people ASIA PACIFIC, JAPAN,  AND CHINA  Train 6.7M people with digital  and cybersecurity skills across  the region by 2032. Progress: 2M people Train 500,000 people in India with  cybersecurity skills by 2025. Progress: 437,000 people Train 141,000 people in Malaysia  with digital and cybersecurity skills  by 2032. Progress: 57,000 people Provide digital upskilling training for  50,000 women annually"
"across Brunei,  Fiji, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, the  Philippines, Thailand, and Vietnam  through 2032. Annual goal met: 135,000 women Impact Since 1997 24M students reached globally 232,000 students have self- reported a disability2 96% of students surveyed say that  Cisco Networking Academy  helped them obtain a job and/ or educational opportunity3 27% female students IN FISCAL 2024 4.7M students 31,300 instructors 23% female instructors 12,100 academies 191 countries 52 courses aligned to 19"
"certifications offered in  up to 18 languages 94% of instructors say that  Cisco Networking Academy  helped them become  a better educator4         1       Unless otherwise noted, goals listed have a base year of fiscal 2023, and progress  against all goals is cumulative and measured through end of fiscal 2024.    2       Since July 2019 when Cisco started collecting this data; self-reporting is optional.    3       Based on student outcome surveys of students participating in Cisco"
"certification- eligible courses between fiscal 2005 (when exit surveys began) and fiscal 2024.      4       Based on instructor survey participants in fiscal 2024 who were actively teaching. FY24 Purpose Report | 39 Intro Power Inclusive Future Looking Ahead For All  Partnering with the National Football League The Cisco Networking Academy NFL Apprenticeship Program was born out of a shared vision  between Cisco and the NFL to create opportunities for individuals from all backgrounds to"
"jumpstart  their careers in technology and sports. Emilie Dionisio didn’t pursue a traditional college degree  or harbor a lifelong desire to work in sports, but she jumped at the opportunity to gain invaluable  hands-on experience and forge relationships to further her career in the industry. Read more about Emilie’s apprenticeship experience. “ Working alongside my Director and Senior Network Engineers within the NFL has been an  empowering experience. Their mentorship and support have been"
"instrumental in boosting my  confidence and expanding my skills. It's been inspiring to see these leaders champion diversity  and actively work toward creating an inclusive environment. - Emilie Dionisio, Cisco Networking Academy Apprentice Expanding  Cybersecurity Skills  Around the World As digital threats continue to evolve, nations are  being challenged to safeguard their networks  from cybersecurity threats and attacks. In fiscal  2024, Cisco announced plans to establish a  Cybersecurity"
"Center of Excellence in Tokyo to  enhance Japan’s cybersecurity defenses and  digital resilience. Beginning in fiscal 2025, and  building on the success of Cisco Networking  Academy, we have also set ambitious targets to  train 20,000 people in South Korea in digital and  cybersecurity skills over the next three years, and  an additional 100,000 IT and cybersecurity learners  in Japan over the next five years. To increase the pool of skilled professionals in the  field, we offer cybersecurity"
"learning pathways  aligned to entry-level and associate-level industry  certifications for learners to start their training  without any prior knowledge required. Our  Introduction to Cybersecurity course is an easy  entry point to build cybersecurity awareness for  the general public and is currently translated  into 14 languages, including Arabic, Japanese,  and Ukrainian. Advancing Skills with AI AI is accelerating the pace of change for the global workforce, presenting an opportunity for"
"individuals to advance their skills. Cisco Networking Academy develops and partners with  industry leaders to offer engaging, self-paced AI learning content, like AI Fundamentals with  IBM SkillsBuild, that teaches the basics of AI to empower our learners with new skills that  are reshaping the future of work. We also led the launch of the AI-Enabled ICT Workforce  Consortium with Accenture, Eightfold, Google, IBM, Indeed, Intel, Microsoft, and SAP  to assess AI's impact on technology jobs and"
"identify skills development pathways. The  collaborative effort enables these organizations to coalesce insights, recommend action  plans, and act on findings, so that the AI revolution leaves no one behind. FY24 Purpose Report | 40 Intro Power Inclusive Future Looking Ahead For All  Cisco Foundation and  Social Impact Investments We envision a world of resilient and empowered  communities where everyone has the opportunity to thrive. In 1997, the Cisco Foundation was established by a gift from"
"Cisco  Systems, Inc. to help address basic human needs in the San Francisco  Bay Area. Over the past 27 years, that localized support has grown to  a global mission across multiple areas of need. Today, the Cisco Foundation and our corporate Social Impact  Investments together leverage our people, technology, and funding  to promote a healthy planet and increase the wellbeing of people and  communities everywhere. We provide catalytic capital to high‑potential  organizations for ideation,"
"innovation, and experimentation of tech- driven solutions, and we help scale those solutions for measurable  and sustained impact. These efforts are underpinned by technology  donations, capacity building support, and more. We invest along a continuum of needs in Crisis Response, Education,  Economic Empowerment, and Climate Regeneration. This investment  model was critical to achieving Cisco’s goal to positively impact  One Billion Lives, and it continues to guide our approach today. In"
"fiscal 2024, our early investments drove ecosystem-level impact, and  we saw nearer-term positive results from investments in new solutions,  such as AI for Good. Together, we aim to catalyze an ecosystem of  changemakers and create positive impact globally. Learn more about Cisco Foundation’s legacy, strategy,  and impact in the FY24 Cisco Foundation Report. Driving Impact in India Through Cisco’s India Cash Grant Program, Cisco  partners with NGOs and government agencies to  create technology-"
"based solutions focusing on  critical human needs and crisis response, education,  and economic empowerment. Our partnership with Piramal Swasthya helps bridge  healthcare gaps by facilitating telemedicine, rapid  diagnostics, maintenance of patient health records,  and data collection. By partnering with government  agencies in India and globally, we are providing real- time, verifiable, actionable data that governments can  rely on and jointly delivering programs to people and  communities in"
"need. FY24 Cisco and Cisco Foundation Highlights 170M people positively  impacted US$20M cash grants to nonprofit  organizations US$12M in-kind technology  donations 81% of people supported  through our partners  are underserved1 70% of solutions we support  have been successfully  replicated beyond initial  country/ies of operation       1       Defined as low‑income, underresourced, or vulnerable people and/or populations. FY24 Purpose Report | 41 Intro Power Inclusive Future Looking Ahead For"
"All  Leveraging AI for Good As our world and workforce continue to evolve with  AI, our strategic approach and investments must  evolve alongside it. Today, our partners are actively  creating, testing, and applying AI to bridge the  digital and data divide, and we’re proud to support  our partners’ critical work, including: •        Bridges to Prosperity’s Fika Map uses ML to  identify the most impactful places to build trail  bridges for maximum education, health, and  economic opportunities."
"•   charity: water’s AI‑powered algorithm uses data  from rural water pump sensors to predict when  water pumps are likely to fail. •       CareerVillage’s AI-powered Career Coach  provides qualified career coaching to more  students and teachers at scale. Improving Education We support students, teachers, and schools around  the world—helping to increase engagement, build  skills, promote subject mastery for students, and  teacher professional development. For example,  we partner with Human-"
"I-T to expand access  to Internet connectivity at home and provide  refurbished devices for Los Angeles and Detroit  schools. We also support Glific.org—an open- source, two-way communication platform that  bridges the gap between nonprofits and their  beneficiaries. With Cisco’s support, Glific education  partners are leveraging technology to improve  teacher capacity and student outcomes across Asia,  Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, and Europe. Supporting  Climate Action In 2021, the"
"Cisco Foundation committed  US$100 million over the next 10 years to support  climate action. Our funding applies a diversified,  blended approach: climate impact investments  in early-stage, for-profit climate startups and  climate venture capital funds, and grant funding  for nonprofits. One of the Foundation's clean energy impact  investments was made in support of Jaza Energy,  which works to integrate solar powered hubs and  telecommunications towers. Another supports   Aikido Technologies,"
"which is developing floating  offshore wind turbines. Our Foundation’s climate grants also support  protection and regeneration of natural  ecosystems. For example, we supported  Amazon Sacred Headwaters Alliance to promote  a regenerative bioeconomy and protect 86 million  acres of rainforest where 600,000 people from  30 Indigenous nationalities live. We also supported  Kara Solar, an Indigenous-led organization in  South America that provides solar river transport  solutions, community energy"
"grids, and training  programs for local technicians. Driving Economic  Empowerment Our investments support skills development,  entrepreneurship, and access to financial services that  enable individuals and families to achieve economic  security and contribute to local community growth. Our skills-to-career partner Defy Ventures equips  formerly incarcerated individuals with skills to obtain  jobs or start businesses. Our support helped them  engage 7,000 individuals, launch 175 new businesses,"
"and achieve an 84% post-release employment rate.  In addition, our entrepreneurship partner, Agora  Partnerships, created an interactive platform to  help small and medium businesses across Central  and South America build innovative climate  solutions to improve efficiencies and outcomes. Progress toward US$100M  Commitment to Climate Solutions US$17M in grants since fiscal 2021 US$18M in investments since fiscal 2021 US$35M total value FY24 Purpose Report | 42 Intro Power Inclusive Future"
"Looking Ahead For All  Crisis Response We help local agencies and communities  prepare for, respond to, and sustainably  rebuild from crises. Today, connectivity is no longer a form of aid; instead,  it’s often necessary to even receive aid. Beneficiary  registration, digital cash, relief benefits, and social  service applications all require secure connectivity— and Cisco helps deliver this essential need. Cisco Crisis Response (CCR) is a leader in the private  sector in responding to"
"humanitarian challenges and  works directly with government agencies, humanitarian  and emergency response organizations, and those  affected by crises. CCR’s support includes on-the-ground connectivity,  collaboration solutions, and security solutions for both  communities and support agencies. In addition, we  provide training to help build preparedness, response  capabilities, and long-term resilience to NGOs  supporting crisis-affected communities. CCR also  offers cash and technology"
"donations to humanitarian  nonprofit partners, as well as pro bono consulting on  network design and emergency connectivity solutions. FY24 Impact Responded to more than 30 natural disasters and humanitarian  crises with: FUNDING EQUIPMENT PERSONNEL NETWORK  SUPPORT US$6.9M in cash grants 770 CCR volunteers US$3.4M in product donations  70 solutions consulting  engagements US$1.2M in disaster campaigns  (employee donations and  matching gifts) Powering Communications  on the Ground Cisco’s"
"Network Emergency Responsible Vehicles (NERVs)  provide fast and secure communications when existing  communications may be disrupted or degraded. Offered free  of charge, onboard NERV features include: fully redundant  Cisco Meraki networking components for mission-critical  communications; hyperconverged Cisco UCS compute cluster;  Cisco Industrial IoT solutions for monitoring and control of  vehicle systems; and a high‑capacity, rechargeable, hybrid power  system that powers mission workloads"
"and improves readiness,  deployment longevity, and sustainability. New in fiscal 2024, CCR introduced features to help reach,  power, and connect to even more communities in need. This  includes Line-of-Sight 2.0 kits—comprised of Cisco's Ultra  Reliable Wireless Backhaul products—which extend the reach  of the NERV to remote networks beyond the limitations of WiFi  or when wired networks are not feasible. We also incorporated  a Starlink High‑Performance solution to add to the suite of"
"backhaul options. Take a virtual reality tour of the NERV and learn  more about the set-up and features. FY24 Purpose Report | 43 Intro Power Inclusive Future Looking Ahead For All  “ During the Maui wildfires, all our distribution sites were in  areas without cellular service. Being able to leverage satellite  communications allowed us to ensure nourishing food reached  anyone in need. - Brian Chan, IT Systems and Networking Engineer, World Central Kitchen Responding to Wildfires in Maui In"
"August 2023, wildfires broke out in Hawaii,  prompting evacuations and causing widespread  damage. The lack of connectivity left many unable  to use credit or debit cards, access ATMs, or pay  for essential items like gas, food, and medication.  CCR mobilized to restore critical Internet, wireless,  and phone connectivity for government agencies  and nonprofits. We also launched an employee  donation-matching disaster campaign that raised  US$360,000 to support the American Red Cross,"
"Americares, the Maui Food Bank, and World  Central Kitchen. Combatting Homelessness In 2018, Cisco committed US$50 million in grant  funding over five years—the largest corporate donation  of its kind at the time—to address homelessness in  Santa Clara County, California. We have far exceeded  our original commitment and geographic scope— investing US$130 million to address housing and  homelessness globally. This includes US$22 million in  product donations to homeless service organizations"
"and supportive housing developments around the  Learn more about Cisco’s efforts  to address homelessness. world. In Santa Clara County, Cisco’s flexible, private  funding has leveraged over US$1.5 billion in public  funding to create 3,500 homes, and our homelessness  prevention efforts with Destination: Home have  prevented 7,200 households from becoming homeless. Protecting Against Hackers Many nonprofits and NGOs lack enterprise-grade  cybersecurity, giving bad actors the opportunity to"
"either disrupt rescue operations or steal personal,  financial, or government data. CCR and NetHope  work together to boost nonprofits’ cybersecurity  capabilities and provide the technology, cooperation,  and expertise that will thwart hackers, even during  vulnerable crisis situations. In addition to the world-class security that is built  into every product, Cisco provides innovative  mobile networking kits that are highly effective— and secure—in crisis situations. We also use AI  to analyze"
"network activity for malicious patterns  that allow our response partners to identify and  neutralize threats faster, minimizing risk and  protecting vulnerable populations’ data. FY24 Purpose Report | 44 Intro Power Inclusive Future Looking Ahead For All  Community Enablement We leverage our unique strengths as a company  to create a better world, striving to connect  everyone, everywhere and break down barriers  to education, technology, and opportunity. Dismantling Barriers  Through"
"Technology Technology plays a critical role in educational institutions  everywhere, enhancing learning experiences, facilitating  information access, and preparing students for our digital- first world. Cybersecurity is also foundational to a safe and  prosperous future for all educational organizations, including  Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs).  America's HBCUs are treasured institutions and cornerstones  of educational excellence and cultural heritage in the United"
"States. In additional to financial support, Cisco works with  our partners to support these institutions through our  technology and services. For example, at Denmark Technical  College, a two-year HBCU located in South Carolina, Cisco  and a partner donated equipment and services to upgrade  IT infrastructure. This ensured Denmark Tech could meet  National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)  cybersecurity standards, locking in their eligibility for critical  Title IV Federal Student"
"Aid. Since fiscal 2020, we completed  63 NIST assessments and helped to preserve US$1.5 billion  in Title IV Federal Funding at HBCUs. Cisco also connected Denmark Tech with Fusion Cyber, a  company that collaborates with colleges and universities  to offer comprehensive online cybersecurity training.  This career-oriented program encompasses certification,  mentorship, and job coaching to equip students for careers  in cybersecurity. Graduates of the program can stay in  their community,"
"positively impacting the local economy  and bringing a renewed sense of hope and optimism to  the region. See how Cisco is helping Denmark  Technical College upgrade its IT  infrastructure. Expanding Partnerships  and Impact Our inaugural work with HBCUs serves as a blueprint  that we are now using to expand to tribal colleges  and Hispanic-serving institutions. In fiscal 2024, we  completed a NIST assessment and plan to launch  Cisco Networking Academy at Ilisagvik College, a tribal  college"
"located in Utqiaġvik (Barrow) Alaska. Students  at the college have access to a high‑quality education  in a learning environment that supports Iñupiaq culture,  language, values, and traditions. FY24 Purpose Report | 45 Intro Power Inclusive Future Looking Ahead For All  Accessibility Cisco is enhancing the digital experience  for individuals with disabilities by  embedding accessibility into our  products, websites, and documentation. While technology has the potential to create greater  value"
"for people with disabilities, lack of accessible  design in digital products, websites, and resources  remains a major barrier. We aim to revolutionize the  digital experience so that everyone, everywhere can  participate fully in the digital economy and society. Office of Accessibility In fiscal 2024, we created the Office of  Accessibility to bring greater focus, coordination,  and collaboration to our efforts to accelerate  embedding accessibility into our business. Our  vision is to create a"
"future where every digital  service and product is designed with inclusivity  to dismantle barriers, fuel innovation, and enable  individuals with disabilities to thrive. We work in partnership across the company,  including with our disabled and neurodivergent  communities, to build solutions that meet the needs  of people of all different abilities—from ideation  through development, content creation, and  user testing. The Office of Accessibility enhances the experience  for individuals with"
"disabilities, fosters innovation,  and drives business success through three  primary functions: •  Strategy and Governance: Incorporate  accessibility as a key consideration in business  decisions, embedding accessibility principles at  every stage of the product life cycle, as well as  in procurement, mergers and acquisitions, and  the employee experience. •  Education and Consulting: Increase our  ecosystem’s understanding of accessibility, and  promote best practices for making our products,"
"websites, and documentation more accessible. •        Advocacy: Represent Cisco’s accessibility  commitment and efforts to all stakeholders. Emerging trends and innovations in AI can  significantly impact and advance universal design  and accessibility. We evaluate new AI tools by  gauging their accessibility and evaluating how we  can use them to give neurodivergent users and  users with other disabilities more options to interact  with Cisco products in the way that best suits  their needs."
"It’s important to note that while these innovations  offer significant potential, they also come with  challenges related to privacy, ethics, and ensuring  that the benefits of AI are equitably distributed.  Active engagement from diverse stakeholders,  including the disability community, is crucial to  ensure that these emerging technologies are  developed and implemented in ways that truly  enhance accessibility and universal design. Incorporating Accessibility  into our Products In Webex, we"
"launched innovative features, like the Webex AI assistant,  that can inform end users about what they've missed if they arrive late,  list action items, and provide meeting summaries. These features make it  easier for some neurodivergent users to participate fully in meetings and  collaborate effectively with their teams. Our new Sign Language Interpreter  feature allows hosts, participants, and interpreters to easily locate and view  each other, enabling those who need to see an interpreter to"
"customize  their view to always have the interpreter video visible. FY24 Purpose Report | 46 Intro Power Inclusive Future Looking Ahead For All  Public Policy and Advocacy There was a historic number of elections  in 2024, with more than 60 countries,  representing half the world's population,  going to the polls and ushering in  new governments and policies. Our Government Affairs team plays a strategic  role in partnering with governments to help them  advance their digitization goals, shape"
"laws and  regulations, and support ICT adoption—fostering an  environment where Cisco's technologies facilitate  inclusive access and opportunity. Bolstering Educational  Institutions As a leading networking and security provider,  Cisco is well-positioned to anticipate evolving  threats and the need for adaptive policy measures.  We played a pivotal role in advocating for the  U.S. Federal Communications Commission’s  (FCC) US$200 million K-12 Cybersecurity Pilot  Program, which could open the"
"door to permanently  modernize the FCC's US$4 billion E-Rate program  that subsidizes networking connectivity in schools  and libraries. The K-12 Cybersecurity Pilot Program  will assess the impact and cost of equipping  educational institutions with important cybersecurity  tools, including next-generation firewalls, multifactor  authentication, endpoint protection, and cloud- based applications to defend against cyber attacks.  This initiative will help determine how to make  digital learning"
"environments safer, as well as  how to enable children to access and utilize  digital resources without the risk of compromising  their personal data or the integrity of their  learning platforms. Expanding  Broadband Access Internet access is a catalyst for economic  opportunity, educational experiences, and  community resilience—particularly in historically  underserved regions. To create a more inclusive  society through enhanced connectivity, Cisco  advocated for the U.S. Infrastructure"
"Investment  and Jobs Act in 2021, which included a historic  allocation of more than US$42 billion to revolutionize  broadband access and strengthen the nation's  digital infrastructure. Fast forward to today, and the  law’s Broadband Equity, Access, and Deployment  Program is deploying those funds to enable  broadband planning, infrastructure deployment,  and adoption programs across the United States.  Cisco is proudly engaging U.S. federal, state, and  local governments to empower them in"
"navigating  the program and helping communities unlock the  program’s full potential for transformative impact. Ensuring Education  Access in Ukraine In other parts of the world, our work and purpose  take a different yet vitally important shape. Amid  the war in Ukraine, we partnered with the United  States Agency for International Development  (USAID) to keep education alive. Through efforts by  our Country Digital Acceleration and Government  Affairs teams, Cisco and USAID delivered critical"
"telecommunications equipment to Ukrainian  universities and established trainings for the  next generation of cybersecurity experts. We  also helped provide continued access to education  by distributing Wi-Fi routers to 1,600 schools and  1,000 video camera kits to enable remote learning  due to unsafe conditions. Learn more about how we use public  policy for Responsible AI. Government  Affairs Priorities •      Catalyze innovation and investment •    Put the power of the Internet in the"
"hands of more people •    Securely connect the future •   Build next-gen wireless networks •      Champion free and inclusive trade •     Invest in people and knowledge •        Enable sustainability “ Looking to the next  40 years and beyond, our  unwavering commitment to  collaborating with governments  and global leaders will remain a  cornerstone of Cisco’s work to  ensure that everyone, everywhere,  can access and benefit from the  opportunities of the digital age. - Jeff Campbell, SVP and"
"Chief  Government Strategy Officer, Cisco FY24 Purpose Report | 47 Intro Power Inclusive Future Looking Ahead For All  Looking Ahead We’ve made an impact for 40 years— and we’re not slowing down Each year, we look back and ask ourselves: What have we  accomplished? What have we learned? And, most importantly,  what are our biggest opportunities for impact ahead? To celebrate  our 40th year, we’re already looking ahead to the future with  Splunk and how we can drive even greater success for our"
"customers, our partners, our employees, and our communities  together. There’s no better way to celebrate our anniversary than  setting our next big ambition to propel us into the future. FY24 Purpose Report | 48 Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead  Cisco and Splunk: Better Together For two decades, Splunk and its dedicated  team, affectionately known as 'Splunkers,' have  made significant contributions to the global  communities where they live and work. Over  the last 10 years"
"alone, Splunk has invested  more than US$62 million in grants, donations,  product offerings, and technology training,  underscoring our commitment to giving back. Throughout its recent history, Splunk has focused on  closing the data divide—the gap between those who  can effectively leverage data and those who cannot. By  supporting ethical and inclusive growth, upholding the  highest standards of data responsibility, privacy, and  ethical AI usage, and striving to reduce their environmental"
"impact, Splunk has been a pioneer in fostering a  responsible data-driven future. A cornerstone of its impact efforts is the Splunk  for Good initiative, which saw Splunkers support over  4,000 nonprofits through giving and volunteering in fiscal  year 2024. This initiative exemplifies Splunk’s dedication to  creating positive social change and its belief in the power  of technology to improve lives. As we look to the future, the synergy between Splunk's  people, energy, and technology and"
"Cisco's commitment  to Power an Inclusive Future for All holds immense  potential. Together, we can amplify our impact, leveraging  our combined strengths to drive innovation, bridge the  digital and data divide, and foster a more inclusive and  sustainable world. The partnership between Cisco and  Splunk is both a union of two industry leaders and a  powerful force for good, poised to create lasting, positive  change in the communities we serve. We are excited about the bright future ahead,"
"where the  integration of Splunk's cutting-edge data solutions and  Cisco's innovative technologies and expansive reach can  help us set even more ambitious goals and continue to  make a meaningful difference in the world. “ Splunkers share a deep belief in giving back, and we have  been on a transformational journey to drive positive impact  for our customers, our team, and in global communities. Now,  as part of Cisco, I'm excited that we have the opportunity to  do even more on an incredible"
"global scale. - Gary Steele, President, Go-to-Market and General Manager, Splunk FY24 Purpose Report | 49 Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead  Splunk’s Fiscal 2024 Highlights  and Accomplishments As part of Cisco, Splunk's positive global impact  continues and helps support Cisco's Purpose initiatives. DATA RESPONSIBILITY •    Developed and released Trustworthy AI Principles to  guide Splunk's AI usage and development. An internal  AI committee oversaw the adoption of trustworthy"
"AI  across the company. •   Met U.S. Executive Order 14028 by providing  software bill of materials documentation and identifying  open‑source software that might be vulnerable to  cybercrimes and attacks. •     Engaged national and global organizations around  data privacy and security. ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY •     Identified the carbon footprint of our purchased  goods and services and developed a supplier  engagement plan to reduce environmental impacts. •       Offered customers"
"Splunk’s Sustainability Toolkit, a  free customer application that provides a detailed view  into customers’ carbon footprint. •      Activated employees through Splunk Earth Alliance-led  initiatives, Earth Week programming, and workshops. ETHICAL & INCLUSIVE GROWTH •         Hosted an internal career mobility platform that  received more than 1,400 applications, creating  opportunities for meaningful careers and development. •      Launched Splunk Cafe, our global mentorship and  networking"
"platform, with approximately 2,600  Splunkers participating. •      Upgraded structures, systems, and processes for  Splunk's nine Inclusive Communities, each paired  with a sponsor from Splunk's Executive Leadership  Team, hosted Splunk's first Inclusive Communities  summit and invested in leader development. SOCIAL IMPACT •     Achieved 62% employee participation in Splunk giving  and volunteer programs, doubling participation over  three years. •       Reached US$5.7 million in technology and"
"training  donated to help close the data divide—the gap between  those who have access to high-quality data and those  who do not. •   Recognized a 45% year-over-year increase in the  number of learners reached through our workforce  development program. To learn more, check out these stories of impact: •     Help Me See: Expanding access to life-changing vision surgery •         Splunk’s Sustainability Toolkit: A view into customers’ carbon footprint •      Trevor Project: Using Technology to"
"help end LGBTQ+ Youth Suicide •     Splunking the London to Paris Cycle for Prostate Cancer FY24 Purpose Report | 50 Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead  Our Next Big Ambition: 40 Communities We’ve had four decades of immense impact—and  we’re just getting started. Nearly a decade ago, CEO Chuck Robbins posed a  simple question: How many lives could we impact if  we pushed ourselves to truly create a better world  for all? That question led to us positively impacting  over one"
"billion lives between fiscal 2016-2023—well  ahead of schedule. So, over the past year, we have been asking  ourselves an even simpler question: What’s next?  Taking knowledge from our last 40 years of  purpose-driven innovation, paired with our  learnings from our One Billion Lives goal, we have  been challenging ourselves to think bigger, more  creatively, and more communally. We began to  imagine what could be accomplished if we zoomed  out from the individual level and instead focused  on"
"the community level. And that’s exactly what we  intend to do next. In honor of our 40th anniversary, we’re excited to  introduce our next big ambition: 40 Communities.  Over the next 10 years, we intend to engage,  support, and invest in 40 communities around  the world. To do so, we plan to expand upon existing offerings  and contributions—including funding, technology,  and expertise—in both communities where  Cisco is currently engaged and newly identified  communities. But, most"
"importantly, we’ll tap into  our community partners—on-the-ground experts  who truly understand a community’s biggest needs,  goals, and opportunities, and who can help us best  determine how we can create the greatest impact. Together, we’ll strive to drive impact and create  communities that are: •   Connected: We’ll aim to reduce the digital and  data divide by ensuring inclusive and equitable  access to technology, knowledge, resources,  and opportunities. •      Resilient: We’ll act to"
"address systemic  inequities and build capabilities through digital  infrastructure, cybersecurity, capacity building,  humanitarian relief, education, and more. •     Thriving: We'll work to strengthen communities  by supporting economic security, independence,  and self-determination through access to  resources, including funding, technology, and  advisory support. Of course, there is much planning still to come— and that’s by design. There is no one-size-fits-all  approach when it comes to"
"our 40 communities;  each of them will require an intentional, tailored, and  localized approach for sustained impact. And we are  prepared to be there alongside these communities— from planning to execution—and sharing our  progress every step of the way. We are immensely proud of the impact we’ve made  over the past 40 years, and we are even more  hopeful about what’s to come. Together with our  communities, we’ll continue striving for a more  connected, resilient, and thriving world. FY24"
"Purpose Report | 51 Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead  A Message from Fran Katsoudas By putting Cisco’s Purpose into practice, we drive growth for our business, people, and communities. At this pivotal moment for Cisco, I find myself  reflecting on how much our Purpose work—ranging  from digital skilling to Circular Design Principles— has evolved in the past four decades and shifted  even in the last few months. As our industry has  transformed, so has Cisco. Today, technology"
"is a foundational pillar for our society, people,  governments, and environment. It has also become  the backbone of resilience, providing the access  and capabilities that ecosystems need to not just  survive, but thrive. The difficult truth, however, is that much of the  world’s population still cannot be described as  “resilient” and the gap is widening as innovation  and change accelerate. Our work to fulfill Cisco’s  Purpose—to Power an Inclusive Future for All—has  never been more urgent."
"We’re at a pivotal moment when it comes  to Purpose. We’re at a pivotal moment when it comes to the  need for our Purpose-driven work. According to the  UN’s latest report, the world is “severely off track”  when it comes to accomplishing the UN SDGs.  In 2023 we saw a record number of billion-dollar  natural disasters in the U.S. and the trend continued  into this year. We’re facing geopolitical conflicts, a  polarizing political landscape, and digital divides.  As we harness the benefits and"
"opportunities of AI,  we must carefully consider the impact of the energy  demands on our planet. We navigate these global dynamics anchored  by a deep belief that Purpose and profit are not  mutually exclusive. By putting our Purpose into  practice, we drive growth for our business, people,  and communities. Through this framework we’ve  seen that what’s good for the world is good for  business. Cisco’s Purpose is woven internally across  our company and scaled externally by our partner"
"ecosystem. One example of our collective impact  has been education as a pathway to participation.  We are investing in upskilling ourselves, our  partners, and vulnerable communities. At Cisco, we are taking critical steps to embrace  the AI revolution through skilling, and we are  helping communities, and our industry do the  same. AI is shaping our approach to learning and  influencing how we create an AI-ready workforce  (enablement for AI, by AI), and we see the potential  to exponentially"
"increase the quality, speed, and  scale of our impact. Our work to meet this opportunity is starting to  take hold. We have already reached 7.7 million  learners over the past two fiscal years, well on our  way towards our goal of 25 million more learners  by the end of fiscal 2032. We are empowering  learners globally with Cisco Networking Academy’s  self‑paced AI learning content, AI Fundamentals  with IBM SkillsBuild, and with over 350 AI classes  offered on Cisco U. In addition, our newly-"
"launched  AI-Enabled ICT Workforce Consortium assesses  AI’s impact on technology jobs and identifies new  skills pathways. We also made an US$80 million  investment in digital skills for our Partner ecosystem,  showing our commitment to learning as foundational  to our shared future. As a technology company, we know the importance  of user experience and in this spirit, we’re working  to understand the impact of AI on real jobs and  employees. Our new Teaming with AI program  enables teams to"
"experiment with AI to find new  ways of driving productivity and innovation—findings  we hope to apply more broadly. One of the most  important findings has been the power of community  when pushing boundaries and crossing into  new frontiers. “ While we will never be able to anticipate all the ways our societies will shift,  we can commit to being driven by our Purpose and helping communities around  the world build a more resilient and inclusive future for all. FY24 Purpose Report | 52 Intro"
"Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead  There’s immense opportunity in AI, and we must bring  others along. The adage that “talent is equally distributed, but opportunity  is not” remains more relevant than ever in the age of AI. The  ability to access and leverage digital technologies is only  becoming more critical as AI develops, for us individually  and collectively. As we look at emerging markets around the globe, the  potential economic impact of AI is immense. Recent  estimates"
"suggest AI could increase Africa’s economy by  US$2.9 trillion by 2030 and that India’s AI services could be  worth US$17 billion by 2027. But this incredible potential can  only be realized if work is done to close the digital and data  divide along the way. Many other developing economies lag  far behind in resilience and connectivity, curtailing access to  education, healthcare, jobs, and more. In fact, 2.6 billion people around the world are still without  Internet access, and even among"
"those that are connected,  there are disparities in quality and affordability. Fixed- broadband Internet needed for data-intensive apps is  prohibitively expensive, if available at all. And 3G—not even  4G—remains by far the prevalent mobile technology in less  economically developed countries. Reliably and securely  connecting populations is the first step toward inclusion, and  we should all feel the imperative to connect the unconnected  and battle this growing divide. Our next big ambition"
"is to help 40 Communities thrive. As the world enters the intelligent age and Cisco enters its  next decade, we have an incredible opportunity to lead the  industry ethically, responsibly, and sustainably—and to bring  others along with us. Last year, we exceeded our goal (well  ahead of schedule) to positively impact one billion lives, and  we learned that when we access the power of One Cisco,  we can create impact at scale. As we celebrate 40 years of impact, we have set our next  big"
"ambition: over the next decade, we intend to engage,  support, and invest in 40 communities around the globe.  We are excited to work hand-in-hand with local community  partners to drive connected, resilient, and thriving communities. To drive change, we must have public-private  partnerships built on trust. Our continued success is dependent on ongoing learning,  leadership enablement, and collaborative partnerships.  But the critical work ahead can only be done when one  key element is"
"present: trust. Trust with our customers,  government leaders, our people, and our communities. We  know that trust is our most valuable currency—and we are  committed to leading with secure, trusted solutions, just as  we have for 40 years. The 2024 Edelman Trust Barometer found that businesses  are most trusted to integrate innovations into society—more  than NGOs, government, or the media. It’s a privilege to have  that trust and a responsibility that Cisco doesn’t take lightly. Looking back"
"while looking ahead. I’ve been lucky to have a front-row view of Cisco’s  innovation, technology, and growth for nearly 30 of the past  40 years, watching the company evolve from connecting  computers to connecting communities across the world.  As we’ve showcased in this year’s Purpose Report, our  progress is accelerating especially as AI helps us become  more human, more creative, and more productive. And yet, there is still so much more for us to do. Looking  ahead, we’ll never be able to"
"anticipate all the needs or how  our societies will shift. But we can commit to being powered  by our Purpose and helping communities around the world  build a more resilient and inclusive future for all. Best, Fran Katsoudas Executive Vice President and Chief People, Policy, &  Purpose Officer FY24 Purpose Report | 53 Intro Power Inclusive Future For All Looking Ahead  Purpose Reporting at Cisco Our reporting is informed by an ESG materiality assessment1 and aligns with many globally recognized"
"frameworks.  We also support the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) and share the UN’s vision for  peace and prosperity for people and the planet. We have been a participating company in the UN Global Compact  since 2001. Our Purpose strategy and priorities, which are shaped by our stakeholder engagement and ESG  materiality assessment initiative, align with and support the UN SDGs. Below, explore examples of our frameworks: Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability"
"Accounting Standards Board Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) UN SDGs Awards and rankings We participate in and monitor our performance through ratings and rankings to understand our strengths and areas  for improvement. Examples in fiscal 2024 include: •        CDP Climate Change A List •     EcoVadis Gold Medal •   Ranked #1 in Institute of Public & Environmental Affairs (IPE) Supply Chain Corporate Information Transparency  Index"
"(CITI)-IT Industry •      Ranked #2 in the Gartner® 2024 Supply Chain Top 25 •    World Index and North America Index of Dow Jones Sustainability Index Visit Cisco’s Purpose Reporting Hub  for more information on: •   Our strategy •  Stakeholder engagement and ESG materiality1 •   Key ratings and rankings •      Policies, positions, and guides         1       ESG materiality, as referred to in this report, and our ESG materiality assessment process are different from materiality in the context"
"of SEC disclosure obligations and/or other applicable regulatory disclosures globally. Issues deemed material for our voluntary Purpose reporting and for  determining our Purpose strategy may not be considered material for SEC and/or other regulatory purposes, nor does inclusion of information in our voluntary reporting indicate that the topic or information is material to Cisco's business or operating results.  Americas Headquarters San Jose, CA, USA Asia Pacific Headquarters Singapore Europe"
"Headquarters Amsterdam, The Netherlands Cisco has approximately 400 offices worldwide. Addresses, phone numbers, and fax numbers are listed on the Cisco website at www.cisco.com/go/offices. Cisco and the Cisco logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Cisco and/or its affiliates in the United States and other countries. To view a list of Cisco trademarks, go  to this URL: www.cisco.com/go/trademarks. Third-party trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners. The use of"
"the word “partner” does not imply a  partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company. (111OR) © 2024 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. This document is Cisco public information. Version 2, April 2025 Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act  of 1934, as amended. All statements other than statements of historical"
"facts are statements that could be deemed forward‑looking statements. These statements are based  on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as  “expects,” “anticipates,” “targets,” “goals,” “projects,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “momentum,” “seeks,” “estimates,” “continues,” “endeavors,” “strives,” “may,” “aim,” variations  of such words, and similar expressions are"
"intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to (1) our goals, commitments, and programs;  (2) our business plans, initiatives, and objectives; (3) our assumptions and expectations; (4) the scope and impact of our corporate responsibility risks and opportunities; and  (5) standards and expectations of third parties are forward-looking. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks,"
"uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including those identified in our most recent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 10-K and  Form 10‑Q. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update any forward‑looking statement. Cisco continuously strives for transparency in our reporting on our Purpose initiatives, goals, and progress. We set ambitious timelines and goals in an effort to"
"maximize progress,  and we strive to transparently report on our progress. It takes time to integrate data from recent acquisitions into the data streams that support our analyses. Therefore, unless otherwise noted, the information included in this report  includes data for acquisitions completed before the end of our previous fiscal year. For purposes of this report, Splunk´s data is not integrated. Splunk´s fiscal 2024 highlights and  accomplishments are included on page 54. The FY24 Purpose"
"Report has been updated as of April 2025 to reflect changes based on limited assurance review of Scope 1-3 emissions, waste, and water usage data. More  information on our independent third-party assurance process, including our fiscal 2024 assurance statement, is available on our Purpose Reporting Hub."
