"2024 Sustainability Report DTE Energy  Table of contents 2024 DTE Sustainability Report   page 2 Table of contents Table of contents     2 President and CEO letter      3 About this Report     4 Environmental         6 Creating a clean energy future for all        6 Infrastructure investments    6 DTE Electric carbon reduction goals   7 Electric solar and wind energy investments    7 MIGreenPower          7 Clean energy transition       7 CleanVision IRP       8 DTE Gas decarbonization goals"
"10 DTE Gas net zero commitment  10 Natural Gas Balance          10 DTE helps make NFL Draft carbon neutral      11 A cleaner and sustainable natural gas supply         11 Water management     11 Reducing waste       12 Biodiversity         13 Social       14 Customer affordability       14 Human capital management     15 Talent management    15 Labor relations      16 Ensuring our talent competitiveness  16 Employee Resource Groups, Business Resource  Groups and Governance Structure         17"
"Promote workforce inclusion  18 Employee safety      19 Safety management    19 Pre-job briefs focus on safety hazards       19 Maintaining a safety culture         19 Tracking safety performance  20 Supply chain management      20 Supplier pre-qualification and risk management      20 Code of conduct       20 Supplier safety      20 Supplier performance management      20 Fostering a more sustainable supply chain    20 Supporting Michigan businesses       21 Supplier diversity   21 Volunteerism"
"21 Governance   22 Sustainability oversight     22 Board and employee ethics    22 Board of Directors   23 Risk governance      23 Political participation      24 Cybersecurity        24 Appendix     25 EEI Sustainability Template: Quantitative   Information      26 AGA Voluntary Sustainability Metrics:   Quantitative Information     30 Climate Goals        36 GRI index    38 Non-priority issues  53 Industry Associations and National Advocacy  Organizations   54 Wildlife Habitat Council"
"Certified Sites     55 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board   (SASB)   56 DTE Energy Greenhouse Gas Emissions   Summary        61 Task Force on Climate-related Financial   Disclosures (TCFD) Report  62 > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Intro 2024 DTE Sustainability Report          page 3 President and CEO letter At DTE Energy, we strive to do what’s best for our customers, our environment and the communities in which we live  and serve. In the face of the accelerating"
"challenges of more extreme weather and greater electric demand, we are  committed now, more than ever, to building the electric grid of the future and providing our customers with reliable,  cleaner and affordable energy to power Michigan forward. As I step into the role of Chief Executive Officer, I’m honored to lead a team whose consistent achievements show their  deep commitment to sustainability and innovation. Today, our renewable energy portfolio spans 20 wind parks and 34  solar parks –"
"each located in Michigan – generating enough clean energy to power more than 750,000 homes. While  we are proud of our progress, we recognize that significant work lies ahead in order to eliminate the use of coal in  2032 and achieve a net-zero carbon future. That journey includes developing more than 18,000 megawatts of renewables – the equivalent to powering  approximately 5.9 million homes. It also means accelerating the development of energy storage, targeting an  additional 780 megawatts"
"through 2030 with a goal of more than 2,900 megawatts of storage by 2042.  At the same time, we are racing to build the electric grid of the future – one that is smarter, stronger and more resilient  – to improve electric reliability and more effectively connect our cleaner energy generation to the communities we  serve. Through this work, we are committed to reducing power outages by 30% and cutting system outage duration in  half by the end of 2029. Our customers are seeing the results, with a"
"nearly 70% improvement in time spent without  power in 2024 compared to the previous year. All this is underway while we invest at a pace that balances affordability for our customers, keeping bill increases  below the rate of inflation and delivering programs and services that meet the needs of our most vulnerable  customers.  Our goal is clear – to provide more reliable, cleaner and affordable energy.  And it is centered around people – our customers, communities and employees.   In this"
"report, you will find information about this work and more. Thank you for joining us on our journey.  Joi Harris   President and Chief Executive Officer   DTE Energy   Our goal is clear –   to provide more reliable,  cleaner and affordable energy.  > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Intro 2024 DTE Sustainability Report   page 4 About this report  At DTE, we strive to do what’s right for our employees, customers, communities and other stakeholders. That  means environmental,"
"social and governance matters guide us in how we do business, including in our operations,  environmental efforts, corporate governance, corporate citizenship and human capital management. We believe  in transparently sharing our sustainability strategies and ensuring data accuracy to help drive progress across  the communities we serve and in our industry. DTE manages its sustainability priorities in a thoughtful way,  intentionally engaging stakeholders to understand changing opportunities and"
"expectations. Our reporting aims  to be research-based, cross-functional, stakeholder-centered and inclusive, and we monitor progress through  management dashboards to track metrics.   For additional information, see our appendix section. Information  relating to forward-looking statements, unless otherwise specified, references to “DTE, our company, we, and  our” in this Report reflect information for DTE Energy and its affiliates, consolidated subsidiaries or its sources of  information"
"(collectively, the “Company”). References to DTE Electric, DTE Gas and DTE Vantage refer to information  that is applicable only to such businesses, unless otherwise stated. Certain information presented herein includes  “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 with  respect to the financial condition, results of operations, and businesses of the Company. Statements that do not  relate strictly to historical or current facts are"
"based on current expectations, estimates, projections, opinions or  beliefs of the Company as of the date of this Report. Words such as “aim,” “hope,” “strategy,” “future,” “opportunity,”  “target,” “commit,” “seek,” “strive,” anticipate, estimate, could, would, will, “will be,” “will continue,” “should,”  may, forecast, approximate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, “aspiration,” “goals” and other words  of similar meaning, or the negative thereof, in connection with any discussion of"
"future operating or financial  matters, signify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results and  conditions, but rather are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties that may cause actual future  results to be materially different from those contemplated, projected, estimated or budgeted. Many factors may  impact forward-looking statements of the Company. New factors emerge from time to time. The Company cannot  predict what factors"
"may arise or how such factors may cause results to differ materially from those contained in  any forward-looking statement. The factors, risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance,  and results of DTE’s business and forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those set forth in  About this Report > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Intro 2024 DTE Sustainability Report     page 5"
"this Report and in the reports the Company files from time to time with the Securities  and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Any forward-looking statements speak only as  of the date on which such statements are made. The Company undertakes no obligation  to correct or update any forward-looking statement, to reflect events or circumstances  after the date on which such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of  unanticipated events. There can be no assurance that the Company’s"
"environmental,  social and governance (“ESG”) and sustainability policies, procedures, initiatives and  goals (including climate-related initiatives and goals) as described in this Report will  continue; such policies, procedures, initiatives and goals could change, even materially.  The Company is permitted to determine in its discretion that it is not feasible or practical  to implement or complete certain of its ESG and sustainability policies, procedures,  initiatives and goals based on"
"cost, timing, or other considerations. Additionally, terms  such as “ESG,” “impact,” “best for the world” and “sustainability” can be subjective in  nature, and there is no representation or guarantee that these terms, as used in the  report, will reflect the beliefs or values, policies, principles, frameworks or preferred  practices of any particular investor or other third-party or reflect market trends. The  ESG, sustainability, best for the world, climate or impact goals, commitments,"
"incentives  and initiatives outlined in this report are purely voluntary, are not binding on the  Company’s business or investment decisions and/ or management and do not constitute  a guarantee, promise or commitment regarding actual or potential positive impacts or  outcomes. In particular, among other statements, statements relating to the Company’s  climate-related policies, procedures, initiatives or goals (including, for the avoidance of  doubt, net zero goals) and the Company’s targets,"
"aims and objectives in connection with  those ambitions (including greenhouse gas emissions reduction objectives), and to the  Company’s expectations, targets and aims for capital expenditure (including the proportion  of investment allocated to and capital employed in energy transition investments, coal  plant retirements, renewable energy investments, energy efficiency enhancements, and  emerging technological solutions), are aspirational and not guarantees or promises that  all targets, aims"
"and objectives will be met. Statistics and metrics relating to ESG and  climate related matters are estimates and may be based on assumptions or developing  standards. The data contained herein has not been verified or otherwise assured by an  independent third party. The Company has established, and may in the future establish,  certain ESG, sustainability, best for the world, climate or impact goals, commitments,  incentives and initiatives, including but not limited to those relating to"
"greenhouse  gas emissions reductions. The Company makes no representation or warranty, express  or implied, with respect to the accuracy, fairness, reasonableness or completeness of  any of the information contained herein and expressly disclaims any responsibility or  liability. Actual results may differ materially from any forward-looking statements.  > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Environmental 2024 DTE Sustainability Report          page 6 Creating a clean energy"
"future for all  DTE is focused on creating a cleaner, healthier environment today and for generations to come. We’re doing  this by investing billions of dollars on behalf of our customers in cleaner sources of energy generation, a more  resilient grid and improvements to our natural gas supply and delivery systems. Our electric and gas operations  have ambitious goals to achieve net zero by 2050 and are working to improve the reliability of our energy  delivery systems to meet the needs of a"
"21st-century economy. We describe how we will meet these goals  safely, reliably and affordably in the sections below. Additionally, DTE is working to grow its clean energy  portfolio in accordance with Michigan’s energy law, which requires DTE to have a 100% clean energy portfolio by  2040. DTE Electric’s next Integrated Resource Plan – to be filed at the end of 2026 – will provide greater detail  on the company’s approach to meeting the clean energy portfolio standard of 80% in 2035 and 100%"
"in 2040.  Clean energy includes renewables, nuclear and natural gas-fired plants that utilize carbon capture and storage  systems. The legislation also requires 50% of an electric utility's energy to be generated from renewable sources  by 2030 and 60% by 2035. Visit dtecleanenergy.com for more information. Infrastructure investments  DTE is investing in both its electric grid and natural gas infrastructure to provide safe, reliable and affordable  energy to customers.  In 2023, DTE Electric"
"released a distribution grid plan that includes a $9 billion investment in our electric grid  over five years, preparing our infrastructure for 21st century demands posed by the electrification of vehicles,  increasing severe weather and the fast-evolving needs of consumers and businesses. From 2019 through the  end of 2024, DTE invested over $1 billion in the Tree Trim Surge – a robust vegetation management program to  reclaim our right of ways and maintain enhanced clearances around our"
"infrastructure. At the end of 2024, our  system was more than 90% on track for our tree trimming cycle. Our investments also include increased smart  grid automation, pole and pole top maintenance and rebuilding significant portions of the grid, all combining to  modernize our infrastructure. For more details, see our 2023 Distribution Grid Plan.   Environmental $9 billion  investment in  our electric grid  over five years NetZero  by 2050 > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro >"
"Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Environmental 2024 DTE Sustainability Report      page 7 DTE Gas is investing $3.3 billion through 2035 to replace legacy natural gas  pipelines with durable, corrosion-resistant polyethylene materials. By the time  work is completed, 4,000 miles of natural gas pipes will be upgraded, which  will reduce our annual greenhouse gas emissions by an estimated 500,000  metric tons CO2-e – the equivalent of the annual emissions from more than"
"100,000 cars. These investments support thousands of jobs and businesses throughout  the state and a clean, modern energy infrastructure of the future supporting  economic growth for Michigan’s communities. DTE Electric carbon reduction goals Electric solar and wind energy investments  DTE is Michigan’s leading producer of renewable energy, and we are  committed to continued growth of our renewable energy portfolio as part  of our goal to achieve net zero carbon emissions. Since 2009, DTE has"
"invested $4.6 billion in renewable energy infrastructure. We plan to invest an  additional $4 billion over the next several years, with multiple new solar parks  under construction. As of the end of 2024, our portfolio of 20 wind parks and  34 solar parks throughout the state generated enough clean energy to serve  the needs of more than 750,000 customers. By 2042, we plan to have more  than 18,000 megawatts of renewable energy generation capacity – enough  clean energy to power the equivalent"
"of approximately 5.9 million homes.   MIGreenPower  DTE’s MIGreenPower program enables both residential  and commercial customers to reduce their carbon  footprints by attributing more of their electricity use  to our wind and solar projects beyond the approximate  15% we already provide. According to the National  Renewable Energy Laboratory, MIGreenPower is one  of the largest voluntary renewable energy programs  in the country. It is also Michigan’s largest community  solar program. At the"
"end of 2024, program subscribers  included nearly 100,000 residential customers and  1,600 businesses. This includes notable customer  commitments from companies such as Ford Motor  Company and Stellantis, with whom we hold the two  largest voluntary renewable energy agreements through  a utility in the U.S., based on BloombergNEF’s Corporate  PPA Database. On an annual basis, MIGreenPower customers have  enrolled nearly 5.5 million megawatt hours of clean  energy in the program, which has the"
"environmental  benefit equivalent to taking more than 860,000  gasoline-powered vehicles off the road. MIGreenPower  is also driving the addition of thousands of megawatts  of new clean energy to the grid. In 2024, DTE began  construction on two new solar parks funded through  MIGreenPower enrollments. Clean energy transition A key part of our clean energy transformation and net  zero carbon emissions goal involves the sequential  retirement of our coal-fired power plants. Our company"
"established a vision to retire coal-fired power plants  with PRIDE (People, Respect, Integrity, Dignity and  Engagement). This vision is rooted in the concept that  the plants and employees who operate them every  day have been partnering with nearby communities  for nearly 100 years. The initiative seeks to ensure  a thoughtful and dignified transition of these power  plants, the employees and their host communities. A  key commitment we have made in the retirement of  $4.6B  invested in"
"renewable energy  infrastructure 18,000mw  renewable energy  generation  capacity > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Environmental 2024 DTE Sustainability Report      page 8 our coal plants is to avoid employee layoffs. Through the  Run with PRIDE initiative, we will create a positive future  through a variety of efforts, including partnering with our  labor unions to equip employees with training, skills and  opportunities to succeed in other roles at our company.  We"
"continue to work closely with local leaders,  government officials and businesses in these communities  to foster development and investment through grants  and volunteer efforts. Once plants are retired, the sites  lend themselves to energy storage and industrial or  intermodal transportation applications due to existing  electrical infrastructure, as well as rail and ship access.  Through collaboration with local and state governmental  and economic development authorities, as well as the"
"public-private sector, we are creating new Michigan jobs,  supporting local communities and strengthening our state’s  economy.  One example is the Trenton Channel Energy Center, a  220-megawatt battery energy storage center currently  being constructed at the site of DTE’s retired Trenton  Channel coal power plant. When complete in 2026, the  facility is expected to be the largest standalone battery  energy storage project in the Great Lakes region. It  represents a major step toward DTE’s goal"
"to more than  double its total energy storage capacity by 2042 and  brings the State of Michigan significantly closer to its own  Statewide Storage Target. The Trenton Channel Energy Center will have the  capacity to store enough electricity to power nearly  40,000 homes and distribute that power to customers  when they need it. This will reduce strain on the grid,  decrease the need to start and stop generation as demand  fluctuates and augment DTE’s growing fleet of renewable  generation – all"
"of which benefit DTE customers. The site’s  transformation reinforces DTE’s commitment to bringing  more Michigan-made resources online, while continuing to  support the Trenton community. This new project will bring  additional tax revenue to the Trenton community that can  be used to help fund projects including roads, schools,  police and fire initiatives and more.   Proposed generation mix (2005-2042 MWh)  Coal            Nuclear            Natural Gas            Storage"
"Renewables 2005 2023 2027 2029 2033 2042 77% 17% 2% 3% 1% 45% 19% 19% 14% 3% 31% 19% 24% 4% 22% 15% 20% 27% 6% 32% 18% 34% 6% 42% 12% 20% 6% 62% CleanVision IRP Climate change is one of the defining issues of our era, and DTE Electric  is fundamentally transforming the way we generate power to reduce  carbon emissions. In 2022, DTE Electric issued our CleanVision Integrated  Resource Plan (IRP), proposing to accelerate coal plant retirements and  invest in cleaner Michigan-made energy –"
"including wind and solar parks  – to accelerate reductions in carbon emissions. On July 26, 2023, the  The Trenton Channel  Energy Center will  have the capacity  to store enough  electricity to power  nearly 40,000 homes settlement was approved by the Michigan Public Service Commission.  DTE Electric will file its next IRP by December 2026, which will further  transform our generation fleet. You can find more information, including  the approved 2022 IRP, at DTECleanEnergy.com. > Environment >"
"Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Environmental 2024 DTE Sustainability Report   page 9 Converting Belle River to natural gas also allows DTE to add  thousands of megawatts of renewables onto the grid in advance  of the first two units of Monroe Power Plant retiring in 2028,  protecting customer affordability and system reliability. Our Blue  Water Energy Center (BWEC), located in East China Township, is  a state-of-the-art 1,127 MW natural gas combined-cycle plant that  provides 24/7,"
"always available power generation. BWEC enabled the  retirement of three coal-fired power plants without impacting system  reliability, while sharply reducing carbon emissions. Electric CO2 reductions 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 65%     in 2028 Net zero by 2050 85%     in 2032 32%     by the end of 2023 90%     by 2040 65%   CO2 reductions in  2028 Our bold net zero carbon emissions goal in our CleanVision IRP  sets the framework to accelerate our prior carbon emissions"
"reduction targets and reduce our CO2 emissions 65% in 2028  and 85% in 2032. DTE’s energy efficiency portfolio assists with these emission  reductions. We are maintaining the momentum our customer  energy efficiency portfolio has achieved since its launch in  2009. We have continued to grow customer acceptance and  adoption of energy efficiency measures: since their inception,  electric customers have utilized DTE’s energy efficiency  programs 11.6 million times and gas customers have utilized"
"these programs 5.6 million times. In 2024, DTE Electric  exceeded its electric energy savings goal of 2% of 2023 planned  retail sales.  In addition to carbon emissions, we have cut emissions of  conventional air pollutants at our operating power plants  by applying state-of-the-art technology for control of these  pollutants and through the retirement of previously operational  coal plants. We have already reduced emissions of sulfur  dioxide, nitrogen oxides, mercury and particulate matter  by"
"more than 80% since 2005, and we will reduce these  pollutants by more than 90% by 2040. In addition to wind  and solar energy sources, natural gas will remain a critical  part of Michigan’s energy portfolio as we work to ensure  generation keeps up with demand. Our CleanVision IRP calls  for repurposing existing infrastructure at the Belle River Power  Plant by converting its fuel source from coal to natural gas. The  Belle River plant will run when it is most needed, such as in  extreme summer"
"heat. This economic approach will be a fraction  of the cost of building a brand-new natural gas plant and will  reduce carbon emissions 90-95% from current coal operations at  Belle River.  > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Environmental 2024 DTE Sustainability Report    page 10 DTE Gas decarbonization goals DTE Gas net zero commitment DTE Gas is also on a journey to achieve net zero carbon  emissions for our internal operations and gas supply by  2050. The company’s"
"emission reduction commitments  – combined with customer participation in energy  efficiency programs and Natural Gas Balance – aim to  reduce annual greenhouse gas emissions throughout the  natural gas supply chain. Our commitments to replacing old steel and cast-iron  pipes with new and more efficient polyethylene main  lines, implementing new technologies to detect leaks,  reducing venting of gas during maintenance and  predictive compressor station maintenance, are reducing  emissions of"
"methane, a potent greenhouse gas. Utility Distribution Infrastructure Encouraging  transparent  and consistent  reporting of  methane emissions Sourcing gas with  lower methane  intensities  Supporting  responsibly  sourced or certiﬁed  natural gas Promoting industry  best practices and  new technologies to  increase emission  reductions Replacing old  steel and  cast-iron pipes   with new durable  pipes Implementing  new technologies  to detect leaks  more quickly  Reducing gas  being vented to"
"the atmosphere  Upgrading  compressor  stations and  exploring  lower-emission fuel options Utilizing carbon  oﬀsets to  balance any  remaining  emissions Gas Extraction, Production, Gathering, Storage and Transportation Industry, Homes and Businesses Upstream Supplier emissions Internal Operations DTE emissions Downstream Customer-use emissions Increasing energy eﬃciency targets   Oﬀering voluntary  program - Natural Gas  Balance - including  carbon oﬀsets Supporting increased  carbon oﬀsets"
"through  Michigan’s natural  lands Incorporating  lower- emission  alternatives like  renewable natural  gas into our system  supply Net Zero GHGs by  2050 Net Zero GHGs by  2050 Reduce  GHGs 35% by  2040* DTE Gas carbon related plans are for carbon emission reductions from its gas utility operations. DTE's target is  net zero by 2050 and the interim reductions shown are based off our latest plans but are not set commitments. Gas CO2-e reductions  from internal operations 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%"
"65% by 2030 80% by 2040 25% by 2021  by 2050 Net  zero Natural Gas Balance  We are partnering with customers to balance their own carbon footprints through energy efficiency and  participation in Natural Gas Balance. This voluntary program offers customers a way to affordably address  greenhouse gas emissions from an average home’s natural gas usage by advancing the development of  renewable natural gas (RNG) in Michigan and investing in carbon offset projects in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula,"
"certified by the American Carbon Registry, which protects over 20,000 acres of mature trees that act as natural  carbon scrubbers.  Customers can balance between 25% and 100% of their greenhouse gas emissions from natural gas usage  (based on an average residential customer’s usage). Approximately 12,000 customers were enrolled in the  program in 2024.  > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Environmental 2024 DTE Sustainability Report    page 11 DTE helps make NFL Draft carbon"
"neutral In 2024, DTE worked with the National Football League and local tourism non-profit  Visit Detroit to help the NFL Draft in Detroit become carbon neutral. By leveraging DTE’s  voluntary renewable energy programs, the NFL created a more sustainable environment  for the hundreds of thousands who attended the draft, with additional positive impact  for the local community. Participation in DTE's MIGreenPower and Natural Gas Balance  programs offset the carbon footprint of the energy used by"
"the NFL for event production  and operation, food and beverage preparation and consumption, merchandise sales and  the air and ground transportation for NFL employees and vendors.  A cleaner and sustainable natural gas supply  DTE is an active member of ONE Future, a coalition of companies representing the  natural gas value chain focused on implementing innovative performance-based  approaches to managing methane emissions. The ONE Future methane intensity goal of  less than 1% across the"
"natural gas value chain by 2025 has been met by members for  seven consecutive years. These efforts are part of our drive to advance transparency  and consistency in methane intensity reporting and to encourage natural gas suppliers  to do the same. We are working with industry associations to encourage the use of the  Natural Gas Sustainability Initiative (NGSI) Methane Emissions Intensity Protocol to  standardize the reporting of methane emissions across the natural gas value chain.  Water"
"management Water stewardship starts with operating facilities and equipment in compliance with  governmental standards. We strive to exceed the standards that are incorporated into  facility-specific water permits by eliminating unnecessary use of water in facilities and  closely monitoring the quality of water discharge.   Fresh water is essential for non-contact cooling at our steam electric generating  plants. As we retire coal-fired power plants, less fresh surface water withdrawals will"
"occur. We’ve updated our water withdrawal goals to align with the accelerated carbon  reduction targets announced in our 2022 IRP. DTE Electric continues to reduce surface  water withdrawals for power generation. Through the retirements of coal-fired power  plants (e.g., Conners Creek, Harbor Beach, Trenton Channel, St. Clair and River Rouge  Power Plants) that used water for cooling, DTE has decreased water usage by 44%. As  we retire additional coal-fired power plants and commission less"
"water-intensive energy  sources (e.g., wind farms, solar projects and battery storage facilities), we project that  surface water withdrawals will continue to decrease.  2010 2020 2025 2030 2040 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0%                 40% by 2023 90% by 2032 >90% by 2040 65% by 2028 21% by the end of 2018 Water withdrawal reduction for DTE Electric Power Generation*  > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Environmental 2024 DTE Sustainability Report     page 12 Reducing waste"
"The largest of our waste streams is coal combustion residuals (CCR), which includes fly  ash, bottom ash and flue gas desulfurization (FGD) materials. Fly ash and bottom ash  are byproducts of the coal burned in power plants. Synthetic gypsum is a byproduct of  the FGD units that reduce sulfur dioxide emissions from coal-fired plants. These CCR  materials — ash and synthetic gypsum — are recycled to the greatest extent possible.  The portion of the CCR not recyclable is disposed of in state and"
"federally regulated  landfills and impoundments. DTE’s ash recycling rates have dropped starting in 2016 as  the company brought sorbent injection and activated carbon emission controls online  to meet the Mercury and Air Toxic Standards (MATS) rule. The presence of sorbents  and activated carbon in coal ash reduces its acceptability for beneficial reuse.   DTE operates two licensed landfills to dispose of non-recycled CCR. Each coal plant has  onsite facilities for managing CCR before it is"
"recycled or otherwise disposed. These  landfills operate in compliance with state and federal laws and are routinely inspected  by state and local regulatory agencies. DTE assesses the condition of its facilities and  equipment on a regular basis and conducts maintenance and repairs as necessary to  maintain structural integrity and operational performance. Through the retirement  of some coal-fired assets, the volume of coal ash generated has significantly reduced  since 2013 from over"
"1,000,000 tons generated in 2013 to approximately 470,000  tons generated in 2024, of which approximately 130,000 tons of coal ash were  recycled. Gypsum is used as a component in drywall manufacturing and as a beneficial  additive in agriculture. In 2024, DTE recycled 100% of the gypsum produced at its  power plants. DTE has continued to be a leader in the circular economy through our recycling of  coal combustion residuals, and the recycling of appliances, office products and other  obsolete"
"equipment through our partnership with Goodwill's Green Works. Recently,  we enhanced this commitment by partnering with NextCycle Michigan to help develop  the circular economy in Michigan to support growth in the recycling, composting and  materials management industry.   DTE performs audits of Treatment, Storage and Disposal Facility (TSDF) vendors  to ensure that waste generated by the company is managed in accordance with  environmental regulations for disposal of waste. The objective of"
"the vendor audit  program is to minimize DTE’s environmental liability related to the disposal of waste.  An environmental risk-screening matrix is used to determine the audit frequency for  vendors providing waste disposal or significant recycling services.   DTE supports recycling and waste reduction across all areas of our enterprise. One  area of focus has been transformer oil. In 2024, DTE provided nearly 55,000 gallons  of used transformer oil to Hydrodec in Canton, Ohio. This oil is then"
"re-refined by  Hydrodec to be sold again as product transformer oil, keeping it from becoming waste.  Additionally, DTE’s cafeteria services work to minimize food waste. The team uses a  tool called Waste Not to track how much food waste is generated per day and find  ways to improve. They also partner with FiltaFry to filter and care for frying oil instead  of disposing it and, when new oil is needed, it’s delivered in a refillable jug to reduce  what’s sent to landfills.  100%    of the gypsum"
"produced at its  power plants  recycled in 2024 > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Environmental 2024 DTE Sustainability Report     page 13 Biodiversity  Among the largest landowners in Michigan, DTE voluntarily maintains thousands of acres of land in its natural  state, thereby providing habitat for hundreds of species of birds, mammals, fish and insects. We also reclaim  previously disturbed land to create and manage habitats – including gardens – that feature beehives and"
"native  Michigan plants that benefit the monarch butterfly and other pollinators. We also manage about 150 acres to  support the biodiversity required for mitigation. The Trenton Channel Power Plant and the Fermi II Nuclear Power  Plant are both adjacent to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) and International Wildlife Refuge. DTE is  part of a cooperative management agreement with the Refuge covering more than 650 acres.   DTE’s properties are home to hundreds of species of wildlife,"
"some of which are endangered or threatened. Our  facilities are often located on land with abundant opportunities for wildlife, and we strive to attract and increase  wildlife populations at these sites. To this end, we have 30 sites certified under the Wildlife Habitat Council  (WHC), now known as Tandem Global, a nonprofit organization that helps companies manage their property for  the benefit of wildlife. We also host events like annual bald eagle tours at our Monroe Power Plant to ensure"
"the  public has the opportunity to personally experience the benefits of this work.   DTE recognizes that community is a necessary part of great environmental work. That’s why we are a founding  member of the Detroit Tree Partnership (DTP), a public-private cooperative with the goal of planting 75,000  trees in parts of the city where they are needed the most over five years. In 2024, the partnership reached the  milestone of 25,000 trees planted. To learn more about how we strive to promote a"
"positive impact on the environment through a culture that goes  above and beyond regulations, see our Biodiversity Plan.  25,000  trees planted > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Social 2024 DTE Sustainability Report         page 14 Social Customer affordability DTE is committed to providing our customers with safe, reliable, cleaner and affordable energy.  As part of that effort, the team is focused on doing everything in our power to keep bills affordable, while still"
"making the necessary investments towards improvements in energy generation and delivery our customers  expect and deserve. This includes investing at a pace that keeps bill increases below the rate of inflation and  delivering programs and services that meet the needs of our most vulnerable customers.  In fact, between 2021 and 2024, while average annual inflation in the U.S. was 4.95%, DTE invested nearly $12.5  billion into electric operations and residential customer bills grew just 2.5%."
"Meanwhile, the U.S. average electric  residential bill grew 18.6% over that same period, while the Great Lakes average bill grew 12.7%. DTE’s investments have contributed to significant electric reliability improvements for our customers, including  a nearly 70 percent improvement in time spent without power in 2024 compared to 2023. Improvements  like these have the potential to deliver the greatest benefit to our most vulnerable customers who may be  disproportionally impacted by the economic"
"costs of a power outage. Of course, any bill increase can cause concern for customers who are already financially stressed, which is why  DTE has a robust program to connect qualifying customers to energy assistance, helping them avoid service  interruptions. We also work closely with our federal, state and agency partners to get additional aid for those in  need. Over the last five years, we have helped customers access more than $660 million in energy assistance. In  the 2023-2024 fiscal year"
"alone, we connected customers to nearly $144 million in financial aid for their energy  bills.  For customers who qualify, we offer energy assistance programs that are focused on reducing customer energy  usage to an affordable percentage of their income, reducing pre-existing arrears, protecting customers against  bill volatility and directing customers to assistance in crisis situations. > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix >"
"Intro  Social 2024 DTE Sustainability Report       page 15 We also continue to work with customers having difficulty paying their bills through  payment plans and have expanded our income-qualified Energy Efficiency Assistance (EEA)  program to assist customers in making their homes more energy efficient and reducing their  energy bills. EEA pays 100% of the upgrades and implementation costs, which are delivered  through more than 35 nonprofit and community action agencies and has served more"
"than  55,000 customers since its inception.  We have taken our commitment to vulnerable customers a step further by advocating  for the recently passed Michigan Energy Assistance Program (MEAP) legislation that will  increase funding for energy assistance and reduce access barriers, opening the doors of  support to additional Michiganders in need. At the end of 2024, four bills were signed into  law at the state level allowing the MEAP fund to double in size over the next four years and  help"
"customers with a household income of not more than 60% of the state median income. Maintaining affordability for our customers also includes careful management of fuel costs  by both the DTE Electric and Gas teams. DTE Gas secures its natural gas supply up to three  years in advance before delivering it to homes and businesses, which protects customers  from sudden price spikes due to fluctuating supply and demand. DTE Electric protects  against price increases by securing long-term, low-cost"
"contracts for the fuel that DTE  uses in its power plants. Approximately 15% of our power comes from renewables, and DTE  has existing uranium fuel contracts to support safe Fermi 2 operations into 2028. And it’s  important to note that DTE does not mark up the cost of fuel used to generate electricity or  the natural gas that is delivered to the homes and businesses we serve.   DTE Gas has also taken steps to bring the benefits of affordable natural gas to more  Michigan homes, businesses and"
"local economies with a project funded by Michigan’s  bipartisan Low Carbon Infrastructure Enhancement and Development Grant program.  The new infrastructure, completed in 2024, stretches between the Mesick and Buckley  communities in Northern Michigan and is expanding access to natural gas for up to 1,000  homes and businesses, helping to significantly reduce their energy costs. The two school  districts serving the communities benefiting from this expansion are expected to save  $50,000"
"annually, based on the school’s actual propane usage and price per gallon it paid  compared to natural gas rates.   Human capital management Talent management DTE’s approach to talent is centered on fostering an organizational culture  of service, driven by an inclusive environment that values the unique  contributions of every individual. We seek out those who possess the high-demand skills and expertise – in  engineering, technology and skilled trades – that are vital to our industry, amid  a"
"shrinking and competitive labor market and the clean energy transition.  Energy companies across the United States, including DTE, are navigating a  historic shift in their workforce on this journey to net zero.  Through this transition, our quest to attract and retain talent aligns with the  transformation of our energy generation and distribution infrastructure to  deliver cleaner, more reliable power to our customers and communities. Be ne ﬁt s/ he al th  a nd  w el ln es s Co m pe ns at io n"
"C ul t ur e C o m p e ti ti v e n e s s Cl o si n g  t h e  s ki ll e d  tr a d e s  g a p M E A S U RI N G  S U C C E S S O p p o r t u n i t i e s Talent > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Social 2024 DTE Sustainability Report   page 16 DTE’s strategic talent management objectives include: •        Attracting and retaining the best people to bring  our purpose to life. •       Fostering an inclusive and merit-based culture. •              Creating a culture of service"
"excellence for internal  and external customers. •                Strengthening our safety and wellbeing culture  through training, technology and programs. •     Providing world-class leadership development and  technical training. •                Developing and implementing a competitive total  rewards strategy for employees. To ensure we are effective in achieving these strategic  objectives, we have established a comprehensive  governance structure that involves the Board of  Directors, CEO"
"and senior executive oversight of talent  decisions. Moreover, we have committees that ensure  our talent systems and initiatives are fair and inclusive.  Our approach to human capital management can be  categorized by the stages of our talent pipeline – from  raising career awareness to employee retention. Labor relations Approximately half of DTE’s workforce is represented  by unions. Our labor relations professionals partner  with business units and union leaders to build a  thriving culture,"
"proactively address changing business  conditions, resolve employee issues and support  collective bargaining negotiations. We operate in  compliance with the policies and regulations established  by the National Labor Relations Board, the statutes of  the National Labor Relations Act and the guidance of  the federal Department of Labor. Members of our Labor Management Committee,  comprised of union leadership and company senior  leaders, meet regularly to share opportunities to  improve our"
"company’s culture and systems for being  safe, caring, dependable and efficient in serving  customers, communities and each other – and then work  together to develop and implement solutions. These  types of meetings occur at all levels of leadership; open  and inclusive communication is key to our successful  partnership. As part of our ongoing commitment to safety,  business unit leaders, union officials and union safety  representatives participate in safety sessions geared  towards"
"identifying safety improvement opportunities  to work in collaboration with our union partners  through the Executive Safety Committee. Ensuring our talent competitiveness Impending retirements, skilled trades gaps and remote  working options have enhanced our focus on the  competitiveness of employee attraction and retention.  Our key areas of focus for our employees are: 1.  Best in industry health, safety and wellbeing  performance. 2.  Highly engaged employees and service excellence. 3."
"Inclusive and merit-based culture. 4.   Competitive and equitable compensation. For more in-depth information on our culture of health  and wellbeing, check out our Health and Wellbeing  Report. > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Social 2024 DTE Sustainability Report          page 17 DTE’s employee energy groups Energy Group Membership Employees living with disabilities and their allies Asian and Middle Eastern American employees and  their allies Employees with families and"
"their allies Members of the LGBTQ+ community and their allies  Black employees and their allies Members of the Latino and Hispanic community and  their allies         Young professional employees and their allies Employees who are military veterans and their allies    Female employees and their allies Employee Resource Groups, Business Resource Groups and  Governance Structure DTE’s nine Employee Resource Groups, which we call Energy Groups, are another  way we’re strengthening our culture of"
"inclusion. Our active and engaged Energy  Groups, with nearly 5,000 members in total, are open to all and help build a safe and  welcoming environment for people across our enterprise. Our Energy Groups offer  professional development, education and networking opportunities. They hold events  to build awareness and education, volunteer and support nonprofit organizations, and  mentor coworkers, young professionals and youth. Membership in Energy Groups and  participation in group activities are"
"open to all employees. Our 24 Business Resource Groups (BRGs) across our company bring our priorities to life  with a focus on removing barriers to hiring and retention. While Energy Groups bring  together employees across DTE, our BRGs form within their business unit teams to create  awareness through learning activities, communications, events, recruiting and hiring. 24 BRGs  across the  company 2,600   individual  members in  ERGs > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Social"
"2024 DTE Sustainability Report    page 18 Our People and Culture Priority Committee, comprised of the CEO and other senior  executives, provides strategic oversight of inclusion efforts and programming across  the company. Additionally, our Inclusion & Diversity Oversight Committee – a team of  key leaders from across the company, our nine Energy Groups and our 24 BRGs – drive  our strategic priorities forward. Promote workforce inclusion We will continue to have an inclusive, merit-based"
"culture at DTE. In our commitment to fostering an inclusive workplace, we launched culture surveys  in 2021 and 2024, achieving a 48% response rate on the latter. These surveys are  invaluable, revealing that 75% of employees feel a strong sense of belonging and 86%  are aware of mental health and emotional wellbeing resources offered by DTE. These  results underscore the positive impact of our initiatives on employee satisfaction and  morale. Our culture is embedded in our company’s operating"
"model, which includes our  aspiration, purpose, Service Keys and Leadership Principles. Specifically, inclusive  behaviors are incorporated into our Service Keys and Leadership Principles to ensure  we are inclusive in our everyday interactions with our team members, customers and  communities. We strive to develop a culture that values diverse perspectives and encourages open  communication so all employees can contribute their best efforts. These ideals are also foundational to how we develop,"
"recruit and retain employees,  and how we effectively serve millions of people from diverse backgrounds, cultures  and communities. To ensure our workforce understands the perspectives of the  communities we serve, we implement practices and programs designed to develop a  pipeline of talented candidates. We do this through: •   Collaborations with non-profit and job readiness organizations. •              Programs aimed at youth and young adults to help them develop skills and prepare  for"
"employment opportunities. •        Programs designed to eliminate barriers to employment for youth and adults  ensuring they have access to the resources they need. 75%    of employees feel  a strong sense of  belonging > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Social 2024 DTE Sustainability Report   page 19 Employee safety Safety committees connect the organization and involve a partnership between management and labor to ensure  all team members are aware of the latest safety"
"information. Safety committees review key performance indicators,  discuss recent incidents along with corrective actions, share learnings and extent of conditions and cascade changes  in safety protocols across the various business units. Our union partners are active participants and vital to our safety success. Union representatives co-chair safety  committees and are part of the teams that investigate safety incidents within the company and help develop strategy  and tactics. Safety"
"management At DTE, people’s safety and wellbeing remain our top priority. In 2024, we continued implementing and maturing our  Safety Energy Model. Through benchmarking, research, and culture assessments, the model is focused on tasks where  high energy is present and most likely to cause serious injuries – including high voltages, temperatures, elevations  and pressures. An important element of the model is a job aid called the Energy Wheel to help identify more hazards  on the job site before"
"beginning work, including high-energy hazards. Crews then put controls in place to keep people  safe if an unexpected release of high energy occurs.  Life Critical Councils, established through our Executive Safety Committee, are cross-functional groups of management  and field subject matter safety experts dedicated to managing the most hazardous work we face at DTE. This includes  lifting and supporting loads, trenching and excavating, electrical, vehicle safety and roadside protection. Pre-"
"job briefs focus on safety hazards Jobs or tasks that present a potential hazard require a documented discussion among everyone involved in the work  prior to beginning work. We call these discussions pre-job briefs (PJBs). During PJBs, participants identify risks and  hazards along with controls to eliminate or mitigate the hazards. Employees across the company received updated  training on PJBs in 2024. Maintaining a safety culture  All employees know they have the power – and the"
"responsibility – to stop work any time they feel safety may be  compromised for themselves or anyone around them. Employees who perform high-energy activities receive extra  training, and their work is evaluated through several field validations, including Assessments and Program Audits.  DTE targets compliance with regulatory requirements outlined by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration  (OSHA) as well as DTE safety protocols. Represented and non-represented employees conduct the"
"assessments and  interview colleagues performing the work. They share strengths with other organizations and identify gaps. A team  tracks these gaps and conducts follow-up effectiveness reviews to ensure gaps are closed and sustained. Company leaders also conduct safe worker observations at least once per week to verify that employees are following  safety procedures, to recognize people for working safely and to provide coaching if necessary. The observations are  Our union  partners  are"
"active  participants and  vital to our safety  success > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Social 2024 DTE Sustainability Report          page 20 structured to create an opportunity for employees to raise safety concerns and offer  suggestions as part of a two-way dialogue with their leaders. Throughout the year, all leaders conduct focused proactive safety discussions with  their team members on upcoming seasonal hazards, new procedures and other  safety information. They"
"also conduct reactive discussions as needed to share  lessons learned from incidents or other events. DTE is actively engaged in executing scientific research focused on the prevention  of serious injuries and fatalities. Late last year, DTE joined the Construction Safety  Research Alliance as research members. We are proud to have connected with a  community of industry leaders and academic experts who collaborate to create and  share new safety knowledge. Tracking safety performance DTE tracks"
"a system of metrics to gauge health and safety performance and  detect gaps. In support of our Safety Energy Model strategy, we are tracking  High-Energy Serious Injury or Fatality (HSIF) events, Potential Serious Injury or  Fatality (PSIF) events, and capacity events where direct controls enable everyone  to remain safe despite the release of high energy. We also continue to track OSHA  recordable injuries, DART rate (Days Away, Restrictions or Transfers, which indicate  the severity of an"
"injury), incidents requiring first aid treatment, near misses and  all vehicle accidents regardless of severity. Pipeline Safety Observations serve  as another safety tool to protect and improve our gas equipment and system  holistically. Our suppliers’ safety performance is also reviewed to assist in ensuring  that our business partners are working in a safe manner. To further emphasize  safety, all business units incorporate safety metrics into their performance goals.  Supply chain management"
"DTE’s supply chain is a vital part of our commitment to provide safe and reliable  energy for our customers. Our supply chain team ensures suppliers operate  safely, ethically and efficiently, while delivering high quality and low costs to our  customers. Supplier pre-qualification and risk management  All DTE suppliers must undergo a rigorous pre-qualification process before they  begin doing business with us. This ensures we are creating and maintaining a  high-quality, cost-competitive supply"
"chain we can count on.  Code of conduct  We value the business relationships we have with our suppliers and view them as  strategic business partners in our success. Our supplier code of conduct outlines the  values and principles that we expect our suppliers to share.  Supplier safety  Through our supplier safety program, we hold ourselves and our external partners  accountable for prioritizing safety above everything else. Our supplier safety  handbook details each supplier’s responsibility"
"for working safely at DTE, and their  safety performance is reviewed to ensure they are adhering to these expectations.  Supplier performance management  DTE is committed to reducing costs and driving continuous improvement by managing,  analyzing and measuring supplier performance. This practice, called Supplier  Performance Management (SPM), has saved hundreds of millions of dollars over the  past several years.  Fostering a more sustainable supply chain  DTE is a charter member of the"
"Sustainable Supply Chain Alliance. The Alliance is a  group of electric utilities and supplier affiliate members focused on developing a more  environmentally friendly supply chain. The group shares best practices and promotes  and develops sustainable solutions for businesses. The Sustainability Project (TSP) is  one of our largest Alliance initiatives. TSP is an online assessment that measures our  suppliers’ environmental sustainability performance. We encourage our suppliers to  use this"
"resource. In 2024, 150 of our top suppliers took the assessment.  > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Social 2024 DTE Sustainability Report     page 21 Our supplier diversity program benefits our company, our suppliers and the  communities we serve. Our spending with diverse suppliers has grown by more than  112% since 2016. In 2024, we spent $1.03 billion with diverse suppliers, achieving an  aspirational goal we set in 2020. A significant number of our diverse business"
"partners  are also local companies, and their growth creates jobs in the communities we serve.  Outreach, advocacy, mentoring and training enable us to achieve these goals and seek  out businesses to connect them with new growth opportunities, while also delivering  high quality and low costs for our customers.  Externally, our outreach is facilitated by involvement in groups like the Michigan  Minority Supplier Development Council and the Great Lakes Women’s Business Council  and by supporting"
"unique outreach opportunities. An example is our participation  in the BuyDetroit program. These events connect Detroit’s largest companies with  local suppliers looking for new opportunities. We also support a multi-year mentoring  program that leverages the expertise of our leaders. Select suppliers meet periodically  with our executives and supply chain professionals to review metrics and get advice.  The goal is to position suppliers to take advantage of new opportunities – either with  DTE"
"or with another corporation – and grow their business, while delivering value to  our customers.  For more information on supply chain, safety, quality, procurement or local and diverse  spending commitment, please see the Supply Chain Management overview.  Volunteerism  DTE strives to be more than just an energy provider. We want to be a resource for  the communities we serve and, together, become a transformational force for good  throughout the state. With this mindset, we are committed to"
"serving our communities  through employee volunteerism, philanthropic giving and targeted community  programs that address pressing, emerging and systemic needs. With the full support  and engagement of our leadership, our teams are actively out in the community,  making connections, listening to their needs and identifying opportunities where we  can actively provide support, ultimately strengthening the communities where we live  and serve.   From on-the-ground support – such as planting trees"
"or packing food to our skills-based  volunteerism programs, which pair employees with nonprofits in need of specific  support such as accounting aid or communications strategy – we work alongside our  community partners to better their organizations.   In 2024, more than 3,100 DTE employees volunteered over 60,000 hours, with 750+  nonprofit partners.    Supporting Michigan businesses  DTE’s partnerships with local businesses have more than doubled since 2016. Today,  67 cents of every dollar we"
"spend goes to a Michigan company. Spending with  local businesses enables us to avoid costly shipping charges and promotes strong  relationships with our suppliers, all of which helps us keep costs down so we can  deliver higher-quality, lower cost service for customers, while also supporting local  economies.  In 2024, we spent $3.3 billion with 1,808 Michigan businesses, continuing to exceed  the five-year $10 billion spending goal we set in 2019.   Supplier diversity We believe we’re at our"
"best when our supply chain reflects the diversity of our  customer base. Thanks to the high caliber of businesses in Michigan, we continue to  build relationships with local suppliers to drive the best results for our customers. A leader in supporting  local businesses Michigan  spending  1,808 With businesses in  92,000 JOBS   Created since 2010 74 counties 31 20   286  138 176 137 3.3 BILLION Spent with Michigan businesses in 2024 24 BILLION Invested with Michigan businesses since 2010 in"
"millions       (2024) 2.53 billion > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Governance 2024 DTE Sustainability Report         page 22 Governance Sustainability oversight  At DTE, the ultimate oversight of our company’s sustainability efforts – including enterprise risk management  – rests with the Board of Directors and permeates all levels of corporate executive leadership. As further  described in our proxy statement, the Public Policy and Responsibility Committee maintains"
"primary oversight  for sustainability matters generally, while the Audit, Organization & Compensation and Corporate Governance  Committees oversee those matters within their expertise, and the entire Board remains committed to and  updated on these matters regularly. Please see the 2025 proxy statement for additional information.   Board and employee ethics DTE’s corporate governance principles, responsibilities and internal structures reinforce our commitment  to operating in an ethical, legal,"
"environmentally sensitive and socially responsible manner, while creating  long-term value for our shareholders. DTE promotes an ethical culture among employees firmly grounded in  company values. This emphasis on ethics and values starts with our Board of Directors and executive leadership  and extends throughout the company. The DTE Energy Way Code of Conduct is available on our public website,  along with the Board of Directors Mission and Guidelines, Board Code of Business Conduct and Ethics"
"and  Categorical Standards for Director Independence. An Officer Code of Business Conduct also exists for executive  officers leading the company.  Our Ethics and Compliance Office promotes a culture of integrity, respect and compliance with laws and  regulations. All employees receive on-boarding and refresher training on our Code of Conduct and related  policies and procedures. We reinforce this culture through ongoing corporate-wide communications. Our employees can also access information"
"and guidance on ethical concerns through extensive web-based  resources on the company’s intranet. Resources include a downloadable overview, which details ways to learn  about ethical concerns at DTE, offers examples of questionable behavior and provides reporting options. Our Ethics in Action Program, administered by the Ethics and Compliance Office, promotes a “speak-up”  culture by providing mechanisms for employees, retirees, vendors, customers, shareholders and the public, to  >"
"Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Governance 2024 DTE Sustainability Report         page 23 report concerns and provide feedback. These concerns are investigated, and we take  appropriate action. Visit DTE's Code of Ethics for more details.  In addition to Ethics and Compliance programs, DTE and our union partners jointly  manage a grievance procedure defined by the collective bargaining agreements for  represented"
"employees. Additionally, we manage a dispute resolution process for  non-represented employees. Board of Directors The Board of Directors meets regularly to lead our company, creating and sustaining  long-term value for all stakeholders. With respect to sustainability, the Board of  Directors: •               Bears responsibility for oversight and risk management of plans to create  long-term value for shareholders, while ensuring our company operates in an  environmentally and socially"
"responsible manner. •       Oversees company management and assesses the effectiveness of management  policies and decisions, including management’s development and execution of our  company’s strategies. •             Reviews all major environmental initiatives. For additional information on DTE’s Board sub-committees, roles and responsibilities,  see the 2025 proxy statement and the Board committee charters. Our CEO, together with other senior leaders of the company, including the vice"
"president of Environmental Management and Safety, provide leadership and oversight  of our sustainability initiatives. Through leadership committees, DTE’s senior leader team: •     Executes our company’s sustainability strategies, including governance,  engagement and oversight initiatives, in consultation with the Board of Directors. •   Responds to input from investors, regulating bodies and other key stakeholders  regarding our sustainability strategies, initiatives and priorities.  •"
"Reviews internal sustainability data and disclosure documents in consultation with  relevant business units. •  Oversees our environmental compliance processes and carbon-reduction strategy. •        Ensures the progress of our inclusive, merit-based workplace culture. •         Mobilizes our employees, resources and partner organizations to strengthen and  promote prosperity in our communities. •        Reports the outcomes of our sustainability initiatives to the Board of Directors. •"
"Manages risks and opportunities associated with governance, environmental and  social initiatives. •    Receives compensation tied to the achievement of company goals (see the 2025  proxy statement for additional information on executive compensation). Risk governance The Board reviews and assesses reports from the Board committees and from  management relating to enterprise-level risks. Each Board committee is responsible  for overseeing and considering risk issues relating to their respective"
"committee  and reporting their assessments to the full Board at each regularly scheduled Board  meeting. When granting authority to management, reviewing strategies and receiving  management reports, the Board and committees consider, among other things, the risks  we face. Each Board committee reviews management’s assessment of risk for that committee’s  respective area of responsibility. As part of its oversight function, the Board addresses  any risk conflicts that may arise between the"
"committees and assigns any emerging  risks that do not fall within a specific committee’s responsibilities to the most relevant  committee. Additional risk governance details can be found in the 2025 proxy  statement. > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Governance 2024 DTE Sustainability Report   page 24 Political participation  As an energy company, we are affected each day by the decisions of  federal, state and local officials. Therefore, we seek to support candidates  who"
"will ensure energy policies meet the needs of our customers and our  communities. DTE has a strong, bipartisan track record of engaging in  the political process. Each year, we seek to support political leaders and  organizations that engage in constructive policy discussions and public  conversations. Under our corporate policy and to ensure transparency, we take proactive  steps to disclose political activities. See additional information on DTE’s  political participation website."
"Cybersecurity We work 24/7 to deliver safe, reliable energy to our customers. An  essential part of that effort is protecting our physical and digital  infrastructure. This commitment is supported by a dedicated cybersecurity  team and an employee education program that puts customer and  company information front and center. We have also built trusted  partnerships with companies, organizations and state and federal  agencies to share best practices, tools and threat information to keep  our"
"infrastructure and our customers’ information secure. This includes  partnering with others in our industry to form the Electricity Subsector  Coordinating Council (ESCC). The ESCC is the principal liaison between  the energy sector and the federal government in coordinating efforts to  prepare for – and respond to – threats to critical infrastructure.  Working closely with other interdependent infrastructure sectors like  telecommunications and transportation, DTE’s Chief Information Officer"
"oversees our cybersecurity program. Our Information Technology team  holds an annual meeting with members of the Michigan Public Service  Commission (MPSC) staff to provide a verbal report that addresses the  company’s cybersecurity and IT risk planning. We also communicate  cyber-attacks to the MPSC staff and the Michigan Fusion Center, which  is a collaboration between the Michigan State Police, FBI, Michigan  Department of Health and Human Services and other organizations.  To improve"
"cybersecurity,  the ESCC focuses on:  Preparing  for incidents Supporting  the deployment of  tools Improving  the flow of threat  information > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Appendix 2024 DTE Sustainability Report         page 25 Appendix Appendix      25 EEI Sustainability Template: Quantitative   Information      26 AGA Voluntary Sustainability Metrics:   Quantitative Information     30 Climate Goals        36 GRI index    38 Non-priority issues  53 Industry"
"Associations and National Advocacy   Organizations          54 Wildlife Habitat Council Certified Sites     55 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board   (SASB)   56 DTE Energy Greenhouse Gas Emissions   Summary        61 Task Force on Climate-related Financial   Disclosures (TCFD) Report  62 > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  EEI Sustainability Template 2024 DTE Sustainability Report     page 26 EEI Sustainability"
"Template: Quantitative Information Reference  Number Baseline 2005   Actual Last Year 2023  Actual Current Year 2024  Actual Comments, Links, Additional Information and Notes 1 Owned Nameplate Generation Capacity at end of year (MW) 1.1 Coal 7,733 4,100 4,100 1.2 Natural Gas 2,683 3,676 3682 1.3 Nuclear 1,154 1,141 1,141 1.4 Petroleum 666 256 240 1.5 Total Renewable Energy Resources 989 2,678 2,828 1.5.1 Biomass/Biogas 0 0 0 1.5.2 Geothermal  0 0 0 1.5.3 Hydroelectric 989 1,122 1,122 1.5.4 Solar"
"0 65 214 1.5.5 Wind 0 1,491 1,491 1.6 Other 0 0 0 2 Net Generation for the data year (MWh) 2.1 Coal  41,764,875 15,353,031 17,638,777 2.2 Natural Gas 1,033,086 11,752,524 12,554,429 2.3 Nuclear 8,753,555 9,355,991 8,255,810 2.4 Petroleum 7,800 -1,392 -882 2.5 Total Renewable Energy Resources 0 4,309,791 3,987,628 2.5.1 Biomass/Biogas ---- --- --- 2.5.2 Geothermal ---- --- --- 2.5.3 Hydroelectric ---- 226,547 0 Beginning in 2024, an adjustment was made to reflect 0 MWh of net  generation for"
"Hydroelectric.  Prior period volumes included output  from DTE Electric’s hydroelectric pumped storage facility; however,  this facility does not typically yield any positive net generation as  energy used to pump water during off-peak hours generally exceeds  the electricity generated during peak hours as the water is released. > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  EEI Sustainability Template 2024 DTE Sustainability Report   page 27 Reference  Number Baseline 2005   Actual"
"Last Year 2023  Actual Current Year 2024  Actual Comments, Links, Additional Information and Notes 2.5.4 Solar ---- 80,921 110,537 2.5.5 Wind ---- 4,002,323 3,877,091 2.6 Other ---- --- --- 3 Investing in the Future: Capital Expenditures, Energy Efficiency (EE) and Smart Meters 3.1 Total Annual Capital Expenditures (nominal dollars) $722,000,000  $3,100,000,000  $3,700,000,000  3.2 Incremental Annual Electricity Savings from EE Measures (MWh) N/A 957,898 918,741 3.3 Incremental Annual Investment"
"in Electric EE Programs  (nominal dollars) N/A $178,916,906  $196,013,255  4 Retail Electric Customer Count (at end of year) 4.1 Commercial  126,706 214,218 215,077 4.2 Industrial 2,235 843 827 4.3 Residential 2,043,475 2,061,708 2,074,990 Emissions 5 GHG Emissions: Carbon Dioxide (CO2) and Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e) Note: The alternatives available below are intended to provide  flexibility in reporting 5.1 Owned Generation 5.1.1 Carbon Dioxide (CO2) 5.1.1.1 Total Owned Generation CO2"
"Emissions (MT) 38,434,095 20,859,364 22,359,227 5.1.1.2 Total Owned Generation CO2 Emissions Intensity   (MT/Net MWh)  0.7 0.5 0.5 CO2e was not considered in 2005. DTE does not provide a target  for CO2e. 5.1.2 Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e) CO2e was not considered in 2005. DTE does not provide a target for  CO2e. 5.1.2.1 Total Owned Generation CO2e Emissions (MT) N/A 20,989,955 22,496,863 5.1.2.2 Total Owned Generation CO2e Emissions Intensity   (MT/Net MWh)  N/A 0.5 0.5 5.2 Purchased Power"
"5.2.1 Carbon Dioxide (CO2) > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  EEI Sustainability Template 2024 DTE Sustainability Report         page 28 Reference  Number Baseline 2005   Actual Last Year 2023  Actual Current Year 2024  Actual Comments, Links, Additional Information and Notes 5.2.1.1 Total Purchased Generation CO2 Emissions (MT) 4,526,771 3,630,841 3,131,623 5.2.1.2 Total Purchased Generation CO2 Emissions Intensity (MT/ Net MWh)  0.7 0.6 0.4 CO2e was not considered in 2005."
"DTE does not provide a target  for CO2e. 5.2.2 Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e) CO2e was not considered in 2005. DTE does not provide a target  for CO2e. 5.2.2.1 Total Purchased Generation CO2e Emissions (MT) N/A 3,654,123 3,148,585 5.2.2.2 Total Purchased Generation CO2e Emissions Intensity (MT/ Net MWh)  N/A 0.6 0.4 5.3 Owned Generation + Purchased Power 5.3.1 Carbon Dioxide (CO2) 5.3.1.1 Total Owned and Purchased Generation CO2 Emissions (MT) 42,960,865 24,490,205 25,490,850 5.3.1.2 Total"
"Owned and Purchased Generation CO2 Emissions  Intensity  (MT/Net MWh) 0.7 0.5 0.5 5.3.2 Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e) 5.3.2.1 Total Owned and Purchased Generation CO2e Emissions  (MT) N/A 24,644,078 25,645,448 CO2e was not considered in 2005. DTE does not provide a target  for CO2e. 5.3.2.2 Total Owned and Purchased Generation CO2e Emissions  Intensity (MT/Net MWh) N/A 0.5 0.5 CO2e was not considered in 2005. DTE does not provide a target  for CO2e. 5.4 Non-Generation CO2e Emissions of Sulfur"
"Hexafluoride (SF6) 5.4.1 Total CO2e emissions of SF6 (lbs)  N/A N/A N/A Below threshold for reporting to EPA. 5.4.2 Leak rate of CO2e emissions of SF6 (lbs/Net MWh)  N/A N/A N/A Below threshold for reporting to EPA. 6 Nitrogen Oxide (NOx), Sulfur Dioxide (SO2), Mercury (Hg) 6.1 Generation basis for calculation Total  6.2 Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) 6.2.1 Total NOx Emissions (MT) 58,476 9,720 9,694 6.2.2 Total NOx Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh) 1.13E-03 2.38E-04 2.28E-04 6.3 Sulfur Dioxide (SO2),"
"Sulfur Dioxide (SO2), Mercury (Hg) 6.3.1 Total SO2 Emissions (MT) 194,201 14,997 15,056 > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  EEI Sustainability Template 2024 DTE Sustainability Report         page 29 Reference  Number Baseline 2005   Actual Last Year 2023  Actual Current Year 2024  Actual Comments, Links, Additional Information and Notes 6.3.2 Total SO2 Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh) 3.77E-03 3.68E-04 3.55E-04 6.4 Mercury (Hg) 6.4.1 Total Hg Emissions (kg)  726 29 25 2020"
"NOx emissions were 95% below 2005 emissions 6.4.2 Total Hg Emissions Intensity (kg/Net MWh) 1.41E-05 7.04E-07 5.82E-07 Resources 7 Human Resources 7.1 Total Number of Employees 11,360 10,098 9,619 This metric is for all of DTE Energy (not specifically the Electric Company). 7.2 Percentage of Women in Total Workforce 25% 28% 26% This metric is for all of DTE Energy (not specifically the Electric Company). 7.3 Percentage of Minorities in Total Workforce 27% 30% 29% This metric is for all of DTE"
"Energy (not specifically the Electric Company). 7.4 Total Number on Board of Directors/Trustees 13 12 12 This metric is for all of DTE Energy (not specifically the Electric Company). 7.5 Percentage of Women on Board of Directors/Trustees 15% 25% 33% This metric is for all of DTE Energy (not specifically the Electric Company). 7.6 Percentage of Minorities on Board of Directors/Trustees 23% 25% 33% This metric is for all of DTE Energy (not specifically the Electric Company). 7.7 Employee Safety"
"Metrics 7.7.1 Recordable Incident Rate N/A 0.59 0.70 This metric is for all of DTE Energy (not specifically the Electric Company). 7.7.2 Lost-time Case Rate N/A 0.20 0.20 This metric is for all of DTE Energy (not specifically the Electric Company). 7.7.3 Days Away, Restricted, and Transfer (DART) Rate N/A 0.46 0.42 This metric is for all of DTE Energy (not specifically the Electric Company). 7.7.4 Work-related Fatalities N/A 1 0 This metric is for all of DTE Energy (not specifically the Electric"
"Company). 8 Fresh Water Resources used in Thermal Power Generation Activities 8.1 Water Withdrawals - Consumptive (Millions of Gallons)  21,179 20,192 18,832 8.2 Water Withdrawals - Non-Consumptive (Millions of Gallons) 1,386,687 737,395 753,022 8.3 Water Withdrawals - Consumptive Rate   (Millions of Gallons/Net MWh) 4.11E-04 4.84E-04 4.84E-04 8.4 Water Withdrawals - Non-Consumptive Rate   (Millions of Gallons/Net MWh) 2.69E-02 1.81E-02 1.81E-02 9 Waste Products 9.1 Amount of Hazardous Waste"
"Manifested for Disposal (tons) --- 46 89 9.2 Percent of Coal Combustion Products Beneficially Used --- 62% 62% > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  AGA Voluntary Sustainability Metrics 2024 DTE Sustainability Report     page 30 AGA Voluntary Sustainability Metrics: Quantitative Information   Disclaimer: All information below is being provided on a voluntary basis, and as such, companies may elect to include or exclude any of the topics outlined below and customize the template"
"to their specific needs. The decision to include data for  historical and future years is at the discretion of each company and the specific years (e.g., historical baseline) should be chosen as appropriate for each company. © American Gas Association. All rights reserved.  Parent Company:               DTE Energy Operating Company(s):        DTE Gas Business Type(s):               Vertically Integrated State(s) of Operation:    Michigan Regulatory Environment:        Regulated  Note:"
"Data from operating companies is rolled up to the corporate level. Report Date:                 September 12th, 2025 Reference  Number Last Year   (2023) Current Year  (2024) Definitions Comments, Links, Additional  Information and Notes  Natural Gas Distribution  1 Methane Emissions And Mitigation from  Distribution Mains 1.1 Number of Gas Distribution Customers  1,331,932 1,342,761 1.2 Distribution Mains in Service  These metrics should include all local distribution companies  (LDCs) held by"
"the Parent Company that are above the LDC Facility  reporting threshold for EPA's 40 C.F.R. 98, Subpart W reporting rule. 1.2.1 Plastic (miles)  13,853 14,328 1.2.2 Cathodically Protected Steel- Bare & Coated  (miles)  5,197 5,187 1.2.3 Unprotected Steel- Bare & Coated (miles)  1,005 946 1.2.4 Cast Iron/Wrought Iron-without upgrades  (miles)  1,191 1,067 1.3 Plan/Commitment to Replace/Upgrade  Remaining Miles of Distribution Mains (#  years to complete)  These metrics should provide the number"
"of years remaining to take  out of service, replace or upgrade cathodically unprotected steel  mains, and cast iron/wrought iron mains, consistent with applicable  state utility commission authorizations.  DTE is scheduled to complete  the replacement/upgrade by  2035. 1.3.1 Unprotected Steel (Bare & Coated)  12 13 > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  AGA Voluntary Sustainability Metrics 2024 DTE Sustainability Report          page 31 Reference  Number Last Year   (2023)"
"Current Year  (2024) Definitions Comments, Links, Additional  Information and Notes  1.3.2 Cast Iron/Wrought Iron  12 13 2 Distribution CO₂e Fugitive Emissions 2.1 CO2e Fugitive Methane Emissions from Gas  Distribution Operations (metric tons)  327,225 306,300 Fugitive methane emissions (not CO2 combustion emissions) stated  as CO2e, as reported to EPA under 40 CFR 98, Subpart W, sections  98.236(q)(3)(ix)(C)and (D), 98.236(r)(1)(iv) and (v), and 98.236(r)(2) (v)(A) and (B). This metric should"
"include fugitive methane emissions  above the reporting threshold for all natural gas local distribution  companies (LDCs) held by the Parent Company that are above the  LDC Facility reporting threshold for EPA's 40 C.F.R. 98, Subpart W  reporting rule. 2.2 CH4 Fugitive Methane Emissions from Gas  Distribution Operations (metric tons)  13,089 12,252 INPUT VALUE (total mt CH4) as explained in definition above.  Subpart W input is CH4 (mt). 2.2.1 CH4 Fugitive Methane Emissions from Gas"
"Distribution Operations (MMSCF/year) 682 638 2.3 Annual Natural Gas Throughput from Gas  Distribution Operations (MSCF/year)  301,913,186 290,560,680 This metric provides gas throughput from distribution (quantity  of natural gas delivered to end users) reported under Subpart W,  40 C.F.R. 98.236(aa)(9)(iv), as reported on the Subpart W e-GRRT  integrated reporting form in the “Facility Overview” worksheet Excel  form, Quantity of natural gas delivered to end users (column 4).  2.3.1 Annual"
"Methane Gas Throughput from Gas  Distribution Operations (MMSCF/year)  281,534 270,512 2.4 Fugitive Methane Emissions Rate (MMSCF  of Methane Emissions per MMSCF of  Methane Throughput)  0.00108 0.001054 Natural Gas Transmission & Storage 1 Onshore Natural Gas Transmission  Compression Methane Emissions All methane leak sources per 98.232 (e) (1-8), (f)(1-8), and (m) are  included for Transmission and Storage. Combustion sources are  excluded. CO2 and N2O are excluded. Fugitive Methane emissions"
"as defined in 40 CFR 98 Sub W Section  232 (e) (1-8), CO2 and N2O emissions are excluded from this section. 1.1.1 Pneumatic Device Venting (metric tons/ year)  55 55 Value reported using calculation in 40 CFR 98 Sub W Section 236(b) (4) 1.1.2 Blowdown Vent Stacks (metric tons/year)  91 98 Value reported using calculation in 40 CFR 98 Sub W Section 236(i) (1)(iii) > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  AGA Voluntary Sustainability Metrics 2024 DTE Sustainability Report"
"page 32 Reference  Number Last Year   (2023) Current Year  (2024) Definitions Comments, Links, Additional  Information and Notes  1.1.3 Transmission Storage Tanks (metric tons/ years)  0 12 Value reported using calculation in 40 CFR 98 Sub W Section 236(k) (2)(v) 1.1.4 Flare Stack Emission (metric tons/year)  0 0 Value reported using calculation in 40 CFR 98 Sub W Section 236(n) (11) 1.1.5 Centrifugal Compressor Venting (metric  tons/year)  0 0 Value reported using calculation in 40 CFR 98 Sub W"
"Section 236(o) (2)(ii)(D)(2) 1.1.6 Reciprocating Compressor Venting (metric  ton/year)  400 618 Value reported using calculation in 40 CFR 98 Sub W Section 236(p) (2)(ii)(D)(2) 1.1.7 Equipment leaks from valves, connectors,  open ended lines, pressure relief valves, and  meters (metric tons/year)  76 74 Value reported using calculation in 40 CFR 98 Sub W Section 236(q) (2)(v) 1.1.8 Other Leaks (metric tons/year)  0 0 Value reported using calculation in 40 CFR 98 Sub W Section 236(q) (2)(v) 1.2"
"Total Transmission Compression Methane  Emissions (metric tons/year) 623 857 1.3 Total Transmission Compression Methane  Emissions (CO2e/year)  15,564 21,433 1.4 Total Transmission Compression Methane  Emissions (MSCF/year)  32,424 44,651 Density of Methane = 0.0192 kg/ft3 per 40 CFR Sub W EQ. W-36 2 Underground Natural Gas Storage Methane  Emissions  Fugitive Methane emissions as defined in 40 CFR 98 Sub W Section  232 (f) (1-8), CO2 and N2O emissions are excluded from this section. 2.1.1"
"Pneumatic Device Venting (metric tons/ year) 0 0 Value reported using calculation in 40 CFR 98 Sub W Section 236(b) (4) 2.1.2 Flare Stack Emission (metric tons/year)  0 0 Value reported using calculation in 40 CFR 98 Sub W Section 236(n) (11) 2.1.3 Centrifugal Compressor Venting (metric  tons/year)  0 0 Value reported using calculation in 40 CFR 98 Sub W Section 236(o) (2)(ii)(D)(2) 2.1.4 Reciprocating Compressor Venting (metric  ton/year)  0 0 Value reported using calculation in 40 CFR 98 Sub W"
"Section 236(p) (2)(ii)(D)(2) 2.1.5 Equipment leaks from valves, connectors,  open ended lines, pressure relief valves, and  meters (metric tons/year)  0 0 Value reported using calculation in 40 CFR 98 Sub W Section 236(q) (2)(v) > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  AGA Voluntary Sustainability Metrics 2024 DTE Sustainability Report    page 33 Reference  Number Last Year   (2023) Current Year  (2024) Definitions Comments, Links, Additional  Information and Notes  2.1.6 Other"
"Equipment Leaks (metric tons/year)  0 0 Value reported using calculation in 40 CFR 98 Sub W Section 236(q) (2)(v) 2.1.7 Equipment leaks from valves, connectors,  open ended lines, and pressure relief valves  associated with storage wellheads (metric  tons/year)  0 0 Value reported using calculation in 40 CFR 98 Sub W Section 236(q) (2)(v) 2.1.8 Other equipment leaks from components  associated with storage wellheads (metric  tons/years)  0 0 Value reported using calculation in 40 CFR 98 Sub W"
"Section 232(q) (2)(v) 2.2 Total Storage Compression Methane  Emissions (metric tons/years)  0 0 2.3 Total Storage Compression Methane  Emissions (CO2e/year)  0 0 2.4 Total Storage Compression Methane  Emission (MSCF/year) 0 0 Density of Methane = 0.0192 kg/ft3 per 40 CFR Sub W EQ. W-36 3 Onshore Natural Gas Transmission Pipeline  Blowdowns  Blowdown vent stacks for onshore transmission pipeline as defined  in 40 CFR 98 Sub W Section 232 (m), CO2 and N2O emissions are  excluded from this section."
"3.1 Transmission Pipeline Blowdown Vent  Stacks (metric tons/year) 163 320 Value reported using calculation in 40 CFR 98 Sub W Section 232(i) (3)(ii) 3.2 Transmission Pipeline Blowdown Vent  Stacks (CO2e/year)  4,075 8,000 3.3 Transmission Pipeline Blowdown Vent  Stacks (MSCF/year)  8,490 16,667 4 Other Non-Sub Emissions Data Additional sources required by ONE Future include dehydrator vents,  storage station venting transmission pipeline leaks, and storage tank  methane 4.1 Total Methane"
"Emissions from additional  sources not recognized by 40 CFR 98  Subpart W (metric tons/year)  5,910 6,161 4.2 Total Methane Emissions from additional  sources not recognized by 40 CFR 98  Subpart W (CO2e/year)  147,750 154,025 > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  AGA Voluntary Sustainability Metrics 2024 DTE Sustainability Report       page 34 Reference  Number Last Year   (2023) Current Year  (2024) Definitions Comments, Links, Additional  Information and Notes  4.3 Total"
"Methane Emissions from additional  sources not recognized by 40 CFR 98  Subpart W (MSCF/year)  307,813 320,885 5 Summary and Metrics 5.1 Total Transmission and Storage Methane  Emissions (MMSCF/year)  349 382 5.2 Annual Natural Gas Throughput from Gas  Transmission and Storage Operations  (MSCF/year)  849,672,890 1,091,058,000 EIA 176 throughput or other reference for other throughput selected 5.2.1 Annual Methane Gas Throughput from  Gas Transmission and Storage Operations  (MMSCF/year) "
"807,189 1,036,505 5.3 Fugitive Methane Emissions Rate (MMSCF  of Methane Emissions per MMSCF of  Methane Throughput)  0.00043 0.00037 Natural Gas Gathering & Boosting 1 Methane Emissions  1.1 Gathering and Boosting Pipelines, Blow  Down Volumes, and Emissions  1.1.1 Total Miles of Gathering Pipeline Operated  by gas utility (miles) 0 0 1.1.2 Volume of Gathering Pipeline Blow Down  Emissions (scf)  N/A N/A This metric is collected to support calculations under EPA 40 CFR  98, Subpart W. 1.1.3"
"Gathering Pipeline Blow-Down Emissions  outside storage and compression facilities  (metric tons CO2e)  N/A N/A 2 CO2e Combustion Emissions For Gathering  & Boosting Compression  2.1 CO2e Emissions for Gathering & Boosting  Compression Stations (metric tons)  N/A N/A CO2 combustion emissions as reported to EPA under 40 CFR 98,  Subpart C, as directed in Subpart W, 98.232(k).  3 CO2e Combustion Emissions for Gathering &  Boosting Compression  > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro"
"AGA Voluntary Sustainability Metrics 2024 DTE Sustainability Report    page 35 Reference  Number Last Year   (2023) Current Year  (2024) Definitions Comments, Links, Additional  Information and Notes  3.1 Emissions reported for all permitted sources  (minor or major)  N/A N/A The number of permitted sources for conventional emissions may  not be the same number of sources reporting under the EPA GHG  reporting rule.  Companies may wish to describe which, or how  many, sources are included in the"
"conventional pollutants data and  whether the CO2e data reported includes all of these sources. 3.1.1 NOx (metric tons per year)  N/A N/A 3.1.2 VOC (metric tons per year)  N/A N/A Human Resources  1.1 Total Number of Employees  10,098 9,619 1.2 Percentage of Women in Total Workforce 28% 26% 1.3 Percentage of Minorities in Total Workforce  30% 29% 2.1 Total Number on Board of Directors/ Trustees 12 12 2.2 Percentage of Women on Board of  Directors/Trustees  25% 33% 2.3 Percentage of Minorities on"
"Board of  Directors/Trustees  25% 33% 3 Employee Safety Metrics 3.1 Recordable Incident Rate  0.59 0.7 3.2 Lost- Time Case Rate  0.2 0.2 3.3 Days Away, restricted, and Transfer (DART)  Rate  0.5 0.4 3.4 Work-Related Fatalities  1 0 > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Climate Goals 2024 DTE Sustainability Report         page 36 Climate Goals Goal Description (short) Entity Topic Baseline  Year Current  Year Target  Value Target  Year Current  Value Progress To Target 2023"
"Interim  Emission  Reduction Goal Reduction in the carbon emissions  generated from stationary  equipment used in the production  of electricity delivered to DTE  Electric customers . DTE  Electric Scope  1 - Stationary  Combustion  Emissions 2005 2024 32% 2023 41% Achieved 2028 Interim  Emission  Reduction Goal Reduction in the carbon emissions  generated from stationary  equipment used in the production  of electricity delivered to DTE  Electric customers . DTE  Electric Scope  1 - Stationary"
"Combustion  Emissions 2005 2024 65% 2028 41% 24% remaining to achieve goal 2032 Interim  Emission  Reduction Goal Reduction in the carbon emissions  generated from stationary  equipment used in the production  of electricity delivered to DTE  Electric customers . DTE  Electric Scope  1 - Stationary  Combustion  Emissions 2005 2024 85% 2032 41% 44% remaining to achieve goal 2040 Interim  Emission  Reduction Goal Reduction in the carbon emissions  generated from stationary  equipment used in the"
"production  of electricity delivered to DTE  Electric customers . DTE  Electric Scope  1 - Stationary  Combustion  Emissions 2005 2024 90% 2040 41% 49% remaining to achieve goal 2050 Emission  Reduction Goal -  DTE Electric Net zero carbon emissions of  electricity delivered to DTE Electric  customers. DTE  Electric Scope  1 - Stationary  Combustion  Emissions 2005 2024 Net  Zero 2050 41% 59% remaining to achieve goal 2050 Natural  Gas Procurement  Emissions Goal Net zero carbon emissions for"
"natural gas procured by DTE Gas. DTE  Gas Scope 3 -  Upstream 2005 2024 Net  Zero 2050 - DTE Gas expects to achieve this goal by  encouraging transparent and consistent  reporting of methane emissions intensity  (e.g. via ONE Future), working to source gas  with lower methane intensity and pursuing  programs that promote a cleaner natural  gas product such as EPA's Natural Gas STAR  program. DTE gas also aims to continue its  Clean Vision Natural Gas Balance program  which provides customers the"
"option to use  renewable natural gas. > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Climate Goals 2024 DTE Sustainability Report   page 37 Goal Description (short) Entity Topic Baseline  Year Current  Year Target  Value Target  Year Current  Value Progress To Target 2050 Emission  Reduction Goal -  DTE Gas Net zero carbon emissions (fugitive  and combustion) from DTE Gas  operations. DTE  Gas Scope  1 - Stationary  Combustion  and Fugitive  Emissions 2005 2024 Net  Zero 2050 - DTE Gas"
"has been reducing emissions in our  internal local distribution company (LDC) by  replacing aging steel and cast-iron pipe with  durable plastic pipe across the service territory.  DTE Gas is implementing new technologies  to upgrade compressor station components,  detect and repair leaks more quickly, and to  reduce gas being vented to the atmosphere  during pipeline and compressor station  maintenance activities. 2040 Emission  Reduction from  Combustion  of Natural Gas  Combustion  by DTE Gas"
"Customers 35% reduction in carbon emissions  from the combustion of natural gas  by DTE Gas customers. DTE  Gas Scope 3 -  Downstream 2005 2024 35% 2040 - DTE launched its voluntary customer Natural  Gas Balance program in 2021 that provides  residential and small commercial customers  the option of addressing up to 100 percent of  their combustion emissions through forestry  offsets and renewable natural gas (RNG).  More than 5,300 customers have enrolled in  the program. DTE's energy waste"
"reduction  offerings also help customers reduce their  natural gas consumption. DTE sustained its  natural gas annual energy savings goal of 1.05  percent in 2024. In 2024, 117,661 metric tons  of CO2 emissions were avoided as a result  of 2,110 MMcf of DTE Gas customer savings.  DTE Gas is also exploring opportunities to  incorporate more renewable natural gas into  the distribution system as well as advanced  fuel technologies such a hydrogen blending.  We are working to develop a GHG"
"accounting  method that will demonstrate progress on our  customer end-use goal and will provide more  information as that is developed. Sources (URL): DTE Energy - Net Zero Carbon Emissions by 2050   IRP_Executive_Summary.pdf  Achieving our CleanVision and Improving Reliability Notes:  1. Additional information on the DTE Electric and DTE Gas aspirational emissions goals listed above  can be found in our sustainability report > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  GRI index"
"2024 DTE Sustainability Report       page 38 GRI index STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD GRI 2 General Disclosures GRI 2-1 Organizational details a. DTE Energy Company  b. See DTE Energy's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2024, pages 6-7.  c. Detroit, Michigan, United States  d. United States and Ontario, Canada GRI 2-2 Entities included in the organization’s  sustainability reporting Entities in DTE Energy's consolidated financial statements or equivalent"
"documents are generally covered in this GRI report and DTE  Energy's Form 10-K.  See DTE Energy's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2024.  DTE Energy's Consolidated Financial  Statements are on pages 56-62. GRI 2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point Annual Reporting  Calendar year 2024   https://empoweringmichigan.com/dte-impact/ GRI 2-4 Restatements of information There are no restatements of information in DTE Energy's report covering 2024.  GRI 2-5 External"
"assurance The data contained herein has not been verified or otherwise assured by an independent third party.  Please see About This Report for more  information. GRI 2-6 Activities, value chain and other business  relationships See general business and properties disclosures within DTE Energy's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2024, pages 6-7.  For  a description of DTE Electric operations, see pages 7-10 of the same document.  For a description of DTE Gas operations, see pages"
"10-12  of the same document.  In addition to utility operations in Michigan, the DTE Energy portfolio includes non-utility operations focused on  renewable natural gas projects and providing custom energy solutions to industrial, commercial, and institutional customers, and energy  marketing and trading operations.  For more information, please see respective webpages for DTE Vantage, Energy Trading, Citizens Gas  Fuel, and MERC.  For a description of DTE Energy's supply chain, please see Supply"
"Chain section within this report and our Supply Chain  webpage. GRI 2-7 Employees  DTE Energy's workforce in 2024 totaled approximately 9,496 employees including students and temporary workers, with unions  representing 50% of the workforce. All DTE Energy employees work in the United States, primarily in Michigan.  Permanent and Temporary Female Male Regular  2,489 7,007 Temporary  50 64 Full-time and part- time by gender Female Male Full-time and part- time by gender Female Male Full-time"
"regular  2,478 7,004 Part-time regular 11 3 > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  GRI index 2024 DTE Sustainability Report      page 39 STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD GRI 2-8 Workers who are not employees Total contractor and consultant headcount: 1,156 GRI 2-9 Governance structure and composition The DTE Energy governance structure consists of a board of directors and committees of the board of directors. The full Board of Directors,  along with the"
"Organization and Compensation Committee, and the Public Policy and Responsibility Committee are responsible for decision- making and oversight of the management organization's impacts on the economy, environment and people. Information on DTE Energy's  governance structure, committees, bylaws, and other governance resources is located on the Corporate Governance page of DTE Energy's  public website and in DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement, beginning on page 8.  GRI 2-10 Nomination and selection"
"of the highest  governance body See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement under Election of Directors and Vacancies on page 17. GRI 2-11 Chair of the highest governance body See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement under Election of the Chairman and CEO; Lead Independent Director on page 19. GRI 2-12 Role of the highest governance body in  overseeing the management of impacts See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement under Sustainability Commitment starting on page 4, Board of Directors Risk Oversight"
"Functions  starting on page 23, Corporate Governance Committee starting page 21, Organization and Compensation Committee on page 22, and Public  Policy and Responsibility Committee on page 23. GRI 2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing  impacts See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement under Board Of Directors Risk Oversight Functions on page 23, and Board Committee Descriptions,  beginning on page 21. GRI 2-14 Role of the highest governance body in  sustainability reporting See DTE Energy's"
"2025 Proxy Statement under Public Policy and Responsibility Committee on page 23. GRI 2-15 Conflicts of interest See DTE Energy's Corporate Governance page, under Code of Ethics.  GRI 2-16 Communication of critical concerns See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement under Communications with the Board; on page 20.  GRI 2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance  body See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement under Election of Directors on page 8.  Also, refer to the Board Mission and"
"Responsibilities on the  DTE Energy Governance website.  GRI 2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest  governance body See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement under Assessment of Board and Committee Performance; on page 18. GRI 2-19 Remuneration policies See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement. For Board see Board of Directors Compensation on page 24 and for Executives see Executive  Compensation on page 37. GRI 2-20 Process to determine remuneration See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement."
"For Board see Board of Directors Compensation on page 24 and for Executives see Executive  Compensation on page 37 and Proposal 3 - Advisory Proposal - Nonbinding Vote to Approve Executive Compensation on page 33 and  Proposal 4 - Approval of Long-Term Incentive Planon page 34. See also Independent Review of Compensation Program on page 40. At the  2025 annual meeting, shareholders supported an advisory vote on executive compensation with 97.1% of those voting in favor. See the full  results in"
"DTE Energy's Form 8-K filed on May 14, 2025. GRI 2-21 Annual total compensation ratio See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement under CEO Pay Ratio on page 61. Information on annual remuneration change is not tracked or  reported. GRI 2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy Refer to letter from Joi Harris, CEO  GRI 2-23 Policy commitments See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement, page 1. Learn more about DTE Energy's purpose, values and Code of Conduct in the DTE Energy  Way Code of Conduct"
"and our Corporate Governance webpage. > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  GRI index 2024 DTE Sustainability Report    page 40 STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD GRI 2-24 Embedding policy commitments  See our DTE Code of Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct, and from our Environmental Policies.  GRI 2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts See  DTE's Code of Conduct, DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement, and DTE Energy's 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec."
"31, 2024. GRI 2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising  concerns DTE Energy promotes an ethical culture among employees firmly grounded in company values. This emphasis on ethics and values starts  with DTE Energy's board of directors, its executive leadership, and extends throughout the company. The DTE Energy Code of Conduct  is available on DTE Energy's public website, along with the Board of Directors Mission and Guidelines, Board Codes and Policies, and  Categorical Standards for"
"Director Independence. An Officer Code of Business Conduct also exists for executive officers leading the  company.    Led by an independent Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer, DTE Energy's Ethics and Compliance Office promotes a culture of integrity,  respect and compliance with laws and regulations and provides training and communication to all employees for guidance and  reinforcement of DTE's policies. Learn more about DTE Energy’s Board And Employee Ethics.     See DTE Energy’s Board And"
"Employee Ethics. GRI 2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations See GRI 307-1   GRI 2-28 Membership associations DTE Energy belongs to a number of (501(c)(6) trade associations and chambers of commerce, some of which participate in the political  process. Support for these organizations is intended to further DTE’s public policy interests and business objectives.     Industry Associations and National Advocacy Organizations  GRI 2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement DTE conducted a"
"Sustainability Priority Assessment in 2021 which informed our programming, priorities and engagement. We also consult  with stakeholders on a regular basis to solicit their input and feedback. Some examples of this engagement include utilizing the Gallup  employee engagement survey, implementing a Net Promoter Score measurement system to evaluate customer satisfaction, and annual  community partners meetings. GRI 2-30 Collective bargaining agreements 4,777 excludes temps/interns    See DTE"
"Energy’s Labor relations GRI 3-1 Process to determine material topics This report is built around DTE Energy’s material aspects and topics that have a direct or indirect impact on the company’s ability to create,  preserve or erode economic, environmental and social value for DTE Energy, its stakeholders and society at large. DTE Energy completed  its most recent Sustainability Priority (materiality) Assessment in 2021 to understand the priorities, and changing needs and expectations,  of"
"stakeholders and business within 25 sustainability priorities. Stakeholder feedback on priorities was identified through 10 stakeholder  interviews and survey responses from 234 stakeholders. Internal feedback from 36 employees informed the business priorities. In  determining the content for the 2024 Sustainability Report, DTE Energy applied the principles laid out in the Global Reporting Initiative  (GRI) Standards. Issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board, the GRI Standards are a"
"voluntary global framework, intended for use  by organizations to report about their impacts on the economy, the environment and society. GRI 3-2 List of material topics See the 2021 Sustainability Priority Assessment GRI 3-3  (Cont.) Management of material topics (Cont.) Actual and potential impacts of DTE’s sustainability priority topics guide the company in setting strategic plans for our business.  The  company’s goals and commitments, and how we track progress on these commitments, are"
"guided by these priorities and are discussed in  this sustainability report. (Cont.) > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  GRI index 2024 DTE Sustainability Report     page 41 STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD GRI 3-3 Management of material topics  In addition to actions to manage the priority issues discussed in this report, we discuss management of material topics in other disclosures,  including:    See DTE Energy's Aspiration and Priorities in the DTE"
"Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement, page 1.  See DTE Energy's purpose, values and Code of Conduct in the DTE Energy Way Code of Conduct and our Corporate Governance webpage  DTE Energy’s 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2024  GRI 200 Economic  GRI 201 Economic Performance  GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and  distributed  Direct economic value generated (revenues), economic value distributed (operating costs, employee wages and benefits, payments to  providers of capital, etc.), and"
"economic value retained (direct economic value generated less economic value distributed) can be found in  DTE Energy's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2024. GRI 201-2 Financial implications and risks and  opportunities due to climate change  See the Risk Factors section of DTE Energy's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2024, pages 18-24. GRI 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other  retirement plans  See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,"
"Retirement Benefits and Trusteed Assets, of DTE Energy's Form 10-K for the fiscal  year ended December 31, 2024, pages 125-135. GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts  GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services  supported See the Environment Section of this report  See DTE's IRP   See DTE Energy's 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2024 , page 30 GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts DTE Energy is committed to the communities it serves statewide and works to make all of"
"Michigan a better place to live, work and play.  DTE Energy’s efforts to foster stronger and more prosperous communities includes: • Corporate volunteerism, which provides direct support to local nonprofits and organizational capacity building through skills-based  volunteerism. See the volunteerism section of this report  • Intentionally supporting and developing Michigan-based and diverse businesses, particularly women and minority-owned businesses.  See the Supply Chain Management section of"
"this report. • Creating workforce development programming, fostering skill-building and career pathways for local communities, that enhances access  to good jobs for all. See the Human Capital Management section of this report.  • Offering programs and assistance for low-income customers, including distributing energy assistance, providing low-income energy  efficiency options. In December 2024, the Michigan Legislature passed legislation that reformed the Michigan Energy Assistance  Program"
"(MEAP), doubling the amount of assistance funding from $50 million to $100 million by 2029 and expanding eligibility from  150% of the Federal Poverty Level up to 200% of the Federal Poverty Level (which will provide additional eligibility to over 250,000  DTE households). This success is the culmination of years of collaborative efforts from the DTE team, dozens of community partners  and faith-based leaders, and State agencies. To learn more about what DTE Energy is doing to be a force for"
"growth and prosperity, visit  DTEImpact.com GRI 204 Procurement Practices  GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers  (1) Dollar spend on Michigan suppliers: $ 3375M  (2) Dollar spend on Michigan suppliers as a percentage of total procurement: 68%  See the Supply Chain section of this report  > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  GRI index 2024 DTE Sustainability Report        page 42 STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD GRI 207 Tax GRI 207-1"
"Approach to tax DTE Energy has a formal tax policy requiring compliance with all federal, state and local tax laws.  The policy requires that all tax plans and  strategies be approved and implemented only if they are aligned with the overall corporate tax strategy.  The Vice President and Chief Tax  Officer is responsible for overseeing compliance with this formal tax policy.  For a description of DTE Energy's overall tax position, see DTE  Energy's 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2024,"
"Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Income Taxes. GRI 300 Environmental See the Environment Section of this report.  GRI 301 Materials  GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume  Materials/ Fuels Units  2024 Coal Tons  9,530,502 Natural Gas Mcf 98,529,396 Blast furnace gas  Mcf 0 Coke oven gas  Mcf 0 No. 2 oil  Gallons 4,406,675 No. 6 oil  Gallons 0 High sulfur oil  Gallons 0 GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials used 0 gallons of No. 6 fuel oil GRI 302 Energy  GRI 302-1  Energy"
"consumption within the organization  1.22 million MWh GRI 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization  Energy Consumption outside the organization is 0 MWhs.  DTE Energy does not measure energy consumption outside of the organization.  DTE’s relevant Scope 3 emissions associated with value chain emissions are provided in the Greenhouse Gas Summary Table. GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption  Data for 2024 is not available GRI 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products  and"
"services  See DTE Energy's 2024 Energy Waste Reduction Report GRI 303 Water and Effluents DTE Energy strives to eliminate the unnecessary use of water in its facilities and to improve the quality of water discharges. Water  stewardship starts with operating facilities and equipment in a manner that complies with or exceeds governmental standards and protects  employees, customers, and surrounding communities. DTE employs practical land-management and conservation techniques to protect and"
"conserve water resources at facilities and properties.  DTE Electric's goal is to reduce water withdrawal at our electric and nuclear generating facilities by 40% in 2023, and 90% by 2040. (Cont.) > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  GRI index 2024 DTE Sustainability Report          page 43 STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD Since 2005, DTE has reduced surface water withdrawals for power generation by 44% by retiring coal-fired power plants (e.g., Connors"
"Creek, Harbor Beach, River Rouge, Trenton Channel, and St. Clair Power Plants) that utilize water for cooling, which accomplishes >100% of  the 2023 target. DTE projects that surface water withdrawals will continue to decrease in the future as more water efficient systems are  installed (e.g., Blue Water Energy Center) and coal-fired power plants are retired. These water goals are aligned with the company's goals  to reduce carbon emissions from electric generating facilities 32% from a 2005"
"baseline by 2023, 50% by 2030 and 80% by 2040. These  numbers represent current projections and are subject to change in the future.   See  DTE's Water Policy GRI 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource  DTE Energy's operations are mainly located in the Great Lakes area, where water is abundant. DTE Energy's  water sources are generally  withdrawn from the St. Lawrence water basin. The St. Lawrence water basin is a Low Risk for water quality and quantity according to the  WRI Water"
"Risk Atlas. City water and groundwater are additional water sources for DTE operations. These freshwater withdrawals are measured through water metering or calculated based on pump rates and duration for annual water use  reporting for the state of Michigan. Many of the smaller volume water withdrawals may be monitored and measured for semi-annual and  annual reporting to the local municipalities. The withdrawals are in compliance with both (1) the state water withdrawal authorizations, and  (2)"
"NPDES permits that impose limits on our withdrawals, protective for the surface water biota. Majority of the water withdrawn, if not consumed for cooling or other general service use, is returned to the surface water where it  originated from. Prior to discharge, the water undergoes various treatment processes (e.g. sedimentation, chemical clarification, plain  clarification, oil/water separation). The quantity and quality of the discharged water is strictly monitored and in compliance with the"
"permits  issued by the state and local agencies. DTE Energy's sites are mainly located in catchments heavily impacted by historic industrial and  agricultural activity, such as: Saint Clair River, Rouge River, Detroit River, Raisin River, and western Lake Erie basin. Over the last decade,  western Lake Erie experiences annual harmful algal blooms, primarily driven by nutrient loading, particular phosphorous from agricultural  land.  These blooms can create dead zones, impact drinking water, and"
"affect human and animal health. EGLE, along with other Michigan  agencies, is working on a domestic action plan to reduce phosphorus loading into Lake Erie. To support this effort DTE eliminated to use of  water treatment additives that contain phosphorous in our treatment processes.   We’ve updated our water withdrawal goals to align with the accelerated carbon reduction targets announced in our 2022 Integrated  Resource Plan. As we retire additional coal-fired power plants that use once-"
"through water cooling systems and commission less water- intensive energy sources (e.g., wind farms, solar projects and battery storage facilities), we project that surface water withdrawals will  continue to decrease.  GRI 303-2 Management of water discharge-related  impacts DTE's water discharges are managed through National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permits when discharged to  surface waters of the state, or by POTW (Privately Own Treatment Works) Permits when discharged"
"to the city sewer. As part of the  permitting process the permit authority requires us to assess water quality parameters specific to our industry. Water pollutants are  identified and classified as part of the application process into two groups based on toxicity level (i.e., toxic pollutants and other pollutants).  The assessment of overall impact includes chronic/acute toxicity, persistence, and bioaccumulation as well as the profile of the receiving  waterbody. Permit requirements are"
"established in compliance with applicable local and federal rules like Steam Electric Power Generating  Effluent Guidelines Rule.  DTE strives to comply with all permit requirements in order to limit water discharge-related impacts. For example, at times, complying  with the thermal discharge limit at our biggest power plant requires curtailing plant load. The impact of limiting the load at Monroe, either  through derates or outages, in order to maintain the thermal discharge limit has a"
"financial impact on the company.  We must also comply with regulatory requirements related to accidental spills and other incidents related to release of hazardous materials  at our facilities. > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  GRI index 2024 DTE Sustainability Report          page 44 STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD GRI 303-3 Water withdrawal Surface water = 2,929,026 MLs  Ground water = 2,395 MLs  Third party water = 1,743 MLs GRI 303-4 Water"
"discharge  Surface water = 2,867,177 MLs  Ground water = 0 MLs  Third party water = 894 MLs GRI 303-5 Water consumption  71,547 MLs GRI 304 Biodiversity  See the Biodiversity section of this report GRI 304-1 Operations sights owned, leased, managed in, or  adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high  biodiversity value outside protected areas The Trenton Power Plant, located in Trenton, Michigan, and the Enrico Fermi Nuclear Power Plant, located in Newport, Michigan, are both  adjacent to the"
"U.S. Fish and Wildlife Services (USFWS) International Wildlife refuge. DTE Energy is part of a cooperative management  agreement with the Refuge for a total of 656 acres. This property is owned by DTE Energy and managed by USFWS. Part of the refuge  property includes areas of high biodiversity including Great Lakes coastal wetlands, prairies and forested habitat. GRI 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and  services on biodiversity  DTE Energy performs due diligence evaluations on"
"real estate acquisitions or before major construction projects begin on existing  properties owned and/ or maintained by DTE Energy. These due diligence evaluations include reviews of potential impacts to threatened  and endangered species and other protected natural features, as applicable. If threatened and endangered species or other regulated  features are detected at a site, DTE Energy conducts mitigation activities to avoid and or minimize the impacts in accordance with state or  federal"
"law. Activities that positively impact biodiversity, such as installation of pollinator gardens, native prairie plantings, birdhouses, or  bat houses are captured in reports that are submitted to the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC), a nonprofit organization that helps companies  manage their property for the benefit of wildlife. See Wildlife Habitat Council list in the Appendix of this report.  GRI 304-3 Habitat protected or restored  DTE Energy takes care of the land, water and living creatures"
"on its properties and beyond. Among the largest landowners in Michigan, DTE  Energy voluntarily maintains 8,000 acres of land in its natural state, thereby providing habitat for hundreds of species of birds, mammals,  fish and insects. The company also reclaims previously disturbed land to create and manage habitat featuring native Michigan plants, such  as gardens that benefit the monarch butterfly and other pollinators. The company also manages about 150 acres to support biodiversity  required"
"for mitigation Energy properties are home to hundreds of species of wildlife, some of which are endangered or threatened. DTE  Energy facilities are often located on properties with abundant opportunities for wildlife and DTE Energy is helping to attract and increase  wildlife populations at these sites. To this end, DTE Energy has 30 sites certified under the Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC), now Tandem  Global, a nonprofit organization that helps companies manage their property for the benefit"
"of wildlife. Tandem Global - Official Website GRI 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation  list species with habitat in areas affected by  operations There are currently four federally listed species that could potentially be impacted by DTE Energy's operations: Indiana bat, northern  long-eared bat, eastern massasauga rattle snake, and Karner blue butterfly. DTE has a long history of environmental stewardship and avoids  or minimizes potential impacts to sensitive species and"
"their habitat to the extent practicable. GRI 305 Emissions See the DTE GHG Summary Table, Climate Goals, and EEI/AGA Section of this report  Visit DTECleanEnergy.com GRI 305-1  Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions  24.2 Million MT CO2e GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions  78,000 MT CO2e GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions  11.1 Million MT CO2e GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity  0.00194 MT CO2e/$.  See the EEI/AGA Section of this report.  > Environment > Social > Governance >"
"Appendix > Intro  GRI index 2024 DTE Sustainability Report     page 45 STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions  See DTE Energy's EEI/ AGA template   See DTE Energy's Climate goals.   See DTE Energy's Greenhouse Gas Emissions Summary    For more information on the journey to Net Zero, visit DTECleanEnergy.com.  GRI 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Zero, DTE does not import, export or produce ODS. GRI 305-7 Nitrogen oxides"
"(NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and  other significant air emissions  a) SO2 : 92 %  b) NOx : 84 %  c) Hg : 97 %  d) PM : 87 % GRI 306 Waste See the  Environment Section of this report.  GRI 306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related  impacts  See the Reducing Waste section of this report.  GRI 306-2 Management of significant waste-related  impacts  See the Reducing Waste section of this report.  GRI 306-3  (Cont.) Waste generated (Cont.) Hazardous Waste  Tons Recycling  0 Recovery  2 Fuel"
"blending  0.3 Incineration  1.3 Landfill  52 Uncategorized 55 TOTAL  186 Other Wastes Tons Polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) 213 Asbestos  2,057 Universal Waste  77 Other Waste Diversions  Tons Composting  0 Waste to energy (incineration)  0 Used oil  1204 > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  GRI index 2024 DTE Sustainability Report          page 46 STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD GRI 306-3 Waste generated  Non-Hazardous Wastes (recycled)  Tons Gypsum"
"412,990 Fly and bottom ash  468,990 Copper  435 Lead  465 Aluminum  295 Steel/ ferrous- electric operations  1,705.00 Steel/ ferrous- gas operations  824 Non-ferrous/ wire bundles  160 Non-ferrous/ (e.g. transformers)  1,661 Miscellaneous metals 1,172 Meters- electric  35 Meters- gas  188 Tools & equipment 16 Outage materials (e.g. poles, wires, equipment from storms) 1,823 Plastic (HDPE)  0 Scrap electronics  0 Transformer oil  626 Cardboard  43 Wood (e.g. poles, pallets)  190 Paper  0 GRI"
"306-4  Waste diverted from disposal  See the table above, in GRI 306-3. GRI 306-5 Waste directed to disposal  See the table above, in GRI 306-3. GRI 307 Environmental Compliance  GRI 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and  regulations DTE Electric  DTE Gas DTE Vantage Total monetary value of fines in 2023 $40,490  $0  $56,640  Total number of violations in 2023 1 1 10 GRI 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment  See the DTE Supplier Resource Center. > Environment > Social > Governance >"
"Appendix > Intro  GRI index 2024 DTE Sustainability Report        page 47 STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using  environmental criteria 0%  See the DTE Supply chain management section of this report GRI 400 Social  GRI 401 Employment  See the Human Capital Management section of this report.  GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover  Metric Description  2023 Hiring and Turnover Data* Total number and rate of new"
"employee hires during the  reporting period, by age group Age of New  Hires* Number of  Hires Headcount   (total workers in  age group)  Percent of Total Workers in  Age Group Under 30 122 979 12% 30-50 160 5,450 3% Over 50 46 3,508 1% Total number and rate of new  employee hires during the  reporting period, by gender  Gender of  New Hires Number of  Hires Headcount   (total workers in  group) Percent of Total Workers in  Group, by Gender Female 39 2,793 1% Male 287 7,885 4% Total number and"
"rate of  employee turnover during the  reporting period, by age group Employee  Turnover:  Age Number of  Departures Headcount   (total workers in  age group)  Percent of Departures by  Age Group   (using beginning of 2022  headcount) Under 30 106 979 11% 30-50 266 5,450 5% Over 50 295 3,508 8% Total number and rate of  employee turnover during the  reporting period, by gender  Employee  Turnover:  Gender Number of  Departures Headcount   (total workers in  group) Percent of Departures in"
"Group, by Gender   (using beginning of 2022  headcount) Female 244 2,793 9% Male 423 7,885 6% *Includes affiliates / Non-Regulated; does not include students/ NonEEs  *Excludes temporary employees and students > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  GRI index 2024 DTE Sustainability Report         page 48 STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that  are not provided to temporary or part-time  employees DTE takes"
"great pride in offering employees and their family members equitable and   comprehensive benefits, including a variety of medical plans, parental leave and 401(k), among   others.     See DTE's additional benefits for full-time employees on the Benefits page.   See additional health and wellness benefits for all employees, in our 2024 Culture of Health & Wellbeing Annual Report. GRI 401-3 Parental leave  Total number of employees that were  entitled to parental leave The total number eligible is"
"201.  Based on those that reported a birth and requested leave.  Female Male Undisclosed Total number of employees that took  parental leave 45 119 0 Total number of employees that returned  to work in the reporting period after  parental leave ended 40 114 0 Total number of employees that returned  to work after parental leave ended that  were still employed 12 months after their  return to work 38 112 0 Return to work and retention rates of  employees that took parental leave 84% 94% 0% GRI"
"402 Labor/ Management Relations  See the Labor relations section of this report.  GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety  GRI 403-1 Occupational health and safety management  system  See the Safety section of this report.  GRI 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and  incident investigation  See the  Safety section of this report.   GRI 403-3 Occupational health services  See the  Safety section of this report.  GRI 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and  communication on"
"occupational health and  safety  See the  Safety section of this report.  GRI 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and  safety  See the  Safety section of this report.  > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  GRI index 2024 DTE Sustainability Report         page 49 STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD GRI 403-6 Promotion of worker health  See promotion of worker health in the 2024 Culture of Health & Wellbeing Report.  GRI 403-7 Prevention and"
"mitigation of occupational  health and safety impacts directly linked by  business relationships  See the  Safety section of this report.   GRI 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and  safety management system  All DTE Employees are covered by DTE's occupational health and safety management system. GRI 403-9 Work-related injuries  2024 OSHA recordable incident  0.70 DART  0.42 Fatalities  0 Injury Type  2024 Incidents Burns  0 Caught in, crushed, pinched 3 Cut by object  0 Exposure-"
"arc flash  1 Exposure- caustics, noxious, or toxic  1 Exposure- insects  2 Eye injury  0 Fall from elevation  1 Overexertion  31 Slip, trip, fall 6 Struck by/ against  16 GRI 404 Training and Education  See the Human Capital Management section of this report.  GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per  employee Type of Training  Number of Hours  Technical and compliance training 323,018 Average number of hours per employee (including full time and  contractors)  19.44 GRI 404-2 Programs"
"for upgrading employee skills and  transition assistance programs  See more about talent development in the Human Capital Management section of this report.  > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  GRI index 2024 DTE Sustainability Report          page 50 STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular  performance reviews and career development  reviews 100% of non-represented, regular employees have an opportunity to"
"participate in goal setting at the beginning of the year, mid-year  evaluations to review progress toward performance and development goals, and year-end reviews that focus on performance and  development. Depending upon when an employee is hired into the company, the full, annual review process may be pushed to the next  review period. Regular employees do not include temporary personnel, contractors, interns, students or seasonal staff.  GRI 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity  See our DTE"
"DE&I page. GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Male Female Under 30 years  of age  30-50 years  of age  Over 50 years  of age  Minority  percentage  DTE Energy Board  67% 33% 0% 0% 100% 33% Executives and senior leaders  69% 31% 0% 31% 69% 16% Managers and supervisors 74% 26% 2% 56% 41% 27% Individual contributors/  workers 72% 28% 12% 55% 34% 31% GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of  women to men  DTE Energy is committed to offering compensation that is"
"competitive, market driven, and internally equitable. Approximately half of DTE  Energy’s employees are represented by unions, where pay is uniformly determined through contracts. For non-represented employees, DTE  Energy’s human resources professionals establish pay ranges for each job classification and work with hiring leaders to make competitive  offers within the range to candidates, based on objective factors like years of experience and strength of skills relevant to the job. GRI 406"
"Non-Discrimination  GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective  actions taken  DTE Energy takes all reports of discrimination, harassment, and retaliation seriously. All reported concerns are fully investigated, and  appropriate action is taken in every situation where inappropriate behavior is substantiated.    See GRI 2-26 for DTE's policy on ethics and compliance.  GRI 407 Freedom of Association and Collective  Bargaining  See more about the DTE's commitment to employees in the"
"Labor relations section of this report.  GRI 413 Local Communities  GRI 413-1 Operations with local community engagement,  impact assessment, and development programs  100% of DTE Gas and DTE Electric operations perform local community engagement, impact assessment, and/ or development programs.  See DTE's impact website.  GRI 414 Supplier Social Assessment  GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social  criteria Supply Chain doesn't screen new suppliers based on any ESG criteria."
"Hence, we don't track this metric. However, the supplier diversity  team tracks diversity spend %, which was approximately 21% of total managed spend for 2024, including tier 2 spend. This was the first  time that DTE crossed the $1B mark for diversity spend. See the Safety Management and Supply Chain Management sections of this report.   > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  GRI index 2024 DTE Sustainability Report        page 51 STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO"
"STANDARD GRI 415 Public Policy  GRI 415-1 Political contributions  1482 individual DTE employees contributed to the PAC in 2024 DTE encourages our employees to become informed about the policy matters affecting the company and our customers, and to be involved  in the political process. DTE Energy facilitates this participation through the DTE Energy Political Action Committee (PAC). The DTE Energy  PAC is a non-partisan entity funded by voluntary contributions from eligible employees. The PAC"
"is guided by a Steering Committee  compromised of PAC members from across the company that are elected by all PAC members, and makes contributions to candidates  committees, political parties, and other political committees in accordance with all applicable federal and state law. The following criteria are used in evaluating requests for PAC contributions: 1. Public integrity of the candidate 2. Leadership position or committee service 3. Representation of a district that includes a DTE Energy"
"facility or service area 4. General support on issues important to the Company 5. Assessment of the appropriate level of support to be provided See the Political Participation section of this report and on the Political Participation page on DTE's Corporate Governance website GRI 416 Customer Health Safety  GRI 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of  product and service categories  DTE's gas and electric operations are continuously being monitored for health and safety"
"improvements. See the Safety section of this  report.  GRI 418 Customer Privacy  See the Cybersecurity section of this report.  GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of  customer privacy and losses of customer data  See DTE Energy's Form 10-K, Item 1C. Cybersecurity on pages 24-25. Standard # Standard Description  Sector  Specific Electric Utilities Sector Supplement  GRI EU1 Installed capacity  12,519 MW GRI EU2 Net energy output  42,435,762 MW GRI EU3 Number of residential,"
"industrial, institutional  and commercial customer accounts  For Electric customers, refer to EEI-4.1 (Commercial), EEI-4.2 (Industrial), and EEI-4.3 (Residential).  GRI EU4 Length of above and underground transmission  and distribution lines  See table detailing overhead (31,145 miles) and underground (14,708 miles) distribution miles on page 9 of DTE Energy's Form 10-K for the  fiscal year ending December 31, 2024. > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  GRI index 2024 DTE"
"Sustainability Report   page 52 STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION DTE RESPONSE TO STANDARD GRI EU5 Allocation of CO2e emissions allowances DTE Electric operates entirely within the state of Michigan and is not covered by a CO2e emissions trading program. GRI EU10 Planned capacity against projected electricity  demand over the long term, broken down by  energy source and regulatory regime DTE Electric Company’s planned capacity and projected electricity demand is discussed in the regulatory"
"proceedings related to the  company’s Integrated Resource Plan (IRP) that was submitted to the Michigan Public Service Commission (MPSC). The 2022 IRP describes  planned generation additions, energy efficiency and demand response to meet projected load demand in the short-term (2023-2027),  medium-term (2028-2032), and long-term (2033-2042). DTE Electric continues to refine the company’s generation planning strategy and is  required to submit its next IRP in 2026. For additional information, see"
"DTE's IRP settlement. GRI EU11 Average generation efficiency of thermal plants  by energy source and by regulatory regime  32.6% for Coal Generation 41.6% for Natural Gas Generation GRI EU12 Distribution line losses  The loss factor of 7.69% was approved by the Michigan Public Service Commission in its January 23, 2025 Order in Case No. U-21534. GRI EU13 Biodiversity of offset habitats compared to the  biodiversity of the affected areas  DTE Energy has been required by the Michigan Department of"
"Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy, to offset impacts to habitats,  specifically wetland impacts, due to construction activities. DTE's mitigation activities have included creation of wetland habitat as well  as placing large DTE owned parcels in conversation easements. The mitigation wetlands require at least 5 years of monitoring and need to  meet specific biodiversity targets (e.g. number of native wetland species). The largest of the mitigation wetland projects include the creation  of"
"more than a combined total 30 acres of wetland habitat and 40 acres of forested wetland (0.3 km2) in conservation easements. Where  temporary impacts are part of construction projects, DTE includes a diverse native seed mix to be used in order to restore habitat to its  original state and in most instances exceeds the original habitat quality.  GRI EU15 Percentage of employees eligible to retire in the  next 5-10 years  11% able to retire in 5 years 25% able to retire in 10 years GRI EU28 Power"
"outage frequency  The System Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI) measures the average number of power outages that a customer experienced in a  year. All-weather SAIFI: 1.25 Excluding major event days: 0.94 GRI EU29 Average power outage duration  The System Average Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI) measures the average number of minutes a customer was without power in a year.  All-weather SAIDI: 482.98 minutes  Excluding major event days: 159.17 minutes  The Customer Average"
"Interruption Duration Index (CAIDI) measures the average number of minutes a customer experiences interruption.  All-weather CAIDI: 387.07 minutes  Excluding major event days: 169.01 minutes > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Non-priority issues 2024 DTE Sustainability Report        page 53 Non-priority issues Not identified as a priority (material) issue for DTE Energy DTE Energy is not reporting on the following topics as they are not identified as priority (material)"
"sustainability issues for DTE. GRI 201-4 Financial assistance received from government  GRI 202-2 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage  GRI 205-1 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community  GRI 205-2 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption  GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and action taken  GRI 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices  GRI 207-2 Tax governance, control,"
"and risk management  GRI 207-3 Stakeholder engagement and management of concerns related to tax GRI 207-4 Country-by-country reporting  GRI 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials  GRI 302-3 Energy intensity  GRI 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) GRI 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes  GRI 403-10 Work-related ill health  GRI 407-1 Operations and suppliers in"
"which the right to freedom association and collective  bargaining may be at risk  GRI 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor  GRI 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory  labor  GRI 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures  GRI 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples  GRI 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact"
"assessments  GRI 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures  GRI 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human right clauses  or that underwent human rights screening  GRI 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken  GRI 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling GRI 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and  labeling  GRI 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance"
"concerning marketing communications  GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area  DTE Energy does not report this information at this time  GRI 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local  communities  GRI 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products  and services  > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Industry Associations and National Advocacy Organizations"
"2024 DTE Sustainability Report   page 54 Industry Associations and National Advocacy Organizations  Name of Organization  Stakeholder Group  American Biogas Council Industry Association  American Clean Power Industry Association  American Gas Association  Industry Association  American Energy Innovation  Council Industry Association  American Iron and Steel Institute  Industry Association  Ann Arbor Spark  Business Partner  Biomass Power Association  Industry Association  Business Leaders for"
"Michigan  Business Partner  California Biomass Energy Alliance Industry Association  Carbon Capture Coalition Industry Association  Center on Executive Compensation  Business Partner  Chamber of Commerce of the US Chamber of Commerce  Citizens Research Council  Business Partner  Clean Fuels Michigan Industry Association  Coalition to Keep Michigan Warm  Nonprofit  Coalition for Renewable Natural Gas Industry Association  Detroit Regional Chamber  Chamber of Commerce  Edison Electric Institute"
"Industry Association  Name of Organization  Stakeholder Group  Energy Storage Association  Industry Association  Human Resources Policy  Association  Business Partner  Interstate Natural Gas Association  of America  Industry Association  Local Chambers- Over 65 across  the state  Chamber of Commerce  Metro Detroit Visitors & Convention  Bureau Business Partner  Metropolitan Affairs Coalition  Nonprofit  Michigan Alliance for Business Business Partner  Michigan Association of Counties  Government"
"Michigan Association of Planning  Government  Michigan Chamber of Commerce  Chamber of Commerce  Michigan Economic Development  Corporation Econ Development  Michigan Electric and Gas  Association  Industry Association  Michigan Manufacturers  Association  Business Partner  Michigan Municipal Electric  Association  Industry Association  Michigan Municipal League  Government  Name of Organization  Stakeholder Group  Michigan Oil & Gas Association Industry Association  Michigan Retailers"
"Association  Business Partner  Michigan Township Association  Government  Midwest Energy Association Industry Association  National Association of  Manufacturers  Business Partner  North American Electric Reliability Industry Association  North American Energy Standards  Board Inc. Industry Association  Nuclear Energy Institute Industry Association  National Energy and Utility  Affordability Coalition  Nonprofit  Northern Michigan Chamber  Alliance  Chamber of Commerce  Nuclear Energy Institute"
"Industry Association  Nuclear Waste Strategy Coalition  Industry Association  Public Affairs Council  Business Partner  Small Business Association of  Michigan  Business Partner  The Right Place  Nonprofit  West Michigan Policy Forum  Business Partner  > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Wildlife Habitat Council Certified Sites 2024 DTE Sustainability Report          page 55 Wildlife Habitat Council Certified Sites GRI Standard 304-3 Location/site  Certified  Through"
"Application  Status  Certification  Status 1. Allen Road Service Center 12/31/2025 In Progress Certified 2. Ann Arbor Service Center 12/31/2026 In Progress Certified 3. Belle River Mills Compressor  Station 12/31/2025 In Progress Certified 4. Belle River Power Plant 12/31/2025 In Progress Certified  Silver 5. Big Rapids Service Center 12/31/2025 In Progress Certified 6. Cadillac Service Center 12/31/2025 In Progress Certified 7. Coolidge Service Center 12/31/2026 In Progress Certified 8."
"Citizen's Gas 12/31/2026 In Progress Certified 9. Detroit Headquarters Complex 12/31/2026 In Progress Certified 10. Escanaba Service Center 12/31/2025 In Progress Certified 11. Fermi 2 Power Plant 12/31/2025 In Progress Certified 12. Gaylord T&SO 12/31/2026 In Progress Certified 13. Grayling Service Center 12/31/2025 In Progress Certified 14. Greenwood Energy Center 12/31/2026 In Progress Certified  Silver 15. Huron Renewable Energy Center 12/31/2026 In Progress Certified Location/site"
"Certified  Through Application  Status  Certification  Status 16. Kalkaska T&SO 12/31/2026 In Progress Certified 17. Ludington Service Center 12/31/2025 In Progress Certified 18. Lynch Road Service Center 12/31/2025 In Progress Certified 19. Michigan Avenue Service Center 12/31/2026 In Progress Certified 20. Monroe Power Plant 12/31/2026 In Progress Certified  Silver 21. Mt Pleasant Service Center 12/31/2025 In Progress Certified 22. Muskegon Service Center 12/31/2025 In Progress Certified  23."
"Newport Service Center 12/31/2026 In Progress Certified 24. Petoskey Service Center 12/31/2025 In Progress Certified 25. Sault Ste Marie Service Center 12/31/2026 In Progress Certified 26. Tawas Service Center 12/31/2025 In Progress Certified 27. Technical Training Center 12/31/2025 In Progress Certified 28. Traverse City Gas Operations 12/31/2025 In Progress Certified 29. W.C. Taggart Compressor Station 12/31/2026 In Progress Certified 30. Western Wayne Service Center 12/31/2025 In Progress"
"Certified > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 2024 DTE Sustainability Report   page 56 Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Disclosures SASB Code Accounting Metric Response Greenhouse Gas  Emissions & Energy  Resource Planning IF-EU-110a.1 (1) Gross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage covered under,   (2) emissions-limiting regulations and   (3) emissions-reporting regulations  (1) See Greenhouse Gas Emissions"
"Summary   (2) 0% - DTE Electric, which operates only in Michigan, is not subject to broad-based  GHG emissions limiting regulations such as a mandatory GHG reduction requirement  or a cap and trade system.  (3) The majority of reported Scope 1 emissions from DTE Electric are subject to  EPA's mandatory GHG reporting rule.  Many of the emissions from small sources  (e.g. peaking units) that do not meet the 25,000 metric ton threshold for reporting  are required to be reported through the Michigan"
"Annual Emission Report system  (MIENVIRO) per the source Renewable Operating Permit.  The owned fleet vehicles  emissions are not subject to GHG reporting requirements.  IF-EU-110a.2 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions associated with power deliveries. 25,678,686 MT CO2e IF-EU-110a.3 Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to manage  Scope 1 emissions, emissions reduction targets and an analysis of  performance against those targets. Long-term and short-term strategies for meeting DTE"
"Electric's Scope 1 emission  reduction targets are described in the 2023 final IRP settlement accessible here: DTE  Energy - Net Zero Carbon Emissions by 2050 Air Quality  IF-EU-120a.1 Air emissions from the following pollutants:   (1) N0x (excluding N20), (1) 10,738 MT (2) SOx,  (2) 15,057 MT (3) particulate matter (PM10),  (3) 755 MT (4) lead (Pb), and  (4) 0.05 MT (5) mercury (Hg); percentage of each in or near areas of dense population  (5) 0.03 MT Water Management  IF-EU-140a.1 (1) Total"
"water withdrawn, (1) 2,921,776 Thousand Cubic Meters (2) total water consumed; percentage of each in regions with high or  extremely high baseline water stress. (2) 71,287 Thousand Cubic Meters IF-EU-140a.2 Number of incidents of non-compliance associated with water quantity  and/ or quality permits, standards, and regulations. 0 IF-EU-140a.3  (Cont.) Description of water-management risks and discussion of strategies and  practices to mitigate those risks. (Cont.) DTE facilities, like any"
"industrial facility, present the risk of release of polluting  materials into the water. Actions and procedures implemented to minimize adverse  effects include: 1) Implementation and maintenance of treatment systems using  sector-specific processes to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements, 2)  Periodic assessments of critical infrastructure and storage conditions, and continuous  upgrading as needed, and 3) Development and implementation of spill prevention,  preparedness and response."
"(Cont.) > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 2024 DTE Sustainability Report      page 57 Disclosures SASB Code Accounting Metric Response IF-EU-140a.3 Description of water-management risks and discussion of strategies and  practices to mitigate those risks.  The uncertainty of the regulatory environment around water management in our  sector creates risks to our company. For instance, the EPA has updated and revised  the"
"Effluent Limitations Guidelines (ELG) for steam electric power generation facilities  in 2015, 2020, and 2024. In each revision, EPA has re-established technology-based  standards applicable to wastewaters created at facilities with an electrical generating  unit. In each revision, the EPA also established new applicability dates. ELG Rules are  once again under consideration by the new administration.   In response to EPA regulations and in accordance with the Clean Water Act  section 316(b),"
"DTE Electric was required to examine alternatives for reducing  the environmental impacts of the cooling water intake structures at several of its  facilities. A final rule became effective in October 2014, which required studies to  be completed and submitted as part of the NPDES permit application process to  determine the type of technology needed to reduce impacts to fish. DTE Electric has  completed the required studies and submitted reports for all its generation plants.  Final compliance"
"for the installation of any required technology to reduce the impacts  of water intake structures will be determined by the state on a case by case, site  specific basis.  As part of the Monroe power plant NPDES permit, EGLE has added an option to  evaluate the thermal discharge of the facility as it relates to Clean Water Act section  316(a) regulations in order to establish an appropriate temperature discharge limit.  DTE Electric has submitted to EGLE a biological demonstration study plan to"
"evaluate  the thermal discharge impacts to an aquatic community. After approval of the plan  by EGLE and completion of field sampling, data will be processed and compiled into a  comprehensive report. At the present time, DTE Electric cannot predict the outcome  of this evaluation or financial impact. With a progressive increase in the intake  water temperatures, due to climate change, compliance with the currently proposed  discharge temperature limit starting December 2027 is at risk. Coal Ash"
"Management IF-EU-150a.1 Amount of combustion residuals (CCR) generated  881,980 tons and percentage recycled. 62% IF-EU-150a.3  (Cont.) Description of coal combustion products (CCPs) management policies  and procedures for active and inactive operations. (Cont.) The largest of our waste streams is coal combustion residuals (CCR), which includes  fly ash, bottom ash and flue gas desulfurization (FGD) materials. Fly ash and bottom  ash are byproducts of the coal burned in power plants. Synthetic"
"gypsum is a  byproduct of the FGD units that reduce sulfur dioxide emissions from coal-fired plants.  These CCR materials — ash and synthetic gypsum — are recycled to the greatest extent  possible. The portion of the CCR not recyclable is disposed of in state and federally  regulated landfills and impoundments. DTE’s ash recycling rates have dropped  starting in 2016 as the company brought sorbent injection and activated carbon  emission controls online to meet the Mercury and Air Toxic"
"Standards (MATS) rule.  The presence of sorbents and activated carbon in coal ash reduces its acceptability for  beneficial reuse.  Currently, DTE operates two licensed landfills to dispose of unrecycled CCR. Each coal  plant has on-site facilities for managing CCR before it is recycled or disposed. (Cont.) > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 2024 DTE Sustainability Report     page 58 Disclosures SASB Code Accounting Metric"
"Response IF-EU-150a.3  Description of coal combustion products (CCPs) management policies  and procedures for active and inactive operations.  These landfills operate in compliance with state and federal laws and are routinely  inspected by state and local regulatory agencies. DTE assesses the condition of its  facilities and equipment on a regular basis and conducts maintenance and repairs  as necessary to maintain structural integrity and operational performance. Through  the retirement of our"
"coal-fired assets, the volume of ash generated has significantly  reduced since 2013 from over 1,000,000 tons generated in 2013 to approximately  470,000 tons generated in 2024, of which approximately 130,000 tons were  recycled.  Gypsum is used as a component in drywall manufacturing and as a  beneficial additive in agriculture. In 2024, DTE recycled 100% of the gypsum produced  at its power plants.  Energy Affordability IF-EU-240a.1 Average retail electric rate for (USD/ kwh):  (1) residential"
"(2) commercial and  (3) industrial customers.   (1) $0.20  (2) $0.14   (3) $0.08  IF-EU-240a.3 Number of residential customer electric disconnections for non-payment,  percentage reconnected within 30 days (meter level). 190,173 disconnects (meter level) Reconnect data not reported because restores are  not directly correlated to disconnects for non-payment.  IF-EU-240a.4 Discussion of impact of external factors on customer affordability of  electricity, including the economic conditions of the"
"service territory. See our Managing Affordability section in this report. Workforce Health and  Safety IF-EU-320a.1 (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR),   (2) fatality rate and   (3) near miss frequency rate (NMFR)  (1) 0.75  (2) 0   (3) 1  End-Use Efficiency  and Demand IF-EU-420a.2 Percentage of electric load served by smart grid technology. See EEI Section 3 of this report. IF-EU-420a.3 Customer electricity savings from efficiency measures by market. 918,741 MW Nuclear Safety  &"
"Emergency  Management  IF-EU-540a.1 Total number of nuclear power units, broken down by U.S. Nuclear  Regulatory Commission (NRC) Action Matrix Column.  1 - See our Fermi page for more information IF-EU-540a.2 Description of efforts to manage nuclear safety and emergency  preparedness. See our Fermi page and our Emergency Preparedness booklet  Grid Resilience IF-EU-550a.1 Number of incidents of non-compliance with physical and/ or  cybersecurity standards or regulations. See GRI 418-1 in this"
"report. IF-EU-550a.2 (1) System Average Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI)  See GRI EU29 in this report. (2) System Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI) and  See GRI EU28 in this report. (3) Customer Average Interruption Duration Index (CAIDI), inclusive of  major event days  See GRI EU29 in this report. > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 2024 DTE Sustainability Report        page 59 Disclosures SASB Code Accounting"
"Metric Response Activity metrics - Electric IF-EU-000.A Number of:  (1) residential,  (2) commercial and  (3) industrial customers served. See EEI Section 4 in this report. IF-EU-000.B Total electricity delivered to (MWh):  (1) residential,  (2) commercial,  (3) industrial,  (4) all other retail customers, and  (5) wholesale customers.  44,420,000 per DTE Energy's Form 10-K for fiscal year ending December 31, 2024,  page 33. IF-EU-000.C Length of transmission and distribution lines (km). See"
"table detailing overhead (31,145 miles) and underground (14,708 miles)  distribution miles per DTE Energy's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31,  2024, page 9. IF-EU-000.D Total electricity generated, percentage by major energy source,  percentage in regulated markets. See EEI - section 2 in this report. IF-EU-000.E Total wholesale electricity purchased (MWh). 7,176,144 Activity metrics - Gas Energy Affordability  IF-GU-240a.1 Average retail gas rate for (USD. MMBtu):  (1)"
"residential,  (2) commercial,  (3) industrial customers and  (4) transportation services only.   (1) $9.02  (2) $8.51  (3) $7.63  (4) N/A IF-GU-240a.3 Number of residential customer gas disconnections for non-payment,  percentage reconnected within 30 days (meter level). 14,888 disconnects (meter level) Reconnect data not reported because restores are  not directly correlated to disconnects for non-payment. IF-GU-240a.4 Discussion of impact of external factors on customer affordability of gas,"
"including the economic conditions of the service territory.  See our Managing Affordability section in this report. End-Use Efficiency IF-GU-420a.2 Customer gas savings from efficiency measures by market (MMBtu) 2,109,896 Mcf Integrity of Gas  Delivery and  Infrastructure  IF-GU-540a.1 Number of  (1) reportable pipeline incidents,  (2) Corrective Action Orders (CAO) and  (3) Notices of Probable Violation (NOPV).    (1) 1  (2) 0  (3) 0 > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro"
"Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) 2024 DTE Sustainability Report         page 60 Disclosures SASB Code Accounting Metric Response IF-GU-540a.2 Percentage of distribution pipeline that is  (1) cast and/ or wrought iron and  (2) unprotected steel.   (1) 2.3%  (2) 4.3% IF-GU-540a.3 Percentage of gas  (1) transmission and  (2) distribution pipelines inspected.   (1) 80% of pipeline is inspected  (2) N/A IF-GU-540a.4 Description of efforts to manage the integrity of gas delivery"
"infrastructure, including risks related to safety and emissions. See the AGA section in this report. See the Gas Graphic in this report. Activity Metrics IF-GU-000.A Number of:  (1) residential,  (2) commercial and  (3) industrial customers served.    (1) 1,251,767  (2) 90,595  (3) 399 IF-GU-000.B Amount of natural gas delivered to:  (1) residential customers,  (2) commercial customers,  (3) industrial customers, and  (4) transferred to a third party. 809 Bcf per DTE Energy's Form 10-K for"
"fiscal year ending December 31, 2024, page 36. IF-GU-000.C Length of gas (km)  (1) transmission and  (2) distribution pipelines Approximately 20,500 miles of distribution mains per DTE Energy's Form 10-K for  fiscal year ending December 31, 2024, page 11. > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  DTE Energy Greenhouse Gas Emissions Summary 2024 DTE Sustainability Report        page 61 DTE Energy Greenhouse Gas Emissions Summary (metric tonnes CO2e, unless otherwise noted) DTE"
"Electric Company 2005 Baseline 2024 Scope 1 - Stationary Combustion from DTE Electric Company 38,010,000 22,530,000 Scope 1 -  Fleet Vehicle Emissions ------ 30,000 Scope 2 - Purchased Power T&D Line Loss on DTE System 253,000 78,000 Scope 3 - Purchased Power Emissions 3,396,000 3,904,000 DTE Gas Company Scope 1 - Combustion and Fugitive Emissions from DTE Gas Company ------ 737,000 Scope 1 -  Fleet Vehicle Emissions ------ 16,000 Scope 2 - Purchased Power Emissions ------ ------ Scope 3 -"
"Upstream DTE Gas Supplier Emissions* ------ 478,000 Scope 3 - Downstream DTE Gas Emissions ------ 6,679,000   DTE Non-Utility Operations Scope 1 - Stationary Combustion from DTE Vantage ------ 903,000 Standards, protocols and methodologies used to collect activity data and calculate emissions:  The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition)  US EPA Center for Corporate Climate Leadership: Direct Emissions from Stationary Combustion Sources  US EPA"
"Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule  US EPA Emissions & Generation Resource Integrated Database (eGRID)  US EPA GHG Emissions Factors Hub  Greenhouse Gas Emissions Accounting for Electric Companies: A Compendium of Technical Briefing Papers and Frequently Asked Questions. EPRI, Palo Alto, CA: 2021. 3002022366.  California Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Regulation > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report 2024"
"DTE Sustainability Report    page 62 Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report All Sector Financial Disclosures DISCLOSURE FOCUS AREA RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURE RESPONSE Governance  Disclose the  organization's  governance around  climate-related risks and  opportunities. (Cont.) Processes and frequency by which the  board and/or board committees (e.g.,  audit, risk etc.) are informed about  climate issues The Public Policy and Responsibility Committee maintains primary"
"oversight for ESG matters generally, while the Audit,  Organization & Compensation, and Corporate Governance Committees oversee those matters within their expertise, and the entire  Board remains committed to and updated on these matters regularly. The Board receives, reviews and assesses reports from the board committees and from management relating to enterprise-level  risks. Each board committee is responsible for overseeing and considering risk issues relating to their respective committee"
"and  reporting their assessments to the full Board at each regularly scheduled board meeting. When granting authority to management,  reviewing strategies and receiving management reports, the board and committees consider, among other things, the risks we face. Each board committee reviews management’s assessment of risk for that committee’s respective area of responsibility. As part of its  oversight function, the board addresses any risk conflicts that may arise between the committees and"
"assigns any emerging risks  that do not fall within a specific committee’s responsibilities to the most relevant committee.  Chief Executive Officer (CEO), who reports directly to the Board, is responsible for climate related issues, which include:  -Managing annual budgets for climate mitigation activities  -Managing major capital and/or operational expenditures related to low-carbon products or services (including  R&D) -Developing a climate transition plan  -Implementing a climate transition"
"plan  -Integrating climate-related issues into the strategy. Climate-related issues are reported to the board as important matters arise. See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement section titled Public Policy and Responsibility Committee beginning on page 23.  See the Governance section of this report. Describe how the board and/or board  committees consider climate-related  issues when reviewing and guiding  strategy, major plans of action, risk  management policies, annual budgets,  and business"
"plans as well as setting  the organization’s performance  objectives, monitoring implementation  and performance, and overseeing major  capital expenditures, acquisitions and  divestitures See the Governance section of this report  See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement Board of Directors Oversight Functions  beginning on page 23. See the DTE Board Committee Charters.  Describe how the board monitors and  oversees progress against goals and  targets for addressing climate-related  issues (Cont.)"
"With respect to sustainability, the Board of Directors:   - Oversees the risk management of plans to create long-term value for shareholders and ensures our company operates in an  environmentally and socially responsible manner   - Oversees company management and assesses the effectiveness of management's policies and decisions, including  management’s development and execution of our company’s strategies (Cont.) > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Task Force on Climate-"
"related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report 2024 DTE Sustainability Report     page 63 DISCLOSURE FOCUS AREA RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURE RESPONSE Disclose the  organization's  governance around  climate-related risks and  opportunities. Describe how the board monitors and  oversees progress against goals and  targets for addressing climate-related  issues  - Reviews all major environmental initiatives  - Oversees major capital expenditures  - Reviews and guides strategy  - Oversees and guides the"
"development of a transition plan  - Monitors progress towards corporate targets  - Oversees and guides public policy engagement See Governance section of this report See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement Describe the  management's role in  assessing and managing  climate-related risks and  opportunities.  Describe how the organization has  assigned climate-related responsibilities  to management-level positions or  committees; and, if so, whether such  management positions or committees  report"
"to the board or a committee  of the board and whether those  responsibilities include assessing and/or  managing climate-related issues See Governance section of this report See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement Associated organizational structure(s) See Governance section of this report See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement Processes by which management is  informed about climate-related issues See Governance section of this report See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement Describe how management"
"(through  specific positions and/or management  committees) monitors climate-related  issues See Governance section of this report See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement Strategy  Describe the  climate-related risks  and opportunities  the organization has  identified over the short,  medium and long term.  (Cont.) Relevant short, medium, and long-term  horizons, taking into consideration the  useful life of the organization's assets or  infrastructure  Short-term: 0 to 5 years - Aligned with"
"annual planning cycles and shorter-term targets to reach performance goals.   Medium-term: 5 to 20 years - Generally aligned with the Company's Integrated Resource Plan (IRP) timeframe and other regulatory  submittals and disclosures required by the Michigan Public Service Commission.   Long-term: 20 to 30 years, Aligned with DTE Energy's goal to achieve net zero carbon emissions by 2050 See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement    See DTE Energy's 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2024"
"Specific climate-related issues for  each time horizon (short, medium, and  long term) that could have a material  financial impact on the organization Short-term: technology, transitioning to lower emissions technology, negative perceptions of the company's approach to addressing climate  change, severe weather events, deviations in normal temperatures impacting consumer demand, changing water levels   Medium-term: emerging regulation, mandates on regulation of existing products and services,"
"severe weather events, changing water levels.   Long-term: emerging regulation, mandates on regulation of existing products and services, severe weather events, changing water levels See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement    See DTE Energy's 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2024    See the Environment section of this report > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report 2024 DTE Sustainability Report       page 64"
"DISCLOSURE FOCUS AREA RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURE RESPONSE Describe the  climate-related risks  and opportunities  the organization has  identified over the short,  medium and long term.  (Cont.)  Process(es) used to determine which  risks and opportunities could have  a material financial impact on the  organization The Board receives, reviews and assesses reports from the board committees and from management relating to enterprise-level  risks. Each board committee is responsible for overseeing and"
"considering risk issues relating to their respective committee and  reporting their assessments to the full Board at each regularly scheduled board meeting. When granting authority to management,  reviewing strategies and receiving management reports, the board and committees consider, among other things, the risks we face.  Each board committee reviews management’s assessment of risk for that committee’s respective area of responsibility. As part of its  oversight function, the board addresses"
"any risk conflicts that may arise between the committees and assigns any emerging risks  that do not fall within a specific committee’s responsibilities to the most relevant committee. Our chairman and CEO, together with other senior leaders of the company, including the vice president of Environmental  Management and Safety, provide leadership and oversight of our sustainability initiatives. Through enterprise priority meetings and/ or other leadership committees, DTE’s senior management team"
"is responsible for the following: -Gather and respond to input from investors, regulating bodies and other key stakeholders regarding our sustainability  strategies, initiatives and priorities -Review internal sustainability data and disclosure documents in consultation with relevant business units -Execute our company’s sustainability strategies, including governance, engagement and oversight initiatives, in consultation  with the Board of Directors -Manage our environmental compliance"
"processes and carbon-reduction strategy -Manage the progress of our diversity, equity and inclusion strategies -Mobilize our employees, resources and partner organizations to strengthen and promote prosperity in our communities -Report the outcomes of our sustainability initiatives to the Board of Directors -Manage risks and opportunities associated with environmental and social initiatives -Receive compensation tied to the achievement of company goals See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement"
"See DTE Energy's 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2024    See the Environment section of this report Organizational risks and opportunities  by sector and/or geography, as  appropriate. E.g. Transition Risks,  Physical Risks, Resource Efficiency,  Energy Source, Products and Services,  Markets, Resilience (Cont.) Increased frequency of severe storm events (e.g., severe thunderstorms, tornadoes, windstorms, floods and ice storms) can have  an impact on the electrical transmission and"
"distribution system infrastructure (e.g., poles and wires). DTE has a Storm Emergency  Plan that is put into action during storm emergencies and reviewed for improvement in after action reviews following each storm.  Decreases or increases in Great Lakes water levels due to changes in precipitation and evaporation patterns can have a negative  impact on the ability to utilize water for electric generation cooling purposes or in transporting fuel and other raw materials to our  plants via water"
"vessels. DTE Energy is taking action to encourage our natural gas suppliers to reduce their climate impacts. These actions include encouraging  our suppliers and peers to report using the Natural Gas Sustainability Initiative guidelines established by the Edison Electric Institute  and American Gas Association in an effort to enhance transparency and emissions reporting consistency throughout the natural  gas industry. As an active member of the NGSC, DTE is also working with our industry"
"partners to: 1. Benchmark the environmental  attributes of our natural gas supply portfolios, 2. Evaluate natural gas certification programs and methane measurement technologies,  3. Discuss regional policy solutions, 4. Engage Natural Gas producers and marketers to help address the challenges with transparency  throughout the gas purchasing process. In 2019, DTE surveyed our natural gas suppliers to identify their efforts to monitor and reduce  methane emissions and make more informed"
"purchasing decisions in the future. DTE is planning discussions with the MPSC about  incorporating supplier methane emissions levels into its gas procurement process. In March 2021, DTE Gas sent a letter to our natural  gas suppliers and pipelines encouraging them to begin reporting under the newly launched NGSI protocol for reporting of methane  intensity across the natural gas value chain. > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Task Force on Climate-related Financial"
"Disclosures (TCFD) Report 2024 DTE Sustainability Report       page 65 DISCLOSURE FOCUS AREA RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURE RESPONSE Describe the  climate-related risks  and opportunities  the organization has  identified over the short,  medium and long term.  (Cont.) Organizational risks and opportunities  by sector and/or geography, as  appropriate. E.g. Transition Risks,  Physical Risks, Resource Efficiency,  Energy Source, Products and Services,  Markets, Resilience (Cont.) DTE launched its"
"voluntary customer Natural Gas Balance program in 2021 that provides residential and small commercial customers  the option of addressing up to 100 percent of their combustion emissions through forestry offsets and renewable natural gas (RNG).  Approximately 12,000 customers have enrolled in the program through 2024. DTE's energy waste reduction offerings also help customers  reduce their natural gas consumption. DTE sustained its natural gas annual energy savings of 1.05 percent in 2024. In"
"2024, 117,661 metric  tons of CO2 emissions were avoided as a result of 2,110 MMcf of DTE Gas customer savings. DTE Gas is also exploring opportunities to  incorporate more renewable natural gas into the distribution system as well as advanced fuel technologies such a hydrogen blending.  Increased customer participation in voluntary green pricing programs is continuing. DTE Energy currently offers the following  voluntary green pricing programs to customers: 1) DTE's Clean Vision MIGreenPower"
"program helps customers reduce their carbon footprint and meet their personal or  business sustainability goals by attributing more of their electricity use to our wind and solar projects, beyond what is already  provided. Per a National Renewable Energy Laboratory 2021 survey, MIGreenPower is among the largest voluntary renewable  energy programs in the country. At the end of 2024, program subscribers included more than 95,000 residential customers,  more than 1600 businesses and 27 industrial"
"customers. In addition to the active subscribers in the program, MIGreenPower  also features 76 additional industrial customers with signed contracts.  On an annual basis, MIGreenPower customers have  enrolled more than 5 million megawatt hours of clean energy in the program. Also, in 2022  2) As part of DTE Energy's 2050 net zero commitment, DTE Gas launched its Clean Vision Natural Gas Balance program in  January 2021 that offers customers a way to manage their carbon footprint using carbon"
"offsets and renewable natural gas.  The program has approximately 12,000 residential and small business customers enrolled through 2024. In DTE Electric's 2022 IRP we committed to maximizing the achievable potential identified in the Michigan Statewide Potential  Study and in July of 2023, agreed to a 2% annual reduction in electric energy usage through energy efficiency through 2027.  Our efforts have already resulted in more than 1300 MW (equivalent to the capacity of one large power plant) of"
"reduced energy  demand since 2009 when energy efficiency requirements from Michigan Energy legislation went into effect. In addition to the  primary potential financial impact of reduced direct costs, DTE also receives a maximum financial performance incentive equal to  20% of EWR spend. Our demand-response (DR) program is one of the largest in the country in terms of Potential Peak Demand  Savings and is one of the largest in Michigan, with more than 830 MW of summer program capacity. The"
"Company also receives  a financial incentive of up to 15% of non-capitalized costs associated with DR spend. In addition, DTE Gas has committed to  maintaining its natural gas annual energy savings goal of 1.05 percent. Improving energy efficiency also results in lower bills for  customers. Energy efficiency efforts reduce our carbon emissions even further – meaning we need to generate less energy and  reduce the need for investment in new generation. The expansion of those programs also will"
"mean more jobs and business for the  Michigan firms that support them. DTE Electric has completed the issuance of approximately $2.6 billion of green bonds. In 2018, DTE Electric issued $525 million of  Green Bonds to finance new and existing Eligible Green Expenditures, which include renewable energy infrastructure and energy  efficiency initiatives. DTE Electric's Green Bond issuance was the first by an investment-grade energy company in Michigan and the  fifth nationwide by an investment-"
"grade energy company. To date, DTE Electric has issued a total of approximately $2.6 billion of  green bonds in 4 separate transactions. Green bond issuance supports the financing of green expenditures, where the proceeds are  earmarked for environmental or green projects or programs. DTE is Michigan’s leading producer of renewable energy, and we are committed to continued growth of our renewable energy  portfolio as part of our goal to achieve net zero carbon emissions. Since 2009, DTE has"
"invested $4.6 billion in renewable energy  infrastructure. We plan to invest an additional $4 billion over the next several years, with multiple new solar parks under  construction. As of the end of 2024, our portfolio of 20 wind parks and 34 solar parks throughout the state generated enough clean  energy to serve the needs of more than 750,000 customers. By 2042, we plan to have more than 18,000 megawatts of renewable  energy generation capacity – enough clean energy to power the equivalent of"
"approximately 5.9 million homes.  > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report 2024 DTE Sustainability Report     page 66 DISCLOSURE FOCUS AREA RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURE RESPONSE Describe the  climate-related risks  and opportunities  the organization has  identified over the short,  medium and long term.  Organizational risks and opportunities  by sector and/or geography, as  appropriate. E.g. Transition Risks,  Physical"
"Risks, Resource Efficiency,  Energy Source, Products and Services,  Markets, Resilience DTE Electric received approval for its first electric vehicle (EV) pilot, Charging Forward, in May 2019. The Charging Forward program  has since grown with two additional approved filings, Charging Forward eFleets and the Charging Forward Expansion in 2021 and  2022, respectively. The total approved budget for all Charging Forward programs is now approximately $46 million. The Company is  currently developing"
"a Transportation Electrification Plan (TEP) that will detail its EV strategy and investment through 2028 and be  published by year end. DTE Vantage (DTEV) has ownership interests in, and/or operates, twenty-four gas recovery sites in nine different states. The  sites recover methane from landfills and dairy farm businesses and convert the gas to generate electricity, replace fossil fuels in  industrial and manufacturing operations, or refine to pipeline-quality renewable natural gas, which can"
"then be used as vehicle fuel. Further information can be found in the Company's 10-K and Proxy Statement filings with the Unites States Securities and  Exchange Commission. Describe the impact of  climate-related risks  and opportunities  on the organization's  businesses. (Cont.) Affect of identified climate-related  issues on businesses, strategy, and  financial planning (Cont.). . DTE Energy is taking action to encourage our natural gas suppliers to reduce their climate impacts. These actions"
"include  encouraging our suppliers and peers to report using the Natural Gas Sustainability Initiative guidelines established by the Edison  Electric Institute and American Gas Association in an effort to enhance transparency and emissions reporting consistency  throughout the natural gas industry. As an active member of the NGSC, DTE is also working with our industry partners to:  1. Benchmark the environmental attributes of our natural gas supply portfolios,  2. Evaluate natural gas"
"certification programs and methane measurement technologies,  3. Discuss regional policy solutions,  4. Engage Natural Gas producers and marketers to help address the challenges with transparency throughout the gas  purchasing process. In 2019, DTE surveyed our natural gas suppliers to identify their efforts to monitor and reduce methane  emissions and make more informed purchasing decisions in the future.  DTE is planning discussions with the MPSC about incorporating supplier methane emissions"
"levels into its gas procurement process.  In March 2021, DTE Gas sent a letter to our natural gas suppliers and pipelines encouraging them to begin reporting under the  newly launched NGSI protocol for reporting of methane intensity across the natural gas value chain. Items that will affect the financial impact of DTE Electric's clean energy transition are described in the July 2023 approved IRP  settlement agreement. DTE Electric will be investing over $11 billion into the clean energy"
"transition over the next ten years while  reducing the future cost of the plan for the Company's customers by a projected $2.5 billion. DTE Electric will also be directing an  additional $110 million to support income-qualified home energy efficiency programs, customer affordability programs and access  to clean energy resources for the Company's most vulnerable customers. DTE Electric's capital investments over the 2023-2027  period are estimated at $9 billion for distribution infrastructure"
"which will strengthen the reliability and resiliency of the electric  distribution infrastructure.  The approach to developing the infrastructure upgrade costs is explained in a five year distribution operations investment and  maintenance plan to improve system reliability that DTE Electric filed with the MPSC in 2021 updated in September 2023. DTE  Electric is required to update this plan on a regular basis and will seek regulatory approval for capital expenditures consistent with  prior"
"ratemaking treatment. See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement    See DTE Energy's 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2024    See the Environment section of this report > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report 2024 DTE Sustainability Report       page 67 DISCLOSURE FOCUS AREA RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURE RESPONSE Describe the impact of  climate-related risks  and opportunities  on the organization's  businesses."
"(Cont.) Describe how climate-related issues  serve as an input to their financial  planning process, the time period(s)  used, and how these risks and  opportunities are prioritized.  DTE Energy is taking action to encourage our natural gas suppliers to reduce their climate impacts. These actions include  encouraging our suppliers and peers to report using the Natural Gas Sustainability Initiative guidelines established by the Edison  Electric Institute and American Gas Association in an effort"
"to enhance transparency and emissions reporting consistency  throughout the natural gas industry. As an active member of the NGSC, DTE is also working with our industry partners to:  1. Benchmark the environmental attributes of our natural gas supply portfolios,  2. Evaluate natural gas certification programs and methane measurement technologies,  3. Discuss regional policy solutions,  4. Engage Natural Gas producers and marketers to help address the challenges with transparency throughout the"
"gas  purchasing process.  In 2019, DTE surveyed our natural gas suppliers to identify their efforts to monitor and reduce methane emissions and make more  informed purchasing decisions in the future. DTE is planning discussions with the MPSC about incorporating supplier methane  emissions levels into its gas procurement process. In March 2021, DTE Gas sent a letter to our natural gas suppliers and pipelines  encouraging them to begin reporting under the newly launched NGSI protocol for reporting"
"of methane intensity across the natural  gas value chain. Items that will affect the financial impact of DTE Electric's clean energy transition are described in the July 2023 approved IRP  settlement agreement. DTE Electric will be investing over $11 billion into the clean energy transition over the next ten years while  reducing the future cost of the plan for the Company's customers by a projected $2.5 billion. DTE Electric will also be directing an  additional $110 million to support income-"
"qualified home energy efficiency programs, customer affordability programs and access  to clean energy resources for the Company's most vulnerable customers. DTE Electric's capital investments over the 2023-2027  period are estimated at $9 billion for distribution infrastructure which will strengthen the reliability and resiliency of the electric  distribution infrastructure. The approach to developing the infrastructure upgrade costs is explained in a five year distribution  operations"
"investment and maintenance plan to improve system reliability that DTE Electric filed with the MPSC in 2021 and   updated in September 2023. DTE Electric is required to update this plan on a regular basis and will seek regulatory approval for  capital expenditures consistent with prior ratemaking treatment. See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement    See DTE Energy's 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2024    See the Environment section of this report Impact of climate-related issues on"
"financial performance (e.g., revenues,  costs) and financial position (e.g., assets,  liabilities). (Cont.)    Items that will affect the financial impact of DTE Electric's clean energy transition are described in the July 2023 approved IRP  settlement agreement. DTE Electric will be investing over $11 billion into the clean energy transition over the next ten years while  reducing the future cost of the plan for the Company's customers by a projected $2.5 billion. DTE Electric will also be"
"directing an  additional $110 million to support income-qualified home energy efficiency programs, customer affordability programs and access to  clean energy resources for the Company's most vulnerable customers. DTE Electric's capital investments over the 2023-2027 period are estimated at $9 billion for distribution infrastructure which will  strengthen the reliability and resiliency of the electric distribution infrastructure. The approach to developing the infrastructure  upgrade costs is"
"explained in a five-year distribution operations investment and maintenance plan to improve system reliability that  DTE Electric filed with the MPSC in 2021 and updated in September 2023. DTE Electric is required to update this plan on a regular  basis and will seek regulatory approval for capital expenditures consistent with prior ratemaking treatment. Financial implications of Great Lakes water level changes could include capital costs to change cooling water intake structures and  equipment,"
"and costs to modify existing vessel unloading facilities. A longer shipping season on the Great Lakes due to warmer lake  temperatures could have beneficial financial impacts due to a longer season for shipping coal and other commodities transported by  ship. We cannot predict the financial impact of Great Lakes water level changes at this time. > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report 2024 DTE Sustainability Report"
"page 68 DISCLOSURE FOCUS AREA RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURE RESPONSE Describe the impact of  climate-related risks  and opportunities  on the organization's  businesses. (Cont.) Impact of climate-related issues on  financial performance (e.g., revenues,  costs) and financial position (e.g., assets,  liabilities).  The following risks have also been considered and could impact DTE Energy although the financial impacts cannot be predicted at  this time: environmental laws and liability may be costly, the"
"Renewable Portfolio Standard and energy waste reduction may affect  DTE Energy’s operations, federal and state fuel standards may affect DTE Energy's non-utility investments, weather significantly  affects operations, DTE Energy may not achieve the carbon emissions goals of its electric and gas utilities, emerging technologies  may have a material adverse effect. See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement    See DTE Energy's 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2024    See the Environment section"
"of this report Describe plans for transitioning to a  low-carbon economy, include GHG  emissions targets and specific activities  intended to reduce GHG emissions  in operations and value chain or to  otherwise support the transition (Cont.) Climate change is one of the defining issues of our era and DTE Electric is proposing to fundamentally transform the way we  generate power to reduce carbon emissions. In late 2022, DTE Electric issued our 2022 Clean Vision Integrated Resource Plan (IRP),"
"proposing to accelerate coal plant retirements and investing in cleaner Michigan-made energy – including wind and solar parks – to  accelerate reductions in carbon emissions. On July 12, 2023, we announced a historic settlement agreement with nearly two dozen  organizations from across Michigan further accelerating the retirement of coal and the deployment of renewable energy that we  laid out in the original IRP proposal. On July 26, 2023, the settlement was approved by the Michigan Public"
"Service Commission.  You can find more information, including the approved IRP at DTECleanEnergy.com. We’re also providing options for customers to  save money and energy through our energy efficiency and demand response programs and are offering residential and business  customers the opportunity to buy more clean energy to meet their own sustainability goals. In addition to wind and solar energy  sources, natural gas will remain a critical part of Michigan’s energy portfolio, as we work to"
"ensure generation keeps up with  demand. Our Clean Vision IRP calls for repurposing existing infrastructure at the Belle River Power Plant by converting its fuel  source from coal to natural gas. The Belle River plant will run during periods of high customer demand, such as in extreme summer  heat and when other supplies are unavailable. This economical approach will be a fraction of the cost of building a brand-new  natural gas plant and reduce emissions by 90-95% from current coal operations"
"at Belle River, while protecting electric reliability.  Converting Belle River to natural gas also allows DTE to add thousands of megawatts of renewables onto the grid in advance of  the first two units of Monroe Power Plant retiring in 2028, protecting customer affordability and system reliability. Our Blue Water  Energy Center (BWEC), located in East China Township, came online June 1, 2022, and is a state-of-the-art 1,150 MW natural gas  combined-cycle plant that provides 24/7, always"
"available, power generation. BWEC supported the retirement of three coal-fired  power plants without impacting system reliability and while sharply reducing carbon emissions. DTE Energy plans to reduce the carbon emissions from its gas utility operations by 65% by 2030 and 80% by 2040, and is  committed to a goal of net zero carbon emissions by 2050 from internal gas operations and gas suppliers. To achieve net zero,  DTE Gas is working to source gas with lower methane intensity, reduce"
"emissions through its main renewal and pipeline integrity  programs, and if necessary, use carbon offsets to address any remaining emissions. DTE Energy also aims to help DTE Gas  customers reduce their emissions by approximately 35% by 2040 by increasing energy efficiency, pursuing advanced technologies  such as hydrogen and carbon capture and sequestration, and through the Clean Vision Natural Gas Balance program which provides  customers the option to use carbon offsets and renewable natural"
"gas. DTE Energy also has the following goals: Net Zero GHGs by 2050: Upstream Supplier Emissions -Encouraging transparent and consistent reporting of methane emissions -Sourcing gas with lower methane intensities -Pursuing programs which promote a cleaner natural gas product -Utilizing carbon offsets to balance any remaining emissions Net Zero GHGs by 2050: Internal Operations (DTE Gas Emissions) -Replacing old steel and cast-iron pipes with new durable pipes (Cont) > Environment > Social >"
"Governance > Appendix > Intro  Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report 2024 DTE Sustainability Report   page 69 DISCLOSURE FOCUS AREA RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURE RESPONSE Describe the impact of  climate-related risks  and opportunities  on the organization's  businesses.  Describe plans for transitioning to a  low-carbon economy, include GHG  emissions targets and specific activities  intended to reduce GHG emissions  in operations and value chain or to  otherwise support"
"the transition -Implementing new technologies to detect leaks more quickly-Reducing gas being vented to the atmosphere -Upgrading compressor stations -Utilizing carbon offsets to balance any remaining emissions Reduce GHGs 35% by 2040: Downstream (Customer-use Emissions) -Offering voluntary program - Natural Gas Balance -Increasing energy efficiency targets -Incorporating renewable natural gas into our system supply -Pursuing advanced technologies such as hydrogen and carbon capture See DTE"
"Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement    See DTE Energy's 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2024  See the Environment and Supply Chain sections of this report Describe climate-related scenarios used  to inform the organization’s strategy  and financial planning.  Modeling is a critical component of our IRP planning and follows standards established by the MPSC. We also sought input from  stakeholders to inform modeling inputs and utilized publicly available resources, when available, for this"
"data for transparency.  Our process reviews current customer electricity needs and how they may evolve over time. It then looks at our existing resources  paired with new alternative resources to determine potential paths that meet those needs. Based on this analysis, we can see what  alternative resources, if needed, to add to the remaining existing resources to make sure we can meet our customers’ needs reliably  and cost-effectively.  Alternatives may include resources commercially available"
"today like solar and wind, as well as emerging resources that may be  expensive or not fully ready for deployment today, but may be available in five, 10 or 15 years. The results are then used to explore  various scenarios and sensitivities using modeling software and other analytical tools. Using this process, DTE Electric analyzed  more than 100 modeling runs consisting of different combinations of scenarios and sensitivities to inform the plan’s development  and compare resource portfolios"
"under a variety of assumptions. The scenarios included four required by the MPSC, three developed  by DTE Electric and one suggested by our technical stakeholders. Sensitivities included customer load alternatives, energy waste  reduction levels and costs, gas and carbon prices, lithium-ion battery benefits and several others. DTE Electric also collaborated  with industry experts to evaluate potential electric reliability impacts to ensure reliability, resource adequacy and diversity as  we"
"sought an affordable path to decarbonization. By incorporating learnings from resource adequacy and grid modeling into our  IRP process, we reduce risks to customers by having sufficient, local and diverse resources and a reliable grid. The output of this  modeling provided an optimal or least-cost portfolio of resources for each scenario and sensitivity combination which could be  compared to each other for cost, reliability and environmental impact. See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement    See"
"DTE Energy's 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2024  See the Environment and Supply Chain sections of this report Describe the potential  impact of different  scenarios, including  a  2 degrees C scenario,  on the organization's  businesses, strategy and  financial planning. (Cont.) Describe how resilient defined  strategies are to climate related risks  and opportunities for a transition to a  lower-carbon economy consistent  with a 2°C (Cont.) DTE identifies issues that are material to"
"its financial or strategic planning in required financial filings to the Securities and  Exchange Commission (e.g., annual 10-K reports). SEC provides guidance on reporting material issues in financial statements in  SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 99, August 12, 1999. The Bulletin suggests that a mix of quantitative and qualitative information  is necessary to evaluate the materiality of an aspect or issue. The definition of materiality extends to any financial and strategic  impact that an"
"investor would deem substantive, and DTE aims to maintain a reputation of sound risk assessment and management  among its investors. For example, extreme weather conditions are identified as a risk in our 2024 10-K Annual Report, which we  would consider a substantive financial or strategic impact if it caused damage to the electric distribution system infrastructure and  power generation facilities. Recovering from these setbacks would result in increased costs from unforeseen maintenance to"
"our  power generation facilities, therefore negatively impacting the financial performance of the company. A brief explanation of the  more significant risks associated with DTE Energy's businesses are provided in our 2024 Form 10-K annual report. (Cont.) > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report 2024 DTE Sustainability Report   page 70 DISCLOSURE FOCUS AREA RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURE RESPONSE Describe the potential"
"impact of different  scenarios, including  a  2 degrees C scenario,  on the organization's  businesses, strategy and  financial planning.  Describe how resilient defined  strategies are to climate related risks  and opportunities for a transition to a  lower-carbon economy consistent  with a 2°C. Although we have tried to identify and discuss key risk factors, others could emerge in the future. Key risk factors related to  climate change include the following:  • Environmental laws and liability"
"may be costly.  • Weather significantly affects operations. • We may not achieve the carbon emissions goals of our electric and gas utilities. Finally, long-range planning risks associated with the  transition of DTE's generating fleet to less carbon-intensive technologies are addressed through the company's Integrated Resource  Planning process. These risks include increasing pressure by investors and other stakeholders to conduct climate scenario analyses  demonstrating the company's"
"commitment to limiting global warming to less than 2-degrees C above pre-industrial levels. Risk Management  Disclosure how the  organization identifies,  assesses and manages  climate-related risks.  Risk management processes for  identifying and assessing climate- related risks. Include how the relative  significance of climate-related risks in  relation to other risks is determined.  The Board receives, reviews and assesses reports from the board committees and from management relating to"
"enterprise-level  risks. Each board committee is responsible for overseeing and considering risk issues relating to their respective committee and  reporting their assessments to the full Board at each regularly scheduled board meeting. When granting authority to management,  reviewing strategies and receiving management reports, the board and committees consider, among other things, the risks we face.  Each board committee reviews management’s assessment of risk for that committee’s respective"
"area of responsibility. As part of its  oversight function, the board addresses any risk conflicts that may arise between the committees and assigns any emerging risks  that do not fall within a specific committee’s responsibilities to the most relevant committee.  Our chairman and CEO, together with other senior leaders of the company, including the vice president of Environmental  Management and Safety, provide leadership and oversight of our sustainability initiatives. Through enterprise"
"priority meetings and/ or other leadership committees, DTE’s senior management team is responsible for the following: -Gather and respond to input from investors, regulating bodies and other key stakeholders regarding our sustainability  strategies, initiatives and priorities -Review internal sustainability data and disclosure documents in consultation with relevant business units -Execute our company’s sustainability strategies, including governance, engagement and oversight initiatives, in"
"consultation  with the Board of Directors -Manage our environmental compliance processes and carbon-reduction strategy -Manage the progress of our diversity, equity and inclusion strategies -Mobilize our employees, resources and partner organizations to strengthen and promote prosperity in our communities -Report the outcomes of our sustainability initiatives to the Board of Directors -Manage risks and opportunities associated with environmental and social initiatives -Receive compensation tied"
"to the achievement of company goals  See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement    See DTE Energy's 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2024   See the Risk Governance section of this report Describe the  organizations processes  for managing climate- related risks (Cont.) Processes for managing and prioritizing  climate-related risks, including decisions  to mitigate, transfer, accept, or control  those risks and how materiality  determinations are made within their  organizations. (Cont.) The"
"Board receives, reviews and assesses reports from the board committees and from management relating to enterprise-level  risks. Each board committee is responsible for overseeing and considering risk issues relating to their respective committee and  reporting their assessments to the full Board at each regularly scheduled board meeting. When granting authority to management,  reviewing strategies and receiving management reports, the board and committees consider, among other things, the risks"
"we face.  Each board committee reviews management’s assessment of risk for that committee’s respective area of responsibility. As part of its  oversight function, the board addresses any risk conflicts that may arise between the committees and assigns any emerging risks  that do not fall within a specific committee’s responsibilities to the most relevant committee. > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report 2024 DTE"
"Sustainability Report         page 71 DISCLOSURE FOCUS AREA RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURE RESPONSE Describe the  organizations processes  for managing climate- related risks Processes for managing and prioritizing  climate-related risks, including decisions  to mitigate, transfer, accept, or control  those risks and how materiality  determinations are made within their  organizations. Our chairman and CEO, together with other senior leaders of the company, including the vice president of Environmental"
"Management and Safety, provide leadership and oversight of our sustainability initiatives. Through enterprise priority meetings and/ or other leadership committees, DTE’s senior management team is responsible for the following: -Gather and respond to input from investors, regulating bodies and other key stakeholders regarding our sustainability  strategies, initiatives and priorities -Review internal sustainability data and disclosure documents in consultation with relevant business units"
"-Execute our company’s sustainability strategies, including governance, engagement and oversight initiatives, in consultation  with the Board of Directors -Manage our environmental compliance processes and carbon-reduction strategy -Manage the progress of our diversity, equity and inclusion strategies -Mobilize our employees, resources and partner organizations to strengthen and promote prosperity in our communities -Report the outcomes of our sustainability initiatives to the Board of Directors"
"-Manage risks and opportunities associated with environmental and social initiatives -Receive compensation tied to the achievement of company goals See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement    See DTE Energy's 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2024  See the Risk Governance section of this report Describe how processes  for identifying,  assessing, and managing  climate-related risks  are integrated into the  organization’s overall  risk management. The Board receives, reviews and assesses"
"reports from the board committees and from management relating to enterprise-level  risks. Each board committee is responsible for overseeing and considering risk issues relating to their respective committee and  reporting their assessments to the full Board at each regularly scheduled board meeting. When granting authority to management,  reviewing strategies and receiving management reports, the board and committees consider, among other things, the risks we face.  Each board committee"
"reviews management’s assessment of risk for that committee’s respective area of responsibility. As part of  its oversight function, the board addresses any risk conflicts that may arise between the committees and assigns any emerging  risks that do not fall within a specific committee’s responsibilities to the most relevant committee. See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy  Statement    See DTE Energy's 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2024 See the Risk Governance section of this report Metrics and"
"Targets  Disclose the metrics and  targets used to assess  and damage relevant  climate-related risks and  opportunities. (Cont.) Relevant key metrics used to measure  and manage climate-related risks and  opportunities associated with water and  energy (Cont.). DTE Energy plans to reduce the carbon emissions of its electric utility operations by 65% in 2028, 85% in 2032, and 90% by 2040  from 2005 carbon emissions levels. DTE Energy plans to end its use of coal-fired power plants in 2032 and is"
"committed to a net  zero carbon emissions goal by 2050 for its electric and gas utility operations. Additionally, as a result of legislation passed by the  state of Michigan in the fourth quarter 2023, DTE Energy will be required to meet a 100% clean energy portfolio standard by 2040.  Clean energy sources include renewables, nuclear, and natural gas-fired plants equipped with a carbon capture and storage system  that is at least 90% effective in reducing carbon emissions to the atmosphere. The"
"legislation also requires 50% of an electric utility's  energy to be generated from renewable sources by 2030 and 60% by 2035. DTE Energy is currently assessing the impacts of this  legislation and will include updates in its next Integrated Resource Plan to comply with the new requirements. See the EEI/AGA and  Climate Goals section of this report . See Environment section of this report  For the gas utility, DTE Energy aims to cut carbon emissions across the entire value chain. DTE Energy"
"plans to reduce the carbon  emissions from its gas utility operations by 65% by 2030 and 80% by 2040, and is committed to a goal of net zero emissions by  2050 from internal gas operations and gas suppliers. To achieve net zero, DTE Energy is working to source gas with lower methane  intensity, reduce emissions through its gas main renewal and pipeline integrity programs, and if necessary, use carbon offsets to  address any remaining emissions. (Cont.) > Environment > Social > Governance >"
"Appendix > Intro  Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report 2024 DTE Sustainability Report        page 72 DISCLOSURE FOCUS AREA RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURE RESPONSE Disclose the metrics and  targets used to assess  and damage relevant  climate-related risks and  opportunities. Relevant key metrics used to measure  and manage climate-related risks and  opportunities associated with water and  energy DTE Energy also aims to help DTE Gas customers reduce their emissions by"
"approximately 35% by 2040 by increasing energy  efficiency, pursuing advanced technologies such as hydrogen and carbon capture and sequestration, and through the Clean Vision  Natural Gas Balance program which provides customers the option to use carbon offsets and renewable natural gas. See the GHG  Emissions Summary in this report DTE Electric’s water withdrawal goals are to reduce water withdrawal by 65% (from a 2005 baseline) in 2028, 90% in 2032 and  greater than 90% in 2040. Describe how"
"related performance  metrics are incorporated into  remuneration policies for material  climate-related risks and opportunities.  See GRI 2-19 and GRI 2-20 Details can be found in DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement. For Board see Board of Directors Compensation on page 24 and for  Executives see Executive Compensation on page 37 and Proposal 3 - Advisory Proposal - Nonbinding Vote to Approve Executive  Compensation on page 33. See also Independent Review of Compensation Program on page 40. At the"
"2025 annual meeting,  shareholders supported an advisory vote on executive compensation with 97.1% of those voting in favor. See the full results in DTE  Energy's Form 8-K filed on May 14, 2025. Internal carbon prices as well as other  climate-related opportunity metrics.  Ie. revenue from products and services  designed for a lower-carbon economy The Company uses carbon pricing estimates in long-term generation planning in the Integrated Resource Planning (IRP) process. See DTE Energy's 2025"
"Proxy Statement      See DTE Energy's 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2024 Metrics trend analysis and description  of the methodologies used to calculate  or estimate climate-related metrics. See the DTE Electric carbon reduction goals section of the report.   See the DTE Gas decarbonization goals section of report.  The solid line provides the historical trend for those emissions. Disclose Scope 1, Scope  2, and, if appropriate,  Scope 3 greenhouse gas  (GHG) emissions and the  related"
"risks. (Cont.) Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions  independent of a materiality  assessment. See the GHG Summary Table within the Sustainability Report. Scope 1 emissions include direct emissions for DTE Electric stationary sources as reported to EPA's GHG Reporting Program (40 CFR  98) for 2024 and emissions from the following peaking unit sources that fall below the reporting threshold of 25,000 metric tons  CO2e and are not required to be reported under the EPA GHGRP: Colfax, Hancock,"
"Northeast, Oliver, Putnam, Superior, and Wilmot.   Scope 1 emissions also include direct emissions for DTE Gas stationary sources as reported to EPA's GHG Reporting Program (40  CFR 98) under Subpart C (combustion emissions) and Subpart W (fugitive emissions) as well as sources that are not required to  be reported under 40 CFR 98 but are reported to the ONE Future Coalition to demonstrate DTE’s commitment to achieving the  collective ONE Future goal of reducing methane intensity to less than 1"
"percent by 2025 across the natural gas value chain. The  ONE Future reporting does include emissions from stationary sources that fall below the reporting threshold of 25,000 metric  tons CO2e: Alpena Compressor Station, Columbus Compressor Station, and Kalkaska Compressor Station. Additionally DTE Energy  Scope 1 emissions include direct emissions for DTE Vantage stationary sources as reported to 40 CFR 98 and/or the California  GHG Reporting Regulation. DTE Vantage Scope 1 emissions include"
"the owned anthropogenic emissions from the sites that DTE  Vantage has at least partial ownership.  Owned fleet vehicle emissions for DTE Electric and DTE Gas are also reported under Scope 1  emissions. Scope 2 emissions related to the transmission and distribution losses from purchased power are reported.  Scope 2 emissions for  DTE Gas and DTE Vantage facilities outside of the DTE Electric service territory are not currently calculated.  DTE Energy does  not intend to calculate Scope 2"
"emissions related to electrical power provided to any DTE Facilities within the DTE Electric service  territory as these are currently reported as Scope 1 emissions for DTE Electric. See the EEI/AGA section of this report. > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report 2024 DTE Sustainability Report       page 73 DISCLOSURE FOCUS AREA RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURE RESPONSE Disclose Scope 1, Scope  2, and, if appropriate,  Scope"
"3 greenhouse gas  (GHG) emissions and the  related risks.  Calculated GHG emission alignment with  the GHG Protocol methodology.  DTE reporting boundary for all Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions reported is based Equity Share.  Standard, protocol, or methodology used  to collect activity data and calculate emissions include:  1) The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition), 2) US EPA Center for Corporate Climate Leadership: Direct Emissions from"
"Stationary Combustion Sources,  3) US EPA Center for Corporate Climate Leadership: Direct Emissions from Mobile Combustion Sources,  4) US EPA Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule,  5) US EPA Emissions & Generation Resource Integrated Database (eGRID), and US EPA GHG Emissions Factors Hub; Greenhouse  Gas Emissions: Accounting for Electric Companies; A compendium of Technical Briefing Papers and Frequently Asked  Questions; California Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Regulation  Calculated"
"GHG emission alignment with  the GHG Protocol methodology.  We are reporting a Scope 2, location-based figure for DTE Electric Scope 2 emissions. We have operations where we are able to  access electricity supplier emission factors or residual emissions factors, but are unable to report a Scope 2, market-based figure.  DTE Electric reports Scope 2 emissions associated with transmission and distribution line losses for wholesale power purchased  from other parties and transmitted or distributed"
"across the company’s system. Scope 2 emissions from power purchases by DTE  Gas and DTE Vantage outside of DTE Electric’s service territory are currently not counted or included in the Scope 2 emissions  calculation because these emissions are considered to be small compared to DTE Energy’s overall Scope 2 emissions. Estimate of DTE Electric emissions associated with transmission and distribution (T&D) line losses for wholesale power purchased  from other parties and transmitted or distributed"
"across the company’s system. T&D line loss emissions are calculated as follows:  [Purchased Power]*[Annual Average Line Loss on DTE system]*[eGRID Emission Factor for Subregion RFC]. DTE Electric excludes all Scope 3 emissions except the emissions associated with purchased power within our service territory.  DTE Gas includes only the Scope 3 upstream emissions associated with Category 1, 3 and 4. DTE Gas only includes the downstream  emissions of gas sold to customers (excluding EUT and GCC"
"customers) multiplied by emission factors found in the GHG Emission  Factors Hub. DTE Vantage does not include Scope 2 or Scope 3 emissions. Industry-specific GHG efficiency ratio(s) DTE Energy provides the Emission Intensity for Scope 1 GHG emissions in GRI 305-4 framework.  This value for the 2024 reporting  year is 0.00194 MT CO2e/(Revenue ($)) GHG emissions and associated metrics  historical trend analysis. Description  of any methodology changes used to  calculate or estimate the metrics."
"Currently DTE Energy only provides the approximate values for the baseline year associated with DTE Electric Scope 1, Scope 2, and  Scope 3 Emissions using the methodology described in TCFD Metrics and Targets b.   DTE Energy is evaluating how many years to include in the sustainability report to provide a trend analysis.  Generally, the Scope 1  emissions have been steadily decreasing since 2005 for both DTE Electric and DTE Gas. > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Task"
"Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report 2024 DTE Sustainability Report     page 74 DISCLOSURE FOCUS AREA RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURE RESPONSE Describe the targets used  by the organization to  manage climate-related  risks and opportunities  and performance against  targets. (Cont.)  Key climate-related targets such as  those related to GHG emissions, water  usage, energy usage, etc., in line with  anticipated regulatory requirements  or market constraints or other goals.  Other"
"goals may include efficiency or  financial goals, financial loss tolerances,  avoided GHG emissions through the  entire product life cycle, or net revenue  goals for products and services designed  for a lower-carbon economy.  DTE Energy plans to reduce the carbon emissions from its gas utility operations by 65% by 2030 and 80% by 2040, and is  committed to a goal of net zero carbon emissions by 2050 from internal gas operations and gas suppliers. To achieve net zero,  DTE Gas is working to"
"source gas with lower methane intensity, reduce emissions through its main renewal and pipeline integrity  programs, and if necessary, use carbon offsets to address any remaining emissions. DTE Energy also aims to help DTE Gas  customers reduce their emissions by approximately 35% by 2040 by increasing energy efficiency, pursuing advanced technologies  such as hydrogen and carbon capture and sequestration, and through the Clean Vision Natural Gas Balance program which provides  customers the"
"option to use carbon offsets and renewable natural gas. DTE Energy also has the following goals: Net Zero GHGs by 2050: Upstream Supplier Emissions -Encouraging transparent and consistent reporting of methane emissions -Sourcing gas with lower methane intensities -Pursuing programs which promote a cleaner natural gas product -Utilizing carbon offsets to balance any remaining emissions Net Zero GHGs by 2050: Internal Operations (DTE Gas Emissions) -Replacing old steel and cast-iron pipes with new"
"durable pipes -Implementing new technologies to detect leaks more quickly -Reducing gas being vented to the atmosphere -Upgrading compressor stations -Utilizing carbon offsets to balance any remaining emissions Reduce GHGs 35% by 2040: Downstream (Customer-use Emissions) -Offering voluntary program - Natural Gas Balance -Increasing energy efficiency targets -Incorporating renewable natural gas into our system supply -Pursuing advanced technologies such as hydrogen and carbon capture See DTE"
"Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement    See DTE Energy's 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2024   See the EEI/AGA, Climate Goals and Environment sections of the report. Associated interim targets, in aggregate  or by business, related to disclosed  medium-term or long-term targets.  (Cont.) DTE Energy plans to reduce the carbon emissions from its gas utility operations by 65% by 2030 and 80% by 2040, and is  committed to a goal of net zero carbon emissions by 2050 from internal gas operations"
"and gas suppliers. To achieve net zero,  DTE Gas is working to source gas with lower methane intensity, reduce emissions through its main renewal and pipeline integrity  programs, and if necessary, use carbon offsets to address any remaining emissions. DTE Energy also aims to help DTE Gas  customers reduce their emissions by approximately 35% by 2040 by increasing energy efficiency, pursuing advanced technologies  such as hydrogen and carbon capture and sequestration, and through the Clean"
"Vision Natural Gas Balance program which provides  customers the option to use carbon offsets and renewable natural gas. > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report 2024 DTE Sustainability Report    page 75 DISCLOSURE FOCUS AREA RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURE RESPONSE Describe the targets used  by the organization to  manage climate-related  risks and opportunities  and performance against  targets. (Cont.) Associated interim"
"targets, in aggregate  or by business, related to disclosed  medium-term or long-term targets.  DTE Energy also has the following goals:  Net Zero GHGs by 2050: Upstream Supplier Emissions -Encouraging transparent and consistent reporting of methane emissions -Sourcing gas with lower methane intensities -Pursuing programs which promote a cleaner natural gas product -Utilizing carbon offsets to balance any remaining emissions Net Zero GHGs by 2050: Internal Operations (DTE Gas Emissions)"
"-Replacing old steel and cast-iron pipes with new durable pipes -Implementing new technologies to detect leaks more quickly -Reducing gas being vented to the atmosphere -Upgrading compressor stations -Utilizing carbon offsets to balance any remaining emissions Reduce GHGs 35% by 2040: Downstream (Customer-use Emissions) -Offering voluntary program - Natural Gas Balance -Increasing energy efficiency targets -Incorporating renewable natural gas into our system supply -Pursuing advanced"
"technologies such as hydrogen and carbon capture See DTE Energy's 2025 Proxy Statement    See DTE Energy's 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2024   See the EEI/AGA, Climate Goals and Environment sections of the report. Methodologies used to calculate targets  and measures (Cont.) DTE Energy plans to reduce the carbon emissions from its gas utility operations by 65% by 2028 and 90% by 2040, and is committed to a  goal of net zero carbon emissions by 2050 from internal gas operations and"
"gas suppliers. To achieve net zero, DTE Gas is working to source  gas with lower methane intensity, reduce emissions through its main renewal and pipeline integrity programs, and if necessary, use carbon  offsets to address any remaining emissions. DTE Energy also aims to help DTE Gas customers reduce their emissions by approximately 35%  by 2040 by increasing energy efficiency, pursuing advanced technologies such as hydrogen and carbon capture and sequestration, and  through the Clean Vision"
"Natural Gas Balance program which provides customers the option to use carbon offsets and renewable natural gas. DTE Electric Interim Targets/ Goals: Scope 1, 90% reduction from base year by 2040 Base Year: 2005, Base Year Scope 1 emissions:  38,010,000 metric tons CO2eScope 1, 65% reduction from base year by 2028, Base Year: 2005, Base Year Scope 1 emissions:  38,010,000 metric tons CO2eScope 1, 100% reduction from base year by 2050 Base Year: 2005, Base Year Scope 1 emissions:  38,010,000"
"metric tons CO2e As stated in the Integrated Resource Plan approved in 2023, a key part of our clean energy generation transformation and net  zero carbon emissions goal involves the sequential retirement of our coal-fired power plants. Our senior leaders established a  vision to retire coal-fired power plants with PRIDE (People, Respect, Integrity, Dignity and Engagement). This vision is rooted in the  concept that the plants and the employees who operate them every day have been partnering"
"with nearby communities for nearly  100 years. The initiative seeks to ensure a thoughtful, dignified transition of these power plants, the employees and their host  communities. A key commitment we have made in the retirement of our legacy coal plants is to avoid employee layoffs. Through the  Retire with PRIDE initiative, we will seek to accomplish this through several measures that may include collaborating with union  leadership to equip employees with training, skills and opportunities to"
"succeed in other roles at our company. > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report 2024 DTE Sustainability Report     page 76 Financial Category  Climate-Related Category Recommended Disclosure Revenues  GHG Emissions - Estimated Scope 3  emissions, including methodologies and  emissions used. Of the 15 Scope 3 categories, DTE considers Purchased Goods and Services, Capital Goods and Services, Fuel-and-Energy-Related"
"Activities (not included in Scope 1 or 2), Upstream Transportation and Distribution, Waste Generated in Operations, Business Travel,  Employee Commuting, Upstream Leased Assets, Processing of Sold Products, and Use of Sold Products relevant to our operations.   However, DTE only is able to calculate a portion of five of these categories at this time; Purchased Goods and Services, Fuel-and- Energy-Related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or 2), Upstream Transportation and Distribution,"
"Business Travel, and Use of Sold  Products. Purchased Goods and Services is calculated for natural gas supplied to DTE Gas prior to our processing and distribution operations.   The emissions are calculated utilizing the average data and distance-based methodologies.  In 2024, DTE calculated that  approximately 241,000 MT CO2e can be attributed to this category.  DTE has not calculated all CO2 equivalent emissions related to  this category due to the large margin of error when using the spend"
"base methodology. Fuel-and-Energy-Related Activities (not included in Scope 1 or 2) includes upstream production and transportation emissions for  the natural gas combusted by DTE Gas as fuel or leaked or vented through DTE Gas distribution operations and emissions related  to interconnected power sales by DTE Electric.  The CO2 equivalent emissions are calculated by developing an intensity value for  the production and transmission of natural gas purchased by DTE Gas and multiplying that value"
"by the volume of gas attributed to  this category.  In 2024, DTE calculated that approximately 3,927,000 MT CO2e can be attributed to this category.  Upstream Transportation and Distribution includes emissions associated with the upstream transportation of natural gas purchased  or acquired by DTE Gas for resale to customers.  DTE determines an intensity factor for natural gas purchased and the distance  from the natural gas basin to the compressor or gate stations owned by DTE Gas.  The"
"emissions for this category related to  DTE Gas are then calculated utilizing the derived factors and the average data and distance-based methodologies.  In 2024, DTE  calculated that approximately 204,000 MT CO2e can be attributed to this category.  Business Travel includes emissions related to business travel using employee owned vehicles (for which mileage was reimbursed).   Air, rental vehicles, bus, motorcycle and rail business travel are not accounted for at this time.  DTE Gas and DTE"
"Electric use the  distance-based method to determine the emissions related to this category.  In 2024, DTE calculated that approximately 2,700 MT  CO2e can be attributed to this category.  Use of Sold Products includes the emissions that would result from the combustion of natural gas delivered by local distribution  company that is owned DTE Gas.  Downstream emissions were calculated using the gas sold to customers (excludes EUT and  Gas Choice customers) multiplied by emission factors found in"
"the GHG Emission Factor Hub.  In 2024, DTE calculated that  approximately 6,679,000 MT CO2e can be attributed to this category.  Downstream Leased Assets, Franchises, and Investments scope 3 categories have not been evaluated by DTE Energy at this time.  See GHG Summary in this report. DISCLOSURE FOCUS AREA RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURE RESPONSE Describe the targets used  by the organization to  manage climate-related  risks and opportunities  and performance against  targets. Methodologies used to"
"calculate targets  and measures DTE Gas Goals: Scope 1, 100% reduction from base year by 2050 Base Year: 2005, Scope 1 emissions in reporting year covered by target (metric  tons CO2e): 737,000 (DTE Gas, covers combustion and fugitive emission within DTE's gas distribution system) Scope 3, 100%  reduction from base year by 2050 Scope 3, 35% reduction from base year by 2040  The company’s emission reduction commitments, combined with customer participation in sustainability programs offered by"
"DTE  Gas, aim to reduce annual greenhouse gas emissions substantially across the natural gas supply chain. > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro  Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Report 2024 DTE Sustainability Report    page 77 Financial Category  Climate-Related Category Recommended Disclosure Revenues - Risk  Adaptation & Mitigation Revenues/ savings from investments  in low-carbon alternatives (e.g. R&D,  equipment, products or services). See DTE"
"Energy's 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2024. See Environment section of this report See DTE Clean Vision (IRP) Expenditures - GHG  Emissions Describe current carbon price or range  of prices used.  $7.03 - $22.32/Metric ton. It is expected that the carbon price will increase over time. The Company’s carbon price starts in 2027,  prior to 2027, $0/Metric ton is used. Expenditures - Water Percent water withdrawn in regions  with high or extremely high baseline  water stress. DTE"
"Energy's operations are mainly located in the Great Lakes area, where water is abundant. DTE Energy's  water sources are  generally withdrawn from the St. Lawrence water basin. The St. Lawrence water basin is a Low Risk for water quality and  quantity according to the WRI Water Risk Atlas, therefore, no further assessments are warranted. Assets - Water Assets committed in regions with high  or extremely high baseline water stress.  DTE has assessed their sites using the WRI Aqueduct Tool and all"
"sites fall within the Low Risk rating. There are no assets  committed in regions with high or extremely high baseline water stress. Assets - Risk Adaptation  & Mitigation Investment (CapEx) in low-carbon  alternatives (e.g., capital equipment or  assets). See DTE Energy's 10-K for the fiscal year ending Dec. 31, 2024  See Environment section of this report  Capital  - Risk Adaptation  & Mitigation Capital payback periods or return on  capital deployed.  See DTE Energy's 10-K for the fiscal year"
"ending Dec. 31, 2024  See Environment section of this report  > Environment > Social > Governance > Appendix > Intro"
