"  2024 Performance Report energy for a better future  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  2  Key performance indicators  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  3 Letter to our stakeholders  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  4 Our strategy  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  7 About this report  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    10 Our company  .  .  .  ."
".  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  11 Our purpose and mission  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  11 Entergy by the numbers  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  12 Stakeholder engagement  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   15 Safety  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   22 Awards and recognition  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ."
".  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   23 Our leadership  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  24 Board of directors  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  24 Executive officers  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  25 Our talent and culture  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  26 Capability  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ."
".  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  28 Organizational health  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   29 Environmental stewardship  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   31 Climate strategy  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  32 Governance  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  34 Biodiversity  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ."
".  .  .  .  .  .  36 Procurement and supply chain  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   38 Corporate citizenship  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  39  Community investment  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   40 Customer assistance  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   40 Pro bono services  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   41 Governance  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ."
".  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  43 Our values  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  43 Our board’s role  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  44 Sustainability management  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  44 Risk management  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  44 2024 financial highlights  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ."
".  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  46 Forward-looking information  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   60 Regulation G compliance  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  64 Investor information  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   65 Table of contents Navigating this document: Select the       icon at the top of each page to return to this contents page.   Each title on this page is a link to that section. Text in blue throughout this"
"report is a navigational link. – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  3  Capital plan Four-year plan  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   9 Entergy by the numbers Revenues, assets, sales and more  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  12  Sources of energy and capability   by fuel source  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  12 Stakeholder engagement Empowered transition"
".  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   17 Affordability . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  18 National rate comparison  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  18 Safety performance Total recordable incident rate  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    22 Leadership Board demographics  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ."
".   24 Our workforce Organizational health  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    29 Climate key goals and progress Progress toward our interim goals . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    31 Progress toward our 2050   net-zero commitment  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   32  CO2 emission rate of top 20 privately-/  investor-owned power producers  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   32  Clean energy transition"
"technologies . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   33 Reducing our emissions  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   34 Percentage of coal combustion byproduct   managed for beneficial use  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    35 Protecting natural resources Water compliance  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    35 Environmental Initiatives Fund contributions  .  .  .  .   37 Procurement and supply chain Local"
"spending  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    38 Corporate citizenship 2024 program value  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   40 Volunteer Income Tax Assistance  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    40 LIHEAP customer assistance payments  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    40 Philanthropy investment  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    40 Financial results Total shareholder returns"
".  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   47 Credit ratings  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   47 Five-year cumulative return  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   47 Key performance indicators Meaningful engagement with our key stakeholders includes ongoing updates on our progress toward our stated goals.   These updates are provided in a number of ways, including this report and other"
"communications.  We provide extensive  information in our Entergy newsroom and on entergy.com.  There, stakeholders can find details on our community  engagement; investor relations; supplier sustainability; and more.  The index on this page summarizes key performance  indicators throughout this report. – – – Each indicator on this page is a link to the corresponding data.  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  4  letter to our stakeholders Last year was a remarkable moment in our company’s"
"history.  Never have we seen a growth opportunity like the  one our employees are now rising to meet.  I’m honored  to share this update with you on what we achieved last  year through the skill and dedication of approximately  12,000 employees and the service they provided to our  stakeholders across the regions we serve.   In this report, we highlight progress toward fulfilling  our mission to create sustainable value for our four  stakeholders: our customers, employees, communities and"
"owners.  And our customer-centric focus positions us well  to capture the significant growth opportunities ahead. Our role in the Gulf South’s economic growth story The Gulf South has many natural advantages for economic  growth including its robust transportation access,  supportive communities and strong workforce.  In addition,  low energy costs and abundant energy transportation  have long been a foundation of the economy of the Gulf  South.  Entergy’s competitive rates have been an engine"
"for growth for many years, and our economic development  teams have collaborated with our states, communities and  local partners to produce industrial sales growth over the  last decade that is the envy of our country.    Even as I share this good news, I believe the best is yet to  come.  We’re projecting 6% to 7% retail sales compound  annual growth through 2028 due to a rapidly growing  regional economy that’s driving diverse industrial growth.   This growth continues to be fueled by the"
"advantages  of our region.  Throughout this report, we will share  more about the qualities that since early 2024 helped  attract that diverse growth, including hyperscale data  centers making positive impacts in the communities we  serve in Mississippi and Louisiana.  Entergy’s economic  development and stakeholder engagement teams played  critical roles in securing these new customers, and this  growth brings important value to our stakeholders. To support this growth, we have assembled a"
"strong  capital plan that will serve these large customers, improve  the resilience and reliability of our system for the benefit of  all customers, and help positively position the Gulf South  region for further business investment while maintaining  our cost competitiveness.  We plan to invest $37 billion  in generation, transmission and distribution from 2025  through 2028.  This represents a significant increase  in capital requirements and reflects the growth we are  seeing in our region. –"
"– –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  5  letter to our stakeholders Entergy 2023 Performance Report  |  5  A sustainable plan to support growth  As you read this report, you will learn how we are  uniquely positioned to foster and manage such industrial  growth while staying focused on a clean energy  transition at the request of our customers.  We operate  one of the cleanest large-scale power generation fleets  in the United States, as described in the environmental  stewardship section of"
"this report.  Although meeting  the power demand from significant growth presents  some environmental challenges, we remain committed,  as we have always been, to making the energy we  deliver cleaner.   Driven by our industrial customers’ requests for our  help in reducing greenhouse gas emissions due to  their operations, we continue to expand our renewable  generation portfolio.  We have active requests for  proposals for new renewable energy in Arkansas and  Louisiana in addition to the"
"planned 1,500 megawatts  associated with the Meta data center project in  Louisiana and 650 megawatts associated with the  Amazon data center project in Mississippi. We’re also investing in several new modern and efficient  natural gas plants to help meet the significant demand  from our customers.  This includes the Orange County  Advanced Power Station in Texas and the Delta Blues  Advanced Power Station in Mississippi, both under  construction.  We also have pending regulatory approval"
"requests for a combustion turbine plant in Arkansas,  three combined cycle facilities in Louisiana, and one  of each in Texas.  The design for each of the combined  cycle facilities will include specific accommodations for  the use of carbon capture technology so we can take  advantage of the unique geological advantages of our  region and meet customers’ growing need for clean  energy.  We are working closely with our customers and  local communities to realize the safe and permanent  storage"
"of captured carbon dioxide emissions. As we continue to collaborate with and find ways to  deliver what our new customers need, we’re also  working to protect our existing customers.  In addition  to supporting our hard work to keep costs low, our  new customers will provide community enhancements  through local jobs, local taxes and direct investments in  local workforce development and infrastructure. Engaging with our stakeholders Stakeholder engagement is a key element in the  economic"
"development and regulatory successes  we’ve achieved.  We’re striving to keep the lines of  communication open so that stakeholders better  understand what we’re doing, why we are doing it, and  how it benefits our customers and communities.   This continued focus on engaging with all our  stakeholders has helped us move forward in our  ongoing journey to be the premier utility.  It begins with  putting the customer first and making sure stakeholders  fully appreciate the proposed value for"
"everyone.  In the  last year, we successfully achieved several regulatory  outcomes using this collaborative approach.  You can  read more about our stakeholder engagement approach  in the our company section of this report. – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  6  letter to our stakeholders   – – – Our 2025 regulatory agenda is once again full, with several  formula rate plan filings, decisions on new customer-driven  generation and transmission investments, and more timely  storm cost"
"recovery for future storms, all of which will benefit  customers.   Managing risks for everyone At Entergy, we’re always mindful that 40% of our  approximately 3 million residential customers live at or below  the poverty line.  That difficult reality drives every business  decision we make.  For example, it makes our ongoing  investments in grid resilience more critical than ever.   Resilience improvement projects authorized by our  regulators are well underway.  In 2024, we received"
"accelerated resilience approvals in Texas, Louisiana and  New Orleans totaling more than $2 billion.  As a result, we  launched work on 73 distribution hardening projects and 11  transmission projects last year and have already completed  seven of those projects.  We expect the number of completed  projects will grow significantly this year, and we plan to seek  approvals for subsequent resilience investment phases  on a timeline that ensures ongoing progress.  Accelerated  resilience is just"
"one facet of our focus on strengthening the  power grid, along with all new assets being built to current,  more stringent standards, and damaged infrastructure from  weather events also being restored to current standards.   As in so many recent years along the Gulf Coast, 2024  served as a vivid reminder of the weather risks our  customers and communities face.  We experienced two  hurricanes, and our teams performed admirably, providing  safe and efficient restorations.  For Hurricane"
"Francine, we  used learnings from previous storm responses, including  Hurricane Beryl, to enable crews to restore 90% of our  customers within three days.  Entergy’s workers also assisted  other utilities in their restoration efforts following devastating  storms in the Southeast, lending more than 1,000 employees  and contractors to support Hurricane Helene restoration, and  again more than 1,000 for Hurricane Milton. Without strengthening and modernizing the electric grid,  all customers"
"would face a greater financial burden and  disruption when storms cause significant damage and longer  power outages.  But the burden would be more keenly felt  by those who are most vulnerable.  Our four-year capital  plan includes $16 billion in transmission and distribution  improvements to support greater resilience and reliability of  service. Fortunately, we continue to maintain some of the lowest  electric rates in the country.  And on behalf of our customers,  we remain focused on"
"fighting for every dollar available to  offset grid improvement costs or manage their impact.  This  includes ongoing work to drive continuous improvement  in our operations and potential for government funding  to lower costs, as well as direct support for customers  like bill payment assistance, flexible bill-pay options  and philanthropic giving.  Through our energy efficiency  programs, we are helping customers take action to reduce  their energy bills.   We’re also actively improving our"
"financial health.  Entergy’s  2024 adjusted earnings per share of $3. 65 was in the top  half of our guidance range.  We continued to make positive  progress on our credit metrics last year, providing financial  flexibility as well as long-term customer benefits through  a lower cost of capital.  Looking forward, our expected  double-digit industrial sales growth and an adjusted earnings  per share compound annual growth rate above 8% indicate  a strong outlook with a healthy balance sheet and"
"an  improving risk profile for all stakeholders, which in turn leads  to lower costs for everyone.    Looking ahead Collectively, this represents great progress, and our  stakeholders are excited about what we have accomplished.   But we can’t linger too long on the road already traveled  when the path ahead is filled with opportunity.  Our  leaders and employees are already out there, working and  embracing those opportunities, and I’m excited to lead this  team and serve our stakeholders along"
"the way.     Thank you for joining us on this transformational journey for  Entergy and our stakeholders.   Drew Marsh   Chair of the Board and Chief Executive Officer March 21, 2025  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  7  Driving growth in our region  Entergy is benefiting from companies expanding or  establishing new operations in the Gulf South.  That’s  in part because our service area provides access to  international markets with proximity to the Mississippi  River and the ports along the"
"Gulf Coast.  The region  already has abundant infrastructure for energy and  transportation and available labor.  Energy prices are  relatively low, and our communities are supportive of  growth. These advantages are creating an environment for  growth.  Since 2009, we’ve experienced a compound  annual growth rate for large industrials of 5%.  We have  a customer-led plan to invest for continued growth,  reliability and resilience while maintaining a strong  balance sheet and managing risk for"
"all stakeholders.   We’re ready Entergy’s capability to respond to several major  favorable trends – onshoring, technology, clean energy  and electrification – is helping drive growth.  Through  2028, we see long-term retail sales compound annual  growth of 6% to 7%, primarily due to double-digit  industrial sales compound annual growth of 12% to 13%,  largely from our large customer group.  We expect that  nearly 60% of our large industrial growth will come from  new data center customers."
"These new customers – like  the hyperscale data centers Entergy has announced for  north Louisiana and central Mississippi – bring significant  value, including good jobs, infrastructure improvements  and tax revenues.   Also driving growth are the things people and  businesses use every day that are more and more  dependent on electricity: electronic tablets, apps to  manage bills and appointments, and remote working and  learning, to name just a few.  We see future opportunities  for"
"electrification of industries and industrial processes  as well.   Through 2028, we plan to invest $37 billion to meet this  expected growth.  Our distribution plan is designed to  improve reliability and resilience, including accelerated  resilience projects already approved by our regulators.   Our generation and transmission plans will support  customer growth while also improving reliability and  resilience. our strategy Energy for a better future – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  8"
"our strategy How we’re delivering value We're working to deliver value to all of our key  stakeholders: •        We’re building a system that provides reliable,  resilient and affordable electric service while also  serving growing demand. •        We're actively pursuing economic development  opportunities to bring new businesses to our  communities. •      We facilitate stakeholder engagement to align all  stakeholders with our strategy, our actions and the  expected benefits for all.   •  We"
"provide our employees with competitive  compensation, professional development and  meaningful work. •       We support our communities through philanthropy  and advocacy. •        We’re growing responsibly with a focus on balance  sheet strength and conservative planning to  provide predictable outcomes. Attracting more business In addition to very strong industrial growth, we have  a pipeline of additional opportunities not included in  our base plan.  We're having discussions with potential"
"customers across multiple industries, including  data centers.   Entergy is well positioned to capture additional projects. •    We have extensive experience bringing large  customers online.   •      Our vertically integrated model allows us to  provide complete technical solutions.   • Our local relationships help align key stakeholders.   •        And our strong partnerships with vendors support  additional growth potential. We are also focused on maintaining affordability for  all customers."
"We include protections for existing  customers through tools such as minimum bills,  contributions in aid of construction, and supportive  credit terms.  New customers also boost economic  development and bring community benefits through  significant ad valorem taxes and direct investments  in workforce development and infrastructure  improvements. Stakeholder engagement is at the heart of our strategy  and was a key factor in successfully securing large data  centers for Mississippi and"
"Louisiana, where we helped  build strong support from states and local communities.   We relied on our long-standing relationships to enable  alignment among parties.  We facilitated agreements  that delivered what new customers need while also  delivering benefits to communities, all the while  protecting existing customers and Entergy’s operating  companies’ credit.  We are purposeful in engaging  meaningfully with stakeholders on regulatory initiatives  and special projects. – – –  Entergy"
"2024 Performance Report  |  9  our strategy Clean energy transition We are seeing growing interest from customers – new  and existing – for low-carbon energy solutions.  One  solution for reducing emissions is new renewable  capacity.  In 2024, five new solar resources were added,  bringing more than 700 megawatts of clean energy  capacity for customers.  The largest, Driver Solar situated  on 2,100 acres in Mississippi County, Arkansas, helps  meet clean energy needs of customers while"
"improving  service reliability and availability.  Entergy is targeting  the addition of more than 5,000 megawatts of solar  power by the end of 2028.  We are also evaluating the  feasibility of carbon capture and storage at our Lake  Charles Power Station in Louisiana.  This technology  captures CO2 produced by power generation or other  industrial activities and transports it to permanent  underground storage.  Today, our combined-cycle,  modern gas-fired plants that are under construction or"
"planned will be configured to allow for future CCS.  We  are also exploring expansion of our nuclear capacity  and evaluating power upgrades and potentially pursuing  additional 20-year license extensions.   Financial strength  Entergy has the financial discipline to execute our plan  responsibly.  Our customer-focused approach, combined  with strong stakeholder engagement, is delivering  strong financial outcomes.   Our robust continuous improvement culture is rooted in  employee-driven"
"initiatives.  We are driving efficiencies  in both everyday spending and capital expenditures.   That helps us manage costs for our customers and  enhances the overall customer experience. We’re confident in our customer-focused plan and  actions.  Our employees and our partners are excited  about our plan.  Together, we are ready to meet the  opportunities ahead.   – – – $37 billion 2025-2028 $10B  other new generation $8B   distribution $8B  transmission $5B   renewables $4B   generation"
"baseline $2B  other 4-year capital plan  Note 1: Total of the Total emissions in metric tons CO2e may differ due to rounding. Note 2: These emissions are calculated for information only – they are not included in the total shown because they are accounted for by the Scope 1 emissions  necessary to make up for these losses and usage. Previous years’ greenhouse gas inventory and related documentation are available here. Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  10  our strategy About this report This"
"report presents, as of March 21, 2025, Entergy’s 2024  performance, future plans and strategies for continued  success.  We take an integrated approach to reporting on our  company’s business objectives and outcomes.  Our report  includes financial results and the economic, environmental,  governance and social aspects that we believe help drive  our results.  For additional and current information on our  business and operations, visit entergy.com.  We provide links  throughout this report to"
"online information that expands on  report content. This report relies on guidance issued by the Global  Reporting Initiative, the world’s most widely used  sustainability reporting standards.  We report in accordance  with the GRI standards, including the Electric Utility Sector  Supplement.  In addition to disclosing financially material  information in our U. S.  Securities and Exchange Commission  reporting, Entergy discloses additional key metrics  and supporting narratives annually in this"
"report.  Other  organizations providing guidance that informs our disclosure  practices include the Edison Electric Institute and the  Sustainability Accounting Standards Board.  All are available  at entergy.com/sustainability/disclosures. Assurance of financial data in this report comes from our  internal controls over financial reporting, which Entergy  management assesses annually using criteria set forth by  the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway  Commission in Internal"
"Control — Integrated Framework.   Deloitte & Touche LLP has issued an attestation report on  the effectiveness of Entergy’s internal control over financial  reporting as of Dec.  31, 2024. Our 2024 greenhouse gas inventory is prepared in  accordance with international standards and was verified by  an independent third party in accordance with international  standards (ISO 14064-3) in early 2025.  The greenhouse gas  inventory and third-party verification reports are available at"
"entergy.com/sustainability/disclosures.   We invite you to engage with us through entergy.com/ reportfeedback. – – – Scope Source Total emissions in  metric tons CO2e Percentage of total  emissions see note 1 1  Stationary combustion 42,989,990 61% Mobile combustion 55,009  0.08% Fugitive emissions 139,692  0.20% 2 Purchased electricity 150 0.00% T&D losses and company usage 173,584  see note 2 3 Category 1 purchased goods and services 3,194,292 4.53% Category 2 capital goods 3,208,230 4.55%"
"Category 3 fuel-and-energy-related activities - purchased  power 9,091,869 12.89% Category 4 upstream transportation - gas delivery 8,812,058 12.49% Category 5 business travel 6,372 0.01% Category 7 employee commuting 27,800 0.04% Category 11 use of sold products - gas combustion 858,497 1.22% Category 13 leased assets 2,143,114  3.04% Total emissions 70,527,074 100% Entergy’s third-party verified 2024 greenhouse gas inventory by scope  and source  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  11  Who we"
"are and how we operate Entergy produces, transmits and distributes electricity to power  life for 3 million customers through our operating companies  in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas.  We’re investing  for growth and improved reliability and resilience of our energy  system while working to keep energy rates affordable for our  customers.  We’re also investing in cleaner energy generation like  modern natural gas, nuclear and renewable energy.  A nationally  recognized leader in"
"sustainability and corporate citizenship,  we deliver more than $100 million in economic benefits each  year to the communities we serve through philanthropy,  volunteerism and advocacy.  Entergy is a Fortune 500 company  headquartered in New Orleans, Louisiana, and has approximately  12,000 employees. Our purpose and mission We power life today and for future generations. We exist to grow a world-class energy business that creates  sustainable value for our four stakeholders: customers,"
"employees, communities and owners. our company To create value, we: Advance customer centricity • Customer experience  • Affordability  • Innovation Foster talent and culture • Organizational health  • Diversity, inclusion and belonging • Capability  Drive operational excellence • Safety  • Reliability  • Resilience Engage stakeholders • Policy and regulatory outcomes  • Brand and reputation health  • Stakeholder relations  Deliver sustainable growth • Predictability  • Credit and liquidity  •"
"Sustainability – – – – – – Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  11   Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  12  our company Entergy by the numbers  The information provided below is as of year-end 2024.   $11.9 billion GAAP revenues $1.1 billion GAAP net income attributable to Entergy Corporation $64.8 billion in total assets 3 million utility electric customers 123,851 gigawatt hour utility retail electric energy sales 24,479 megawatt utility owned and leased generating capability 107,255 circuit"
"miles of distribution lines across our   90,117 square mile service area 16,100 approximate circuit miles of interconnected   high-voltage transmission lines 12,267 employees Power generation Entergy is modernizing our generation portfolio.  As  of year-end 2024, 24% of our generating capability is  carbon emission-free, including nuclear energy and an  increasing amount of renewable energy capacity.   Modern natural gas units, including both simple  and combined cycle turbines, make up 43% of"
"our  generation capability.  We are committed to providing  safe, affordable, reliable energy to all customers, while  remaining focused on affordability and reliability.  We  continue to expand and pursue demand response  and energy efficiency programs, which helps support  affordability and sustainability objectives for Entergy  and our customers.  In some parts of our service area,  growing demand for electricity — from both existing and  new industrial customers — will require additional gas"
"generation capacity where carbon-free resources alone  would be insufficient.  Building and owning this capacity  ourselves allows us to serve this growth and minimize  the risk of higher market energy prices and capacity from  resources with higher emission rate profiles. We will work to mitigate the carbon emissions from any  such new plants — which will be modern, efficient gas  generation — by equipping them with the option for  hydrogen co-firing and/or carbon capture and storage,  two"
"technologies that are continuing to develop.  We  intend to work with our customers and regulators to  pursue such low-carbon technologies when feasible.   Currently Entergy is developing 6 gigawatts of combined  cycle and combustion turbine generation, scheduled to  come on line by the end of 2028. Power delivery  Our transmission system is the backbone of the electric  grid.  It helps Entergy move power from generating plants  to customers’ neighborhoods, across an interconnected  system of"
"transmission lines and substations.  Our system  spans approximately 16,100 circuit miles of transmission  lines, more than 107,000 circuit miles of distribution lines  and approximately 1,300 substations operated at 69 kV  to 500 kV.  – – – Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  12  Utility owned and leased generating  capability by fuel source 42% modern gas 27% nuclear 16% purchased power 10% legacy gas/oil  3% coal 2% renewables* 2024 sources of energy 43% modern gas (10,540 MW) 21% nuclear"
"(5,124 MW) 25% legacy gas/oil (6,012 MW)  8% coal (1,972 MW) 3% renewables (831 MW) 24,479 MW Note: the percentage of renewable and nuclear energy includes energy procured or produced for the beneﬁt of certain customers through special tariﬀs, contracts, or renewable program  subscriptions, and those customers retain the exclusive claims to all associated environmental attributes, RECs, and other relevant clean energy certiﬁcations. *Renewables include generation from both  owned and purchased"
"power resources. Arkansas  Louisiana Mississippi New Orleans Texas 735K   Electric retail  customers 1.1M* 459K 209K* 524K $2.5B   revenues $5.1B $1.8B $811M $2.1B $15.1B   assets $30.3B $7B $2.2B $9B *Also 96,000 Entergy Louisiana gas customers, 108,000 Entergy New Orleans  gas customers  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  13  our company – – – As severe weather events affecting the Gulf Coast  become more frequent, the need for a resilient power  grid is important for customers.  We are"
"investing in  equipment and processes designed to protect the grid  and our customers from extreme weather and support the  region’s growing energy needs. For example, Entergy Texas is transforming the power  grid on the Bolivar Peninsula, investing $110 million  to support growth and enhance reliability.  A key part  of this effort is using composite poles, an advanced  alternative to traditional wooden poles.  These poles  are designed to withstand extreme weather conditions,  including"
"hurricanes and wildfires, making them a critical  component of the region’s infrastructure upgrade. In July 2024, Hurricane Beryl swept through the Bolivar  Peninsula with winds reaching 90 miles per hour, testing  the resilience of the composite poles.  The storm knocked  16 wooden poles out of service, but every composite pole  remained standing, requiring little to no maintenance from  Entergy Texas crews. Two months later, category 2 Hurricane Francine struck  communities in southeastern"
"Louisiana, including Grand  Isle.  Fortunately, investments by Entergy to harden  transmission and distribution equipment paid off for  residents of Grand Isle.  The power stayed on, and  residents and public officials were able to get to work  immediately cleaning up the town and returning to  normal. These are just two examples of the benefits of our  resilience efforts, and we are working closely with utility  regulators in our service area to do even more in the  future to harden our system."
"In 2024, the Louisiana Public  Service Commission approved Phase 1 of our plan to  invest $1. 9 billion over five years to: •       Harden approximately 69,000 transmission and  distribution poles and other equipment. • Replace approximately 3,200 miles of wire. •    Convert approximately 100 miles of overhead wires  to underground wires, where appropriate. By the end of the year, we had started work on 84  projects under that plan.  And after Hurricane Francine  made landfall, Entergy"
"Louisiana’s post-storm inspections  showed that none of 250 hardened structures were  damaged or destroyed by the hurricane. We also received approval from the New Orleans City  Council to invest approximately $100 million in 2025 and  2026 to replace 30 miles of wires and harden more than  3,000 poles and other distribution structures. The Public Utility Commission of Texas approved our plan  for approximately $137 million in resilience work, including  hardening 6,000 transmission and"
"distribution structures  and replacing approximately 17 miles of wire. We’ll continue to work with our regulators to further  improve the power grid. Renewable energy  To meet our customers’ needs, Entergy is expanding  our solar and renewable energy resources and other  clean energy solutions as technology and economics  continue to improve and customer demand continues  to grow.  We’re showing that we can advance renewable  generation while balancing affordability and reliability for  our"
"customers. Entergy brought more than 700 megawatts of solar  resources online in 2024 including the Driver Solar, West  Memphis Solar and Walnut Bend Solar plants in Arkansas,  as well as the Elizabeth Solar and Sunlight Road Solar  plants in Louisiana.  Our plan calls for another 5,000  megawatts of new solar capacity through 2028.  We  currently have 1,600 megawatts of renewable capacity in  service, including solar, hydroelectric, biomass and waste  heat.  Roughly half of that capacity is"
"owned and the other  half is through purchase power agreements. ANO celebrates 50 years of powerful  service Entergy’s leadership in the nuclear industry  has been a foundation of our company’s  power generation system for a half century.  In December 2024, Arkansas Nuclear  One site celebrated 50 years of delivering  clean, carbon-free electricity to the grid.  Employees, news media and public officials  visited the site for the observance. In 2025, Grand Gulf Nuclear Station in Port  Gibson,"
"Mississippi, and Waterford 3 Steam  Electric Station in Killona, Louisiana, will  each mark 40 years of service.  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  14  our company – – – Nuclear energy  Entergy’s fleet of five reactors at four sites generates  enough clean, carbon-free electricity to power millions  of homes.  Our nuclear team of approximately 3,000  members across multiple states works 24/7 to help meet  our nation’s growing energy needs while also helping  address the challenge of climate"
"change. Currently, the U. S.  Nuclear Regulatory Commission rates  all four of Entergy’s nuclear sites in Column 1, the top  quintile of NRC’s performance ratings for U. S.  nuclear  facilities.   Among sources of electricity that are available at all  times, nuclear energy is the only one that delivers both  carbon-free and reliable electricity, 24 hours a day,  regardless of weather. Beyond our sizeable nuclear fleet and the capabilities  and expertise of our professionals, Entergy is well"
"positioned to evaluate new nuclear options.  Entergy  is participating in state working groups in Louisiana,  Mississippi and Texas that are evaluating the potential for  nuclear expansion in those states.  Our work in this area  supports active conversations with potential customers  on options to pursue possible new nuclear investments. We are actively exploring potential power upgrades and  license extensions at our existing nuclear facilities in  Arkansas, Louisiana and Mississippi.  In"
"2007, we were  issued an early site permit by the NRC, allowing the  potential for a new reactor at Grand Gulf, should we ever  pursue that option. We also have a memorandum of understanding with  Holtec, a global company with expertise in nuclear  energy technology, to evaluate its small modular reactors  technology for use in our service area.  We participate in  industry working groups that are evaluating other SMR  technologies and potential development opportunities. We’re also working with"
"new customers on ways to  sustainably power their operations.  In conjunction with  Meta’s planned data center in Richland Parish, Louisiana,  Entergy and Meta have committed to exploring nuclear  energy as a future power supply option alongside  renewable sources like solar and wind.  This effort  includes researching conventional nuclear technologies,  supporting small modular reactors and potential  upgrades to enhance the output of existing nuclear  plants in southeast Louisiana. Gas"
"distribution  Our gas distribution business serves more than 200,000  customers in New Orleans and Baton Rouge.  We  announced an agreement in October 2023 to sell the  gas business to Delta Utilities, a subsidiary of Bernhard  Capital Partners, a Baton Rouge-based services and  infrastructure-focused private equity management firm.   The sale of the gas business allows us to continue  to simplify operations and sharpen the focus on our  regulated electric utility business for the benefit of all"
"our  stakeholders.  The Louisiana Public Service Commission  and New Orleans City Council have approved the sale.   With additional regulatory approval provided by the East  Baton Rouge Metropolitan Council in February 2025,  the transaction is set to finalize with a switchover date   anticipated for late summer 2025.  The approximately  $484 million in proceeds from the transaction will be  used to strengthen our credit through the repayment of  debt and to support customer-centric capital"
"needs in our  growing electric utility business.    Learn more here. Did you know?  Grand Gulf’s power upgrade in 2012 made it  the largest single-unit nuclear power plant in  the country and fifth largest in the world.  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  15  our company Stakeholder engagement  Entergy’s purpose is we power life, and we are on a  mission with our stakeholders to improve lives, build  businesses and create prosperity.  To achieve this, we  are committed to open and honest"
"dialogues with all  our stakeholders, guided by Entergy’s shared values  and principles.  We recognize that active and deliberate  engagement at the levels closest to our communities  generates the goodwill and constituent support  necessary to ensure the long-term viability of our  business.  You can learn more about our approach and  who we engage here. Customers We create value by striving to deliver top-quartile  customer experience.  We work directly with customers  to anticipate their"
"needs and exceed their expectations,  while also keeping rates reasonable.   Employees We create value by advocating for our employees  to live safe, all day, every day.  We strive to earn top- quartile organizational health scores.  We provide a  rewarding, engaging and inclusive work environment  with competitive compensation and benefits, while also  providing opportunities for career advancement. Communities We are active in economic development, philanthropy,  volunteerism and community"
"advocacy, and we operate  our business safely and in a socially and environmentally  responsible way.   Owners We create value by delivering top-quartile total  shareholder returns.  We are relentless in our pursuit of  opportunities to optimize our business.   – – – Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  15   Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  16  our company Remmel Dam centennial  In April 2024, employees of Entergy and family members  of Harvey Couch, the founder of Arkansas Power & Light,"
"came together with state and local officials in Malvern,  Arkansas, to celebrate the 100th anniversary of Remmel  Dam. Festivities included a dedication recognizing  Remmel Dam’s place in Arkansas and Entergy history,  tours and a pop-up museum. Remmel is one of two  Entergy dams that originally helped bring reliable,  low-cost electrical power to the state but now also serve  multiple purposes including support to fisheries and  especially recreation and tourism. Hot Springs is a top  tourist"
"destination in the state of Arkansas, and one of the  major draws is the area lakes. The first, Lake Catherine,  was formed by the construction of Remmel Dam. Today,  power from Remmel Dam is part of the generation  portfolio for Entergy Arkansas. It’s also interconnected  to MISO, the regional transmission organization that  dispatches power to customers from available resources  in the most economic way possible. More on Entergy’s  hydroelectric operations is available here. Super Bowl"
"sustainability leadership As part of Entergy’s sponsorship of the New Orleans  Super Bowl LIX Host Committee, we led several  sustainability initiatives leading up to the big game on  Feb.  9, 2025, in New Orleans.  During the three-day  Super Bowl weekend, we created a temporary supply  plan that powered the entire city, including the Caesars  Superdome, with carbon-free electricity.  Power was  sourced from both renewable and nuclear generation  assets owned by Entergy New Orleans, plus a"
"short-term  power purchase agreement with Entergy Louisiana  for additional nuclear capacity.  We worked carefully  to ensure the power plan did not have an impact on  customers’ bills or energy supply.  While it did not result  in new carbon emissions-free capacity, the power plan  highlighted both the essential role of nuclear power and  the opportunity to work with our regulators and  stakeholders to continue cost-effectively increasing the  amount of carbon emissions-free generation we"
"provide  to our customers.   Additional Super Bowl sustainability initiatives focused on  recycling, material recovery and food waste minimization.   In early February, our employee volunteers joined those  from other companies, NFL Green and area nonprofits  to help restore the wetlands around a historic lighthouse  in Madisonville, Louisiana.  The volunteers planted 600  trees at the site, which is along Lake Pontchartrain north  of New Orleans.  And other volunteers helped the NFL  recycle or"
"donate materials and food supplies from  events associated with the Super Bowl.  More details  about our Super Bowl initiatives are available in the  corporate citizenship section of this report. – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  17  our company 2024 Stakeholder empowered transition focus areas and key performance indicators Talent pipeline Empowered  workforce Social impact Meaningful  engagement Advocacy and  partnership Retiring with  opportunity Ensuring our  communities have  the"
"skills and   experiences needed  for the emerging clean  energy economy Attract, develop  and retain a high- performing, innovative  workforce that reflects  the richness of our  communities Promote dignity,  respect and  opportunity in our  communities and  across our value chain Meeting our  communities where  they are and guiding  with insight and  empathy Partnering for our  shared transition and  building a pathway  promoting prosperity  for all Transitioning with  our workforce and"
"communities through  career and economic  development $20M commitment to  empower students at  HBCUs over 10 years 65 overall  organizational health  index score $153. 3M of  economic impact  to our communities  through grants and  volunteerism 1K customers engaged  in customer pop-up  events $1. 2B local supplier  spend KPIs in development Programs engaging  kids, students and  adults 38. 6 average annual  hours of training per  full-time employee Supply chain solar  purchase agreements"
"warranting no forced  labor Customer town halls  and fairs hosted  by every operating  company 40% suppliers by  spend engaged on  sustainability Workforce and  community transition  plans underway Stakeholder empowered transition Entergy’s service region comprises residential  customers including 40% who are living at or below the  poverty line, businesses that empower our communities,  and an economic hub of America’s industries.  Together,  we are preparing for unprecedented growth while"
"balancing customers' requests for cleaner energy.   These dynamics offer both a practical challenge and  tremendous opportunity; our transition plan must  ensure that our organization, our workforce and  our communities have the skills, investments and  capabilities they need to thrive.   – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  18  our company Customer energy savings goals Entergy offers a suite of programs designed to save customers energy and money at their homes and  businesses. Each"
"operating company has varying regulatory requirements for offering energy efficiency and  demand response programs for residential, business and large customers. The table below describes goals  each operating company uphold to reduce customers' energy consumption through energy efficiency, demand  response and peak load reduction. Operating company Goal/Time horizon Reach to low- to moderate-income customers Entergy Arkansas KWh savings based on % of sales, three years Kwh savings targeted for"
"low-income customers Entergy Mississippi MWh savings, annual reduction goals set  every three years Smart thermostat pilot targeted for low-income  customers Entergy Louisiana KW reduction goals annual or bi-annual Portion of the program allocated for low- to moderate- income customers Entergy New Orleans 2% KWh sales engaged in energy efficiency  programs; annual goals set triennially  (90,278MWh for 2025) 5 separate programs allocated to income-qualified  customers only Entergy Texas 17.4 MW"
"savings annually 5% of total savings allocated as a minimum Affordability for all As a leader in our communities for more than 100 years,  we remain committed to keeping bills low for all our  customers, especially for people struggling financially. Our business is complex and requires a dynamic and  disciplined approach to managing our customers’ energy  rates, and we do this in a variety of ways: responsible  investments in energy resources and a more resilient  grid, financing the costs of"
"storm restorations to reduce  fees for customers, and membership in the MISO regional  transmission organization to share resources with a pool  of other utilities from Canada to the Gulf Coast.   We also focus on financial discipline and initiatives that  improve the quality and efficiency of our work.  And  by bringing new businesses to our service area, we’re  supporting long-term affordability for all customers  because these new customers share in the future cost of  providing service."
"Investments in new, more efficient infrastructure also  reduce long-term customer costs by reducing waste and  avoiding downtime and expenses related to unplanned  outages.  Read more about our investments in resilience  in the Our company section of this report. Entergy also promotes energy efficiency initiatives that  help individual customers save money by reducing their  usage.  This includes energy audits, incentives, rebates  and products to make people’s homes or businesses  more energy"
"efficient.  Our Bill Toolkit, launched in 2024,  empowers customers with resources and available  assistance options to help them more easily manage their  energy bills. – – – Entergy U.S. average (12.99) (8.78) Among the lowest rates in the country Even with low rates, extreme  temperatures, energy efficiency gaps,  and other factors can drive usage – and  monthly bills – up for customers.  That’s  why Entergy promotes initiatives to  help customers reduce the amount of  electricity they use"
"and manage costs.   Some of these programs are mentioned  in the Affordability section on this  page.  More information is shared in the   customer assistance section of this  report and on entergy.com. 2024 average retail price by parent company (¢ per kWh)  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  19  our company Several important federal programs help us provide  benefits to our customers at a lower cost.  To help  maximize those benefits, a new company task force,  Leading Energy Affordability"
"for All, or LEAF, launched  in 2024.   The team works with external partners to help ensure  our communities can benefit from available funds such  as federal home energy rebates.  Rebates help families  upgrade to clean energy equipment, improve energy  efficiency and save money on their energy bills.  The  four states in our service area — Arkansas, Louisiana,  Mississippi and Texas — have an opportunity to access  $1. 1 billion in funds.   Entergy also provides the Single Stop online tool,"
"through  which all customers can confidentially screen their  eligibility for up to 21 federal and state benefits (such as  Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, food,  health, tax assistance and child care).  The site features  an interactive map where users can find a myriad of  local resources. Entergy worked with local partners and negotiated a  nearly $54 million Department of Energy Grid Resilience  and Innovation Partnership, or GRIP, award for Entergy  Texas.  The federal funding"
"will help reduce the costs of  fortifying critical infrastructure to our customers while  helping improve local communities through workforce  and economic development initiatives, as well as targeted  grants to community organizations.  The award adds to  our previous success in securing federal funding for other  projects throughout our region. In addition, two 2024 federal awards were secured by  Entergy Louisiana in partnership with Lafourche and  Ascension parishes in the Building Resilient"
"Infrastructure  and Communities program.  And we will participate in  negotiations for additional funding following the Phase  I launch of another winning BRIC project with Jefferson  Parish in 2023. Economic development Our four-state territory that includes Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and  Texas is home to the largest industrial base in the United States. It offers a  rare combination of economic resources: a central U.S. location with direct  access to raw materials and markets, a"
"favorable business climate, an  expansive infrastructure, a skilled and affordable workforce, and competitive  utility costs. In 2024, Entergy helped to attract, or expand in, our utility  service area 46 economic development projects. These projects represent  a capital investment in local communities by companies who announced  projects in Entergy's service area in 2024 of more than $53.8 billion and  5,319 new jobs. – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  20  our company Grassroots"
"engagement  Texas energy leadership summit: In April 2024, Entergy  Texas hosted the Southeast Texas Energy Leadership  Summit, where more than 200 industry, community  and political leaders talked about innovative solutions  and collaborative approaches for meeting the region’s  evolving energy needs.  Attendees got a preview of  our Southeast Texas Energy Plan.  The STEP Ahead  plan includes transmission, generation and resiliency  investments designed to strengthen the southeast Texas  power"
"grid. Customer-driven community improvements: Through  Entergy Arkansas’ Community Catalyst program,  started in 2019, we partnered with the University of  Central Arkansas’ Center for Community and Economic  Development and Mississippi State University’s John  C.  Stennis Institute of Government to host a grassroots  citizen engagement program and provide grants in  select Arkansas communities.  Since its inception,  five communities have completed the program, and  each received a $1,000 grant"
"in support of their  citizen projects.  Two other communities are in the final  stages of their 2024 projects and will soon receive  grants.  In one of the completed programs, more than  600 citizens in Magnolia, Arkansas, participated in a  communitywide survey that identified the city’s strengths  and opportunities.  The survey led to the launch of a  community brand and logo, new lighting in a square  in downtown Magnolia and a strategic workshop for  community leaders. Retiring with"
"opportunity: Entergy Arkansas is planning  replacements for coal plants scheduled for closing, as  well as developing plans to partner with community  leaders to ensure our communities share in the benefits  of our transition.  Building on Entergy’s experience with  power plant retirements, we are providing affected  employees access to resources to assist them in locating  other employment opportunities within and outside of  Entergy.  Employees interested in opportunities outside  Entergy are"
"supported, and employees who want to  retire are empowered.  For impacted communities,  Entergy is forming community engagement panels,  similar to those Entergy led when we exited the merchant  power business.   Meaningful dialogue Following the success of an inaugural meeting  in 2024, Entergy reconvened, in January 2025,  representatives of the same organizations for our  second annual sustainability stakeholder meeting.  In addition to participants from organizations with  both regional and"
"national influence, and investor  coalitions focused on corporate environmental and  social performance, the 2025 meeting included  representatives from two organizations at the  intersection of labor and sustainability. Including  these new perspectives was the direct result of  stakeholder input from the first meeting. During  the event, executive management and other  business function leaders engaged stakeholders in  substantive dialogue centered on Entergy’s growth  and the associated"
"opportunities, and challenges,  of maintaining a focus on decarbonization and its  impacts on communities and employees. Entergy  will again use this meeting as a springboard for  continued engagement over the course of the year  to ensure stakeholder input continues to be factored  into the company’s strategic planning. – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  21  our company Workforce development: Through partnerships with  educational institutions, we’re ensuring that communities  have the"
"training, tools and direction to flourish in the  emerging energy workforce.  For instance, with cyber threats  becoming more sophisticated and aggressive, robust  defense systems in the energy sector will require many  more professionals who can help safeguard critical energy  infrastructure.  In Mississippi, a $2 million grant from Entergy  will help Jackson State University empower students  with these needed skills through an innovation hub for  cybersecurity.  More information on this"
"initiative is here in  the corporate citizenship section of this report.   Entergy Arkansas and the Little Rock Regional Chamber  work collaboratively with local high schools through the  Energy Pathways Program, bringing energy-focused  curriculum, project-based learning demonstrations and  exposure to energy industry careers to Pulaski area  classrooms.  Entergy Arkansas also brings faculty externs  from University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff to Entergy facilities  for hands-on learning"
"opportunities and an understanding of  the skills needed in energy careers. Customer pop-ups An employee-driven initiative to meet customers  where they are was launched the summer of 2024  through four in-person events that together engaged  approximately 1,000 customers. A cross-functional  team of employees represented a broad scope of  Entergy’s customer-focused programs including the  newly launched online Bill Toolkit, a one-stop shop  with resources for managing energy bills. Customer"
"service representatives were on hand to answer  questions and resolve customer account issues.  Employees also provided information on available  free legal advice, shared bill pay assistance guidance,  and introduced  Kids to College, a free child savings  account that allows families to save with matching  seed funds from Entergy. Security lighting, energy  efficiency programs and electric vehicle offerings  were featured. Free energy efficiency, weatherization  kits and box fans were"
"distributed. Related activities  engaged approximately 700 additional customers by  year-end. Artificial intelligence Entergy is exploring ways we can  use artificial intelligence to provide  better service to our customers. We  recently developed an AI tool to help  contact center employees respond  to customers. Cara is an interactive  artificial intelligence tool that employees  can use while speaking with a  customer to quickly find answers to  customer questions. Using an existing"
"knowledge base, Cara uses a large- language model to generate real-time,  actionable information to contact center  employees, reducing the need for them  to manually search for answers. Cara  enables contact center employees  to improve their responsiveness to  customer questions, ensuring an  accurate and consistent experience. – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  22  our company Safety  Entergy’s primary objective is to keep everyone safe  – all day, every day.  To achieve that goal,"
"employees  follow a safety framework that has been simplified and  anchored in four basic principles: 1.  I own safety. 2.  Prevention is critical. 3.  We must always improve. 4.  Zero harm is possible. We measure our safety performance against the Edison  Electric Institute’s total recordable incident rate, or  TRIR, benchmarks.  The most recent EEI top-decile  performance is <=0. 35, and top quartile performance is  >0. 35 and <=0. 72. TRIR is the number of recordable incidents, which  include"
"accidents resulting in fatality, lost-time, restricted  duty, or medical attention, per 100 full-time equivalents. Our employees achieved a total recordable incident rate  of 0. 41 in 2024 compared with 0. 45 in 2023 and 0. 50 in  2022.  Our total recordable incident rate for contractor  workers in 2024 was 0. 42, our best ever, compared  with 0. 53 in 2023 and 0. 52 in 2022.  The combined  total recordable incident rate was 0. 41, also our best  rate ever.  This performance puts us in the top"
"quartile  when benchmarked against peers within EEI.  We include  contractors in our data, while EEI does not.  These safety  achievements are in part a result of a renewed focus on  training and a safety mindset. While achieving a record low in the number of combined  employee and contractor recordable injuries in 2024, we  continue to strive toward our primary safety objective of  keeping everyone safe — all day, every day.  Of the 89  injuries, 18 were serious injuries.  Sadly, four of those"
"were fatalities among our contractor workforce. Events  such as these are fully investigated by the contract  companies, and those companies and Entergy are  renewing efforts to ensure the safety of all workers.   Human performance and safety leadership training are  focus areas across Entergy, placing prevention at front  of mind for our workforce.  Safety training is a critical  investment we are making to protect our workers, ensure  compliance and demonstrate our commitment to the  well-"
"being of our employees.   As a result, in the company’s annual organizational  health index survey, 80% of the safety-related survey  questions have shown an improvement in employee  attitudes over the previous year, for the second year in a  row.   Putting safety first, in 2024, Entergy workers completed  two challenging restorations after hurricanes in our  region.  After Hurricane Beryl, we completed more than  470,000 work hours with only one OSHA-recordable  injury, and after Hurricane"
"Francine, a category 2 storm,  we restored power within three days to more than 90%  of customers with zero OSHA-recordable injuries. We also take steps to safeguard the safety of our  customers both during blue-sky days and when storms  come.  In July, after Beryl disrupted power for more than  252,000 of our customers, Entergy Texas opened more  than a dozen cooling stations in our service area to give  people a break from hot weather.  The company also  used both advertising and media"
"appearances featuring  public officials to urge residents to be safe around  downed power lines and while using generators. Additional safety data is available here. 2020 2024 2021 2022 2023 .45 .71 .58 .40 .50 .45 .50 .52 .51 .45 .53 .48 .41 .42 .41 Employee total recordable incident rate Contractor total recordable incident rate Combined total recordable incident rate – – – Total recordable incident rate  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  23  our company U.S. Department of Labor - HIRE Vets"
"Gold Medallion Award The U. S.  Department of Labor for the  seventh consecutive year awarded Entergy  with the HIRE Vets Medallion Award, which  honors exceptional achievement in veteran  employment. Dow Jones Sustainability North America  Index We were recognized on the 2024 Dow  Jones Sustainability North America  Index.  The DJSI is an environmental,  social and governance ranking for  corporate responsibility and sustainability  performance.  Entergy is the only company  in the electric"
"utility sector to be listed on  the index for 23 straight years. Site Selection Magazine - Top Utilities in  Economic Development For 17 consecutive years, Site Selection  magazine has recognized Entergy as  a top utility for economic growth in the  communities we serve, which include some  of the largest and most power-intensive  industries in the United States.  Economic  development is a key aspect of Entergy’s  growth story, securing projects that boost  local economies and create jobs in"
"our  four-state region of Arkansas, Louisiana,  Mississippi and Texas. EEI: Emergency response and customer  engagement honors Entergy was one of five utilities recognized  in 2024 by the Edison Electric Institute  for outstanding engagement and  partnership with corporate customers.  In  addition, EEI recently awarded us with our  50th Emergency Response Award, for  outstanding restoration efforts recognizing  the dedication and excellence of our  power restoration workers during and after"
"Hurricane Francine. New Orleans CityBusiness Empowering  Women Entergy was recognized by New Orleans  CityBusiness as an Empowering Women  honoree for our commitment to elevating  and supporting women. FORTUNE Magazine’s World’s Most  Admired Companies In addition, in 2025 Entergy was ranked  as one of the top utilities in FORTUNE  magazine’s World’s Most Admired  Companies list.  The annual survey of top  executives, directors and financial analysts  identifies the companies that command the"
"strongest reputations within their respective  industries and beyond. Awards and recognition Entergy’s sustainable business practices were highlighted recently by several  industry and other organizations.  More information about these awards and  other recognition can be found here. – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  24  Board of directors Our board of directors governs Entergy’s strategic  affairs.  The board is committed to sound principles  of corporate governance that help create"
"sustainable value for our stakeholders as we  continue to build the premier utility. The board oversees our strategic direction, overall  performance and key corporate policies.  It approves  major initiatives, advises on key financial and  business objectives and monitors our progress. Our diverse, engaged directors have the  qualifications and experience to advise our senior  executive team and support the company’s long- term priorities. Additional information on board qualifications is"
"available in this report’s governance section and  our proxy statement here. Kirk Donald Chairman of the Board, Huntington Ingalls Industries, Inc. Mount Pleasant, South Carolina An Entergy director since 2013 Age 71 Gina Adams Executive Vice President General Counsel and Secretary,   FedEx Corporation Washington, D.C. An Entergy director since 2023 Age 66 John Black Retired Audit Partner, Deloitte & Touche LLP Atlanta, Georgia An Entergy director since 2023 Age 65 Lisa Hyland Former Chief"
"Operating Officer,  EQT Midstream Services, LLC Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania An Entergy director since 2019 Age 65 Phil Fredrickson Former Executive Vice President, Conoco Phillips Arden, North Carolina An Entergy director since 2015 Age 68 John Burbank Independent Strategic Advisor and  Entrepreneur Groton, Connecticut An Entergy director since 2018 Age 61 Brian Ellis Senior Vice President and General  Counsel, Danaher Corporation Bethesda, Maryland An Entergy director since 2020 Age 59 Stu"
"Levenick Lead Director Former Group President and  Executive Office Member,  Caterpillar Inc. Naples, Florida An Entergy director since 2005 Age 72 Karen Puckett Former President and Chief  Executive Officer, Harte Hanks, Inc. Houston, Texas An Entergy director since 2015 Age 64 Drew Marsh Chair and CEO, Entergy Corporation New Orleans, Louisiana An Entergy director since 2022 Age 53 Board demographics  • Average age – 64 Directors’ ages are as of March 21, 2025. •    Average tenure – 7.7 years"
"•    3 of 10 directors are female •  2 of 10 directors are racially or ethnically diverse our leadership Experience and vision  Our senior leadership team has the experience and energy to  plan a bright future and deliver on our commitments. Experience with each of the following key qualifications is  well represented on our board: •      Operational excellence •        Sustainability •        Finance and accounting •        Risk management •       Government/legal/public policy   •"
"Technology and transformation   •       Executive leadership   •       Regulated utility/nuclear       •       Human capital management        •       Other public boards – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  25  our leadership Executive officers Entergy’s executive leadership team is dedicated to meeting  the challenges of the evolving utility industry and guiding  safe operations.  See our proxy statement for more details  about our executive officers.  Among them, our utility"
"presidents and CEOs drive the utility companies’ financial  and operational business results, customer service, safety,  planning, economic development, employee development,  and regulatory and governmental affairs. Drew Marsh Chair of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Joined Entergy in 1998 Age 53 Kimberly Fontan Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Joined Entergy in 1996 Age 52 Marcus Brown Executive Vice President and General Counsel Joined Entergy in 1995 Age 63 Jason"
"Chapman Senior Vice President, Chief Technology and   Business Services Officer Joined Entergy in 2019 Age 55 Pete Norgeot Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Joined Entergy in 2014 Age 60 Kathryn Collins Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Joined Entergy in 2020 Age 61 Anastasia Minor Chief Transformation Officer Joined Entergy in 2017 Age 55 Kimberly Cook-Nelson Executive Vice President   and Chief Nuclear Officer Joined Entergy in 1996 Age 53 Haley"
"Fisackerly President and CEO Entergy Mississippi  Joined Entergy in 1995 Age 60 Laura Landreaux President and CEO Entergy Arkansas   Joined Entergy in 2007 Age 51 John Hudson Senior Vice President, Chief  External Affairs Officer and  President of the Entergy  Charitable Foundation Joined Entergy in 2022 Age 55 Phillip May President and CEO Entergy Louisiana   Joined Entergy in 1991 Age 62 Eliecer Viamontes President and CEO Entergy Texas   Joined Entergy in 2020 Age 42 Deanna Rodriguez"
"President and CEO Entergy New Orleans   Joined Entergy in 1994 Age 60 Officers’ ages are as of March 21, 2025. – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  26  our talent and culture How we’re developing the premier workforce  Our approximately 12,000 employees reflect the rich  diversity of our communities and are ready to deliver  energy for a better future.  We’re working to provide the  training, tools and direction needed to make that future  a reality. Our human resources team focuses on"
"five drivers of  our talent and culture strategy: •     Deliver a value proposition that recruits, retains  and drives performance. •   Cultivate talent to raise organizational  performance. •        Build premier utility capability. •     Develop leaders to develop their organizations. •       Strengthen the leader-employee relationship. We foster a workforce that values a diversity of ideas,  backgrounds, perspectives and skills to encourage  inclusion and create a sense of belonging. Our"
"inclusive culture starts with the Talent and  Compensation Committee of Entergy’s board of  directors, which oversees our talent and culture strategy,  policies and practices.  The committee works to ensure  that risks and opportunities are being addressed and  receives reports on performance in this area at every  regular meeting of the board. Entergy provides equal employment opportunities to all  individuals.  We believe a top-performing, highly skilled  workforce that draws employees from a"
"wide variety of  backgrounds, experiences and perspectives allows us  to better serve our customers.   Entergy’s EEO-1 consolidated report is available here. Our compensation programs are designed to yield  outcomes that are correlated with the company’s  performance and support long-term value creation  while also meeting the challenges of competitive labor  markets, retirements and knowledge-retention needs.   Performance measures for our annual and long-term  incentive programs are designed"
"to drive employee  behaviors that serve our key stakeholders.  These  include a safety measure based on our serious injury  and fatality count and total recordable incident rate; a  talent and culture measure; a customer net promoter  score measure; and an environmental stewardship  – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  27  our talent and culture measure based on components related to climate  resilience and carbon-free generation.  For more about the  performance measures used in our"
"annual and long-term  compensation programs, please refer to our most recently  filed proxy statement.   Entergy provides competitive compensation and benefits,  including retirement and savings plans; medical, dental,  vision, long-term disability, and life insurance plans;  comprehensive paid time off for parental leave, sick leave,  short-term disability, vacation, holidays, and volunteering;  and holistic wellness programs that support the physical,  mental and financial well-being of our"
"employees. Workforce development initiatives Our workforce development initiatives focus on  partnerships with high schools, technical and community  colleges and universities, and industry associations.   These programs range from general promotion of energy  and science, technology, engineering and mathematics  careers to technical training programs that produce  graduates aligned with our staffing needs. In 2024, five strategic workforce development initiatives  were designed to encourage"
"students to become future  employees and empower educators who shape our future  leaders. The pilot Power Players program in Jackson, Mississippi,  welcomed student-athletes from Mississippi State  University football, exposing them to the company’s  landscape and facilities, providing meetings with leaders,  and discussing their career plans.    Entergy leaders and mentors engaged with Southern  University and A&M College in Baton Rouge, Louisiana,  during the Entergy Scholars Program, part of"
"our  partnership with the university that began in 2018 with a  $2 million contribution to help foster student success.  The  program provides engineering majors with the necessary  tools to pursue internships or full-time positions.   In 2023, Entergy New Orleans piloted Know Your Power,  which exposes high school students to energy industry  career paths.  In 2024, the program added a high school  teacher externship.  Five experienced teachers from  Orleans Parish schools had a two-day, job"
"shadowing  experience to gain an understanding of industry careers  and experience the work environment at Entergy New  Orleans. In 2024, the Entergy Faculty Extern Program in  Arkansas, Louisiana and Mississippi offered six STEM  educators collaborative opportunities, facility tours, job  shadowing and hands-on experiences to enhance their  understanding of energy careers and better prepare their  students.   Entergy partnered with the University of Arkansas at Pine  Bluff for Sparking STEM"
"with Entergy, a program designed  to generate interest in careers in energy and at Entergy.   More than 90 students from four middle schools, 13 UAPB  STEM majors and 16 Entergy volunteers participated in the  inaugural, one-day event.   our talent and culture – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  28  our talent and culture How we’re building premier utility capability  We provide our employees with foundational training and  professional development, along with opportunities for  career"
"growth.   In 2024, more than 120 leaders participated in the  Entergy Strategy Workshop, where participants simulated  and solved business challenges during a one-day  session for frontline supervisors and managers or a  two-day session for senior managers and above.  And  386 front-line leaders participated in the Foundational  Leadership Program, which assisted leaders in  developing their personal leadership style, enhancing  their interpersonal and communication skills, and  building"
"confidence to lead in the business. We also continued three development programs for  high-potential talent:  RISE is our emerging leader program for top individuals.   In 2024, 94 employees participated in self-assessments,  training and networking to excel in their initial roles as  managers at Entergy. Our 12-month VOLT leadership program, completed by  23 mid-level leaders, combines leadership assessments,  team building, executive interactions, mentoring and  team project assignments to"
"strengthen the leadership  pipeline and build a foundation for sustainable high  levels of performance and company growth. Power Up was completed by 18 leaders during a  12-month journey that combined field visits, executive  interactions, skills assessments and memorable  experiences.  A new summit location in Washington, D. C. ,  enhanced our leaders’ understanding and mastery of  stakeholder engagement.  This included a visit to the U. S.   Capitol to gain insights into the complexities of"
"engaging  stakeholders in the public sphere. Developing leaders to develop their organizations We’ve also introduced Mursion, a blend of AI and human  performance enablement that lets leaders practice  skills, such as difficult conversations, in a low/no stakes  environment.  More than 875 leaders have enrolled in this  immersive experience. To develop leaders who can manage strong, inclusive  teams and provide meaningful work, we conduct  programs like Team Execution Essentials, a program"
"focused on important skills for leaders, coaching of those  skills to employees, and making these skills common  language and practice across Entergy.  The program  served more than 380 leaders, 314 employees engaged  with the digital content and 493 employees supported  the team talks in 2024.   – – – Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  28   Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  29  our talent and culture Organizational health Organizational health measures how effective an  organization is at"
"working toward and accomplishing a  common goal.  Since 2014, employee feedback on our  Organizational Health Index survey has deepened our  understanding of how the behaviors that employees see  in the workplace affect our organizational health. Entergy aims to improve to first-quartile results or  better on our OHI survey by 2026.  Our current 2024  score places us in the third quartile.  More than 8,200  employees, or approximately 70%, participated in 2024. To address survey trends among our"
"trade and craft  employees, in 2024 we launched conversation guides  for trade/craft employees and their supervisors,  and we piloted a career map program to give these  employees a way to discuss career aspirations and  development opportunities. We are evolving our performance management  process to focus on enablement.  We aim to achieve  top-quartile performance and organizational health by  creating a culture that emphasizes well-being, coaching,  accountability and development. – – –"
"Strengthening the leader-employee  relationship To build toward the premier utility, we continue to  promote expectations for all employees and leaders  at Entergy. Our expectations, first adopted in 2022,  include employee behaviors that are essential for  positive stakeholder outcomes: •      Make customers more successful. •       Innovate and continually improve. •     Collaborate and share knowledge. •      Be accountable for results. •   Recognize and reward outcomes. In 2024, we executed"
"programs and processes that  keep those expectations clear when we hire, develop  and evaluate employees.  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  30  our talent and culture Inclusion assessment and programs The inclusion assessment portion of the OHI survey  measures to what extent our systems, leaders and team  members foster a welcoming and fair environment for all  employees.   Entergy’s 2024 inclusion assessment score remained  second quartile, sustaining previous gains from 2023.   Each member"
"of our senior management team  performs a deep dive into their organization’s inclusion  assessment data to identify trends and develop  customized solutions based on their results.   Based on previous organizational health and inclusion  assessments, we created three new development  programs focused on strengthening leader-employee  relationships for frontline and early career employees.   More than 50 frontline supervisors participated in All In,  a learning journey to understand inclusion,"
"practice  intentional inclusive leadership in a psychologically safe  environment and make lasting commitments to support  an inclusive culture. The Entergize program offers early career employees  guidance, mentorship and resources to navigate  the complexities of their chosen field and build a  foundation for success.  In 2024, 150 participants  completed the program including a two-day conference,  bi-monthly meetings and curriculum on how Entergy  operates, business acumen, financial"
"literacy and  personal development.   An allyship campaign launched in 2024 with voluntary  participation by company leaders.  The campaign  reinforces our dedication to a more inclusive and  supportive environment, teaching leaders and  employees to effectively support each other in the  workplace.  More than 175 senior leaders participated. Employee Resource Groups Employee resource groups are voluntary,  employee-led groups open to all employees  that foster an engaged, diverse and inclusive"
"workplace. ERGs foster opportunities to bring  about broad change by supporting programs  that benefit the company and our employees.  We recently added four new ERGs: • ASPIRE supports employees of African  descent through a variety of initiatives,  events and conversations to drive  awareness, understanding and allyship.  •   ABLE advocates for employees living with  various abilities or who are caregivers.  •   VIDA supports Hispanic employees  through networking events and  knowledge-sharing"
"programs.  • SHINE is a community of individuals  committed to elevating Asian voices and  fostering inclusivity. – – – Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  30   Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  31  We're fostering a low-carbon economy As we transform our generation portfolio to cleaner  resources, we are also delivering meaningful  environmental, social and economic value to the  communities we serve, now and in the future. We are continuing to expand our power generation fleet  to meet the"
"need of anticipated growth in our service  area — including new data centers and other large  customers — with cleaner technologies.  This strategy  supports Entergy’s commitment to achieving net-zero  emissions by 2050 and helps customers meet their own  environmental goals through the use of low- and zero- carbon power. As our industrial customers electrify their operations and  processes with our help, our positive impact on reducing  carbon emissions across the economy will increase.   We’re"
"also evaluating opportunities to reduce emissions  throughout our business in partnership with customers,  suppliers, employees and other stakeholders. Along the way, we are working with regulators, customers  and key stakeholders on ways to address the physical  risks of climate change, including improved resilience  during extreme weather and other events.  See our  discussion on resiliency in the Power Delivery section of  this report. environmental  stewardship Our progress We have achieved"
"26% toward  our 2030 goal of 50% carbon-free  capacity.  Includes all generation, utility owned and  power purchase agreements. We have achieved 29.81% toward  our 2030 goal of 50% emission  rate reduction.  Includes all generation, utility owned and  controlled and market purchases. More information on our path forward toward  our long-term commitment to net-zero emissions  is on page 33. Details on our other emissions  reductions are provided on page 34. – – –  Progress toward our 2050 net-"
"zero  commitment Entergy’s 2030 goal and historical results include emissions  from both utility-owned assets and all types of purchased  power.  CO2 emission rate of top 20   privately-/investor-owned power producers We operate one of the cleanest large-scale power generation fleets  in the country, as noted in the independent Benchmarking Air  Emissions Report and illustrated in this chart of the carbon dioxide  emission rate of the top 20 privately- or investor-owned U.S. power  producers."
"Entergy Pounds per MWh U.S. power sector average 400 800 1,200 1,130 852 793 565 2050 Net-zero goal 2000 2010 2024 2030 U.S. average presented through 2023 Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  32  environmental stewardship Climate strategy Entergy is committed to achieving net-zero emissions  by 2050.  Our net-zero goal is inclusive of all scopes, all  applicable greenhouse gases and all businesses.  Our  path assumes continued technology advancements and  marries Entergy’s climate objectives"
"with those of our  customers.  On our journey to net-zero, we have interim  goals to measure our progress. We are uniquely positioned to accelerate the transition  to a low-carbon economy by investing in low- to zero- carbon power sources and magnifying our impact by  collaborating with customers and suppliers to reduce  their emissions.  Our regional economy and the demand  for clean energy are growing.  Sustainable investments  by us, which are increasingly being driven by demand  from our"
"customers as well as our investors and other  stakeholders, will ensure that this growth is increasingly  powered by cleaner energy and results in substantial  reductions in greenhouse gas emissions across the  economy.  This clean growth can attract jobs, enhance  economic development opportunities and improve  overall quality of life in our region. – – –  Clean energy transition technologies (illustrative) Our plan to achieve net-zero carbon emissions includes cleaner, low-carbon-emitting and"
"carbon-free technologies ranging  from those that exist today to those that are maturing. This chart provides an illustrative view of a potential timeline for  adopting these technologies. Additionally, our plan includes ceasing use of coal by the end of 2030.  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  33  environmental stewardship Sustainable growth: opportunity and challenge Due to stronger than initially expected sales growth,  necessitating the development of new generation  capacity that is"
"cleaner but not carbon-free, Entergy  expects that our 50% carbon-free energy-generating  capacity goal will be delayed for an as-yet undetermined  period beyond 2030.  In addition, while current planning  assumptions indicate the 2030 emission rate goal  remains achievable, its achievement could also be  challenged if demand increases beyond the current  forecast and supply plan.  Despite these challenges,  Entergy’s long-term commitment to net-zero emissions  remains unchanged. Currently"
"unknown 2030 2040 Known and proven End of use Cease using coal Existing nuclear and power upgrades Nuclear with license renewal Solar Battery energy storage system Gas with H₂ capability Wind CCS Small modular reactors (nuclear) H₂ power generation Long duration storage Advanced gen, zero carbon resources Expected to be viable Carbon capture  Cleaner natural gas plants are a  key component of our generation  transition strategy.  See our  discussion on carbon capture  technology in the power"
"generation  section of this report. Increasing renewables  Our plan to achieve net-zero  emissions by 2050 includes more  than 5,000 MW of renewable  capacity by the end of 2028. – – – Refining our path to net zero We engage internal experts on  each category of our greenhouse  gas inventory to understand their  processes for: • Emission data collection and  management. • Monitoring advancements in  technology that may reduce emissions. • The future trajectory of emissions. • The potential to"
"establish interim  goals. Based on this engagement, we evaluate  progress and consider establishing  additional near- or medium-term interim  goals. Along with our current carbon-free  energy capacity and carbon dioxide  emission rate goals, these would help  our stakeholders understand our  progress toward achieving our net-zero  commitment. We’re investing in carbon-free and  carbon-managed technologies, as  described in the Our company section  of this report. Entergy will continue to  report"
"on projected milestones as our  long-term plan continues to adapt to  changing customer demand and market  circumstances.  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  34  environmental stewardship Reducing our emissions Since 2000, our investments in clean energy  capacity for our utility business have resulted in the  following reductions for the entire company: GOAL: Based on current planning, by 2030 our  absolute emissions from oxides of nitrogen and  sulfur dioxide are expected to be 90% below 2000"
"levels, and mercury emissions are expected to be  near zero. Our carbon dioxide reduction goal is 50%  reduction in utility emission rate by 2030 compared  with 2000 levels and net-zero emissions by 2050. ↓31%  Our CO2 emission  rate was reduced  by 31%.  ↓87% Our SO2 emission  rate was reduced   by 87%. ↓81%  Our NOx   emission rate was  reduced by 81%.  ↓97% Our mercury  emission rate was  reduced by 97%. ↓21% Our absolute CO2  emissions were  reduced by 21%.  ↓84%  Our absolute SO2  emissions"
"were  reduced by 84%.  ↓78%  Our absolute NOx  emissions were  reduced by 78%.  ↓96% Our absolute  mercury  emissions were  reduced by 96%. Governance  Entergy’s environmental, occupational health and  safety policy helps ensure regulatory compliance  and drives performance excellence and continuous  improvement throughout the company.  The policy  details what we expect for inclusion, accountability,  incident prevention, corrective action, environmental  stewardship, risk and compliance"
"management,  stakeholder engagement, goal-setting and continuous  improvement.  We validate our management system and  environmental performance through third-party audits  and provide transparency through regular performance  reporting to our board. The policy reflects Entergy’s work to restore a single  environmental, occupational health and safety policy.  It  reaffirms our commitment to being an industry leader  in environmental, health and safety performance by  proactively, responsibly and"
"sustainably managing our  business operations to protect our employees, contract  partners, customers and the communities we serve. Our environmental management vision statement and  supporting policies and procedures can be found here.   Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  34 – – –  40% 80% 120% 83% 115% 77% 76% 78% 115% 77% 76% 78% 81% 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  35  environmental stewardship Grassroots sustainability champions One way our employees lead the"
"way in environmental  advocacy is through the Grassroots Sustainability  Champions program.  The team has grown to more  than 150 Entergy employees since it launched in 2022.   They engage with their peers, work groups and internal  networks to increase participation in environmentally  conscious initiatives. In 2024, the group piloted a challenge to reduce  single-use plastics.  The month-long challenge provided  100 employee participants with tips and alternatives.   The champions also hosted"
"guest speakers to educate  employees on ways to reduce waste and build a  sustainable future by reducing Scope 3 emissions  and through home composting.  Throughout the year,  the champions also created guides for employees  on sustainable and eco-living, shopping and holiday  planning, and promoted employee participation in  volunteerism dedicated to sustainability throughout  Entergy’s service area. Water quality management We work to reduce water used in our operations while  evaluating water"
"availability and ensuring compliance  with federal, state and local permits and requirements.   An overview of our water management strategy is  available here. We protect water resources by maintaining a compliance  rate with state and federal permit requirements of at least  99. 9% from year to year.  In 2024, our compliance rate was  99. 97%.  Our portfolio transformation strategy reduces  water usage across our fleet as our power generation  plants are more efficient and we increase"
"renewables,  which generally use no water.   Waste minimization and management We manage waste responsibly for the benefit of the  environment and our communities.  To address waste  management and minimization, Entergy maintains  a standard that outlines our basic philosophy and  expectations.  We reduce waste through our commodity  recycling and investment recovery process.  We manage  coal ash for beneficial use at a rate dependent on local  construction markets, as detailed below. 2024 water"
"compliance rate 99.97% We protect water resources by  maintaining a compliance rate with  state and federal permit requirements  of at least 99. 9% from year to year. Percentage of coal combustion byproduct managed  for beneficial use Entergy’s coal ash beneficial use rate varies depending on the local  construction markets. With demand for these products greater than  ash produced in 2020, we used previously placed ash and blended  it with current production ash to create oil stabilization"
"products.  That means Entergy managed more than 100% of our coal ash for  beneficial use in 2020. – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  36  environmental stewardship Biodiversity Our Commitment to Biodiversity describes our strategy  to support, conserve and restore biodiversity habitat,  wetlands and local natural resources.   Since 2011, we have created a more avian-friendly  environment by retrofitting older distribution lines that have  documented avian impacts, implementing new"
"distribution  avian construction standards and replacing insulators  on transmission structures.  Our avian wildlife protection  standard can be viewed here. In Arkansas, Entergy uses renewable hydropower from  the Ouachita River to generate electricity.  We manage  more than 9,000 acres of property around Lake Catherine  and Lake Hamilton.  These two lakes created by Remmel  and Carpenter dams provide habitat for animals that  live in or near water and recreational activities for local"
"residents and visitors.  Our obligation through licensing  by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission includes  maintaining the lakes and the surrounding area’s scenic,  environmental and aesthetic attributes to standards similar  to national parks.  See more about the dams in the Our  Company section of this report. Injured bald eagle recovers and  returns to habitat In March 2024, an injured adult bald  eagle was discovered at the J. Wayne  Leonard Power Station in Louisiana.  Through swift"
"action by plant staff, local  wildlife authorities and conservationists,  the eagle was safely rescued and  placed under professional care.  Following diligent rehabilitation with  Wings of Hope in Livingston, Louisiana,  and the Louisiana State University  School of Veterinary Medicine, the  eagle recovered and was released back  into the wild four months later.  – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  37  environmental stewardship Protecting natural resources Entergy is enhancing"
"biodiversity, storm and flood protection, and carbon mitigation through partnerships  that support wetlands restoration and reforestation.  Our Environmental Initiatives Fund supports projects or  programs that reduce emissions, protect natural resources, and restore wetlands and forests in communities  Entergy serves.  In 2024, Entergy shareholders contributed $1 million to partnering organizations through the  fund.  This was the 24th consecutive year that owners provided support to the fund,"
"with a total investment of  $43. 8 million since the program launched in 2001.  A list of 2024 EIF grant award recipients is available here.   Some examples are: Audubon Nature Institute •        Support in New Orleans for the Party for the Planet  series and to eliminate the use of portable diesel  generators in Woldenberg Riverfront Park. Big Thicket Biosphere Reserve  •     Support for four butterfly migration gardens,  classroom workshops and community programs in  southeast Texas.   Lake"
"Hamilton Fire and Rescue •        Funding for emergency response equipment and  supplies for lakes Catherine and Hamilton in Arkansas,  enabling Lake Hamilton Fire to help protect the  biodiversity of the lakes by responding to over 23 calls  for service. Mississippi Wildlife Rehabilitation  •    Funding to help construct the Valery E.  Smith Nature  Center in north Mississippi, including a raptor garden  with newly designed enclosures, a native plant garden  to attract and support local birds"
"and pollinators, a  dedicated box turtle habitat, and live animal exhibits  that offer insight into MWR’s mission to rescue,  rehabilitate and release native wildlife.   Woodlands Conservancy •      Funding to Pheasants Forever to complete habitat  restoration including prescribed fires and overstory  reduction for bobwhite quail in Louisiana.   Environmental Initiatives Fund  contributions $43.8M  Total EIF contributions since program  inception in 2001. – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report"
"|  38  environmental stewardship A sustainable procurement and supply chain Entergy’s procurement and supply chain team supports  our focus on reducing our own emissions and those of  our customers.  We manage an annual spend portfolio  of $5 billion to $7 billion, with an emphasis on working  with local suppliers who are qualified to meet our  standards.  In 2024, we worked with more than 1,100  suppliers in states where Entergy operates.  Those local  suppliers accounted for more than $1. 2"
"billion, or nearly  23%, of our managed spend.  These suppliers support  all areas of our business including power generation,  power delivery, nuclear generation and indirect spend  departments. We ask key suppliers to complete a third-party verified  assessment of their own sustainability processes,  including their management of air, water and waste,  and compliance with human rights standards.  In 2024,  companies that completed our sustainability assessment  represented approximately 40% of"
"our total spend. We and our suppliers continue to manage supply  chain disruptions due to operational, geopolitical,  economic, environmental and social challenges.  We  expect suppliers to align with our human rights and  environmental standards.  That means, among other  things, suppliers attesting they are not delivering  materials produced in areas suspected to use  forced labor. Sustainability assessments 39.11% of managed spend went to  suppliers who completed  sustainability assessments."
"73  suppliers completed  sustainability assessments. *In-state spending with suppliers manufacturing goods and providing  services from within our service territory. Recycling and investment  recovery Our procurement and supply chain  team also works to recycle and  recover the value of materials that  otherwise might end up in landfills.  In 2024, we recycled more than  782,529 gallons of transformer  oil and over 23 million pounds of  various metals. We also sell surplus  assets and return the"
"proceeds to  our utility operating companies. This  benefits customers by offsetting  operations costs that are included in  our customer rates. In 2024, invest- ment recovery totaled $13.6 million.  Our cumulative sales of surplus  assets over the past four years total  more than $43 million. More information about sustainability  in Entergy’s procurement and supply  chain is available here. – – – $1,500M $1,200M $900M $600M $300M $1,300M $1,280M 2022 2023 2024 $1,078M $1,210M 2021 Local"
"spending* 1,182 local suppliers 22.74% of managed spend $1,210 million local spending  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  39  Empowering our communities  Giving back to our communities, and empowering them, is at the  core of our corporate mission.  In 2024, our focus on corporate social  responsibility made a meaningful difference in the lives of our customers  and communities, resulting in an economic impact of $153. 52 million  across our service area.  Our dedicated employees were vital to"
"this  success, contributing more than 122,000 hours of volunteer service,  valued at $4. 09 million.   Through strategic partnerships with our community advocates, we  implemented a range of initiatives aimed at addressing poverty,  promoting education and workforce development, providing financial  assistance to vulnerable customers, improving our communities and  caring for the environment. Together, we are fostering strong, healthy and vibrant communities.   Named a top-50 most  community-"
"minded company For the ninth year, Entergy has been  named an honoree of The Civic 50,  Points of Light’s prestigious annual  list that recognizes the top  companies for employee  volunteerism and community  investment in the United States.  Entergy was also recognized as the  2024 Utilities Sector Leader for the  second year in a row.  We are proud of our employees,  who volunteered more than  122,000 hours in 2024 to serving our  communities and creating a brighter  future for all.  – – –"
"corporate  citizenship  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  40  corporate citizenship 2024 Program value Philanthropy. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  $18. 23 million Volunteerism. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  $4. 09 million LIHEAP* / Financial assistance. .  .  .  .  $74 million  The Power to Care . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  $2. 2 million Earned Income Tax Credit/VITA. .  .  .  $55 million Total. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ."
".  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $153.52 million $55 million in federal tax refunds  returned to Entergy customers in 2024 44,259 returns filed 9,604 EITC returns filed $21 million EITC refunds $55 million total refunds 140 VITA sites sponsored 62 employees certified as basic or advanced  tax preparers  $64.5 million impact from economic multiplier  applied to total refunds Bill assistance for our customers in need With 40% of our 3 million residential customers living in poverty,"
"Entergy is committed to making a difference in the communities  we serve.  When temperatures soared last summer, we donated  $3 million to help our low-income customers become more  energy efficient and save money on their energy bills.   Through Entergy’s Beat the Heat program, our customers  received bill payment assistance, fans, energy efficiency  kits, home weatherization and invaluable support from local  community partners.  Through this program, we: •      Raised more than $2. 8 million"
"in funds from Entergy  shareholders, employees and customers to The Power  to Care program, which provides emergency energy bill  assistance to older adults and customers with disabilities. •  Provided 3 million customers free access to Single Stop,  an online resource that connected more than 10,000  Entergy customers with $75 million in federal, state and  local benefits. •       Awarded more than $83,250 in grants to vulnerable  customers to provide free resources like electric fans  and"
"energy efficiency kits to help them beat high  temperatures and save on electricity bills throughout the  summer. •      Donated $25,000 to local organizations that weatherized  homes for customers in need. • Held customer engagement fairs in underserved  communities, providing customers with assistance and  resources to help manage their bills, energy efficiency  kits, pro bono legal aid, Kids to College savings accounts  and more. •   Launched our new Bill Toolkit that connects our  customers"
"to bill management, energy efficiency and  financial assistance resources.  This new resource helps  customers explore simple ways they can lower their  electricity use and costs. Free tax preparation for our customers For more than 15 years, we have provided free tax preparation  for our low-to-moderate-income customers at Volunteer Income  Tax Assistance sites across our service area in Arkansas,  Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas.  Every year, our IRS-certified  employees help customers file"
"their taxes and access valuable  information on tax credits and deductions they are eligible for,  maximizing their tax refunds.   In 2024, Entergy helped low-to-moderate-income customers  receive $55 million in federal tax refunds.  Of that amount,  $21 million were Earned Income Tax Credits.  The EITC is one  of the nation’s most effective means of lifting Americans out  of poverty.    Since 2009, our support of VITA sites has helped return $333  million to nearly 200,000 customers in our"
"service area. 34.2%  community improvement 27.9%  education and workforce development 17.0%  poverty solutions/social services 9.5%  healthy families  7.6%   environmental 3.2%  arts and culture 0.5%  disaster recovery 2024 Philanthropy $18.23 million  invested – – – *Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  41  corporate citizenship Our pro bono services Since 2012, Entergy has offered a pro bono legal  program dedicated to empowering our community"
"members.  We provide a wide range of free legal  services, underscoring our commitment to social  responsibility.  In 2018, Entergy was one of the first U. S.   companies to hire full-time pro bono counsel, and today  remains one of only three such companies. Through these pro bono initiatives, our attorneys and  staff collaborate with legal aid nonprofits to deliver  vital legal advice and representation in various areas,  including life-planning documents for first responders,  FEMA claims"
"following natural disasters, access to  veterans benefits, family law, post-conviction relief  for survivors of domestic violence, and support for  nonprofits as well as minority- and women-owned small  businesses.   In 2024, Entergy’s legal department contributed  more than 4,900 hours of community service.  Legal  professionals within the company dedicated over 1,700  hours specifically to legal pro bono work, assisting  more than 1,900 individuals through representation and  outreach — an in-"
"kind donation valued at $515,000 to  our community.  For more than a decade, our dedicated  legal team has provided nearly 23,000 hours of pro  bono services, amounting to more than $6. 1 million in  value.  Last year, we also hosted Pro Bono Service Day,  where legal professionals from across our service areas  in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas came  together to support low-income individuals facing critical  legal challenges.   Additionally, in collaboration with the Edison"
"Electric  Institute and the Pro Bono Institute, we organized  EmPOWERING Pro Bono Day, an industrywide initiative  that brought together volunteer attorneys and legal staff  from electric and gas companies to address the legal  needs of underserved communities.  Entergy volunteers,  including 24 attorneys and 14 staff members, assisted  132 members of our community through pro bono  legal assistance with expungements, family law, wills,  notarization and other legal matters. Supporting our local"
"HBCUs Through Entergy’s The Power of Prosperity program, we  support Historically Black Colleges and Universities and  students through academic scholarships, facility grants  and endowments, workforce development programming,  internship experiences, access to resources and financial  aid and generational wealth building. The Power of Prosperity, initially announced in 2023 in  New Orleans, aims to break down barriers to student  success and equip students with the knowledge and  tools to build"
"multigenerational wealth.   In 2024, we announced a 10-year, $20 million  commitment to elevate and empower HBCUs and their  students across our company’s service area in Arkansas,  Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas.   Through this commitment, our goal is to help students  graduate on time, with minimal debt and equipped with  an investment account and the ability to build financial  stability.  By investing in our HBCU students, we are  investing in the next generation of leaders who will  – – –"
"Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  42  corporate citizenship shape our communities, drive innovation and bring about  positive change. Fostering a legacy of philanthropy  We partnered with the New Orleans Super Bowl LIX  Host Committee, the New Orleans Saints, the NFL  Foundation and other philanthropic organizations to  create a charitable legacy program, Impact 59 Powered  by Entergy.  The community-focused initiative benefited  Greater New Orleans area nonprofit organizations ahead  of Super"
"Bowl LIX, held Feb.  9, 2025, in the city. Through the program, we awarded over $3. 5 million in  impactful grants to local nonprofit organizations, making  a positive impact in the Greater New Orleans community,  fostering a legacy of philanthropy that lasts long after  Super Bowl LIX.  Read more about our support for the  Super Bowl in the stakeholder engagement section of  this report. Partnerships in workforce development  In 2024, the Entergy Charitable Foundation pledged  $2 million to"
"Jackson State University to help fund  creation of the Critical Power Grid Network Security  Lab.  The lab will focus on cybersecurity in the nuclear,  energy and natural gas sectors and will provide students  with real-world experience safeguarding critical power  grid assets.  The goal of the lab is to equip students with  valuable technical skills and contribute significantly to  society by fostering a workforce prepared to protect vital  national infrastructure. This partnership will create"
"an innovation hub to help  train a highly skilled cybersecurity workforce to meet  the growing needs of nuclear, electric and natural gas  companies, and electrical cooperatives.  By investing  in education and fostering inclusion, we are not only  building a diverse workforce, we are investing in the  heart of the communities where we live, work and serve. Advocating for vulnerable customers  In 2024, representatives from Entergy, alongside our  community partners and customers, joined"
"advocates in  Washington, D. C. , to participate in LIHEAP Action Day.   This national event, organized by the National Energy  and Utility Affordability Coalition, serves to engage and  educate policymakers about the critical importance  of the federal Low Income Home Energy Assistance  Program for our vulnerable customers and communities. Beyond LIHEAP Action Day, Entergy hosts multiple  outreach events throughout the year in close  collaboration with our community partners.  These events"
"increase awareness of available funds and provide  valuable support to individuals navigating the LIHEAP  application process. Recognized as Citizens Award  Finalist for High Bill Relief Campaign The U.S. Chamber of Commerce  Foundation recognized Entergy as a  finalist for the 2024 Citizens Award in the  category of Best Economic Opportunity  and Empowerment Program. This annual  award highlighted 30 companies that  demonstrate exceptional leadership in  addressing the world’s most pressing"
"challenges.  Entergy earned this recognition for  our summer high bill relief campaign,  which was launched in response to the  unprecedented challenges our customers  faced during the hottest summer on  record in 2023. – – – $74M in LIHEAP  assistance payments  resulted in $200K bills  paid and disconnects  avoided for 110K  customers.  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  43  Accountability in everything we do We follow sound principles on our path to becoming the  premier utility that allow us"
"to deliver on our commitment  to providing sustainable value for all our stakeholders. Our values At Entergy, our core values – which underpin every  action we take – are safety, teamwork, always learning,  integrity and respect. Our Code of Entegrity is not just a set of rules – it’s the  embodiment of our collective commitment to ethical  conduct, fair business practices and steadfast integrity.   We expect every Entergy employee to know and  follow the code.  It reinforces our values and"
"behavioral  expectations, summarizes key company policies and  provides the tools and resources to ensure it’s all easily  understood and applied in our daily work. The Code offers clear direction around reporting known,  suspected or potential violations of law and policy, and it  explains Entergy’s zero-tolerance policy for retaliation.   Employees receive regular training and communications  to help them understand Entergy’s ethical expectations,  and all nonbargaining employees annually"
"acknowledge  their review of the Code. Sharing our values doesn’t end at the Code of Entegrity.   We have codes of business conduct for temporary  workers and suppliers.  We provide education for our  employees on various ethics and compliance topics.  We  also identify applicable laws, regulations and policies  and risks of non-compliance, and then we decrease  those risks through preventive and detective measures  and corrective action. Employees can raise concerns and seek guidance  from"
"Entergy’s leaders, the Ethics and Compliance  team, the nuclear Employee Concerns program and  the Entergy Ethics Line, which can accept concerns  anonymously.  Certain concerns, including alleged  violations of company policy or law, must be reported  through the Ethics Line, in accordance with the Entergy  System Reporting Violations Policy.  The Entergy Ethics  Line is available to employees, contractors, customers  and other members of the public.  All matters reported  to the Ethics Line"
"are promptly reviewed, assigned to  the appropriate work group and investigated by trained  personnel when appropriate.  Concerns are handled  governance – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  44  governance in a confidential manner to the extent possible, and we do  not tolerate retaliation for asking a question or reporting a  potential violation of law or Entergy policies. Entergy’s Discrimination & Harassment Prevention Policy  extends further than the law, prohibiting harassment,"
"intimidation, coercion, bullying and other types of abusive  conduct.  Our goal is to maintain a work environment that  is inclusive and recognizes the dignity and worth of every  individual, regardless of individual characteristics. More information about our values and ethics is available  here. The board’s role in governance Entergy’s board of directors is led by our chair and chief  executive officer and our independent lead director, with  independent directors chairing each board standing"
"committee.  The board’s leadership structure provides a  balance between independent oversight of management  and efficient, unified leadership.  The board has an executive  committee and five standing committees – audit, corporate  governance, talent and compensation, finance, and nuclear  and operations oversight. The board is actively and regularly engaged in the  development of Entergy’s climate strategy and consideration  of climate change-related risks and opportunities, due to  the many"
"implications for the company’s overall business  strategy.  Our board and its talent and compensation  committee oversee our people strategy and hold senior  management accountable for our corporate culture.  And  each of the board’s standing committees has responsibility  for sustainability risks and issues within its area of expertise. Sustainability governance and management The corporate governance committee is responsible for  oversight of the company’s sustainability program and  strategy,"
"policies and practices.  This committee works to  ensure that recognized sustainability risks and opportunities  are being addressed by the full board or an appropriate  board committee.  They also oversee the company’s  sustainability strategy. Stakeholder feedback and engagement help us create  strategic, forward-thinking plans and promote sustainable  practices throughout our organization.  We engage in many  ways as described here.  Specific information on our annual  advocacy and political"
"activity and accountability can be  found here. Our board’s and management team’s understanding of the  interests and perspectives of our shareholders is a key  part of our corporate governance strategy.  We approach  shareholder engagement as an integrated, year-round  process.  It involves senior managers from our investor  relations team, our corporate governance team, our human  resources team, our sustainability and environmental policy  group, and in some instances our lead director. The"
"perspectives provided by our shareholders informed our  decision-making and helped guide our actions in continuing  to enhance our environmental, social and governance  disclosures, and our disclosures related to our board of  directors. Sustainability reporting Our sustainability and environmental policy team manages  our sustainability disclosures by further engaging with  regulators, industry organizations and investors for  benchmarking and continuous improvement opportunities. The team also"
"maintains an internal network of subject  matter experts on sustainability initiatives.  This network  includes a sustainability leadership team representing all  aspects of our company.  The team collaborates to help  identify future opportunities and ensure alignment of  sustainability strategies across the company. Risk management strategy In 2024, we continued to emphasize measuring our  company’s risks.  Our focus has consistently been on  objective, measurable information versus"
"qualitative results.   This type of risk management scoring allows us to effectively  track our risks over time and provides us with information  on how well our company is managing them, supporting our  efforts to appropriately allocate resources on behalf of our  stakeholders. Our risk management goal is to evolve to a best-in-class  approach that is supportive of our companywide goal  of building toward the premier utility.  This approach will  continue to allow us to deliver value for our"
"key stakeholders,  including enhancing our external stakeholder communication  and driving alignment around the importance of customer  outcomes.  For more information, our risk management  strategy is detailed here. – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  45  governance – – – Security strategy Entergy continues to operate a three-lines security risk  management strategy with comprehensive safeguards  in place to ensure the safety and security of our workers,  assets and data.  In 2024, this"
"strategy took on even  greater significance as a result of: •      Nation-state and other cybersecurity threats  resulting from geopolitical conflicts and terrorism  including the Russia-Ukraine war, China-Taiwan  and the Israel-Hamas conflict. •     Criminal efforts at credential theft and brand/ domain hijacking targeting Entergy employees  and customers for fraud and system intrusion  purposes. • Increasingly sophisticated attacks targeted at our  industry’s networks and power delivery"
"facilities. •        Increasing attacks against the supply chain and  third parties supporting our industry, as well as  technology equipment production and shipping  delays caused by military conflicts and other  international disruptions. More information on our information technology and  security strategy is available here.  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  46  2024 financial  highlights Our 2024 adjusted earnings per share was $3. 65, in the top half of our  guidance range.  Our"
"predictable financial results are the result of our efforts  to create value for our four key stakeholders – our customers, employees,  communities and owners.  We are investing in our power delivery system to  improve reliability and resilience, and we are expanding our clean, modern  generation to support rapidly growing industrial load and the decarbonization  goals of our customers.  Our customer-centric approach has delivered benefits  for all our stakeholders.  We are confident that this"
"approach will continue to  create meaningful value well into the future. – – – Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  46   Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  47  2024 financial highlights  Credit ratings as of March 21, 2025 Comparison of five-year cumulative return The following graph compares the performance of the common  stock of Entergy Corporation with the Philadelphia Utility Index and  the S&P 500 Index (each of which includes Entergy Corporation)  for the last five years ended Dec.  31."
"Assumes $100 invested at the closing price on Dec.  31, 2019, in Entergy  Corporation common stock, the Philadelphia Utility Index, and the S&P 500 Index,  and reinvestment of all dividends. Source: Bloomberg $100 $150 $200 2022 2021 2020 2019 S&P 500 UTY ETR 2023 2024 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 ETR $100. 00 $86. 29 $101. 07 $104. 64 $96. 28 $153. 26 UTY $100. 00 $102. 72 $121. 46 $122. 25 $111. 05 $134. 24 S&P   500 $100. 00 $118. 39 $152. 34 $124. 73 $157.48 $196. 85 Moody’s Standard &"
"Poor’s RATING OUTLOOK RATING OUTLOOK Entergy Arkansas A2 Stable A Stable Entergy Louisiana A2 Stable A Stable Entergy Mississippi A2 Stable A Stable Entergy New Orleans Baa2 Stable BBB Stable Entergy Texas A3 Stable A Stable SERI Baa2 Stable BBB+ Stable Entergy Corp Baa2 Stable BBB+ Stable 2024 total shareholder returns 55.9% 20.9% 25.0% ETR UTY S&P – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  48  2024 financial highlights  2024 2023 2022 Operating revenues in thousands Electric  $11,627,732"
"$11,842,454 $13,186,845 Natural gas 178,070 180,490 233,920 Other 73,851 124,468 343,472 TOTAL 11,879,653 12,147,412 13,764,237 Other income (deductions) Allowance for equity funds used during construction 133,046 98,493 72,832 Interest and investment income (loss) 298,865 162,726 (75,581) Miscellaneous - net (489,970) (201,013) (77,629) TOTAL (58,059) 60,206 (80,378) Operating expenses Operation and maintenance: Fuel, fuel-related expenses, and gas purchased for resale 2,256,874 2,801,580"
"3,732,851 Purchased power 839,236 968,036 1,561,544 Nuclear refueling outage expenses 147,019 150,147 156,032 Other operation and maintenance 2,898,237 2,898,213 3,038,459 Asset write-offs, impairments, and related charges (credits) 107,134 42,679 (163,464) Decommissioning 220,080 206,674 224,076 Taxes other than income taxes 752,948 755,574 733,538 Depreciation and amortization 2,013,168 1,845,003 1,761,023 Other regulatory charges (credits) - net (6,133) (138,469) 669,403 TOTAL 9,228,563"
"9,529,437 11,713,462 OPERATING INCOME 2,651,090 2,617,975 2,050,775 Consolidated income statements (unaudited)         for the years ended Dec.  31,  – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  49  2024 financial highlights  Consolidated income statements (continued) 2024 2023 2022 Interest expense in thousands Interest expense $1,203,588 $1,046,164 $940,060 Allowance for borrowed funds used during construction (52,768) (39,758) (27,823) TOTAL 1,150,820 1,006,406 912,237 Income before income"
"taxes 1,442,211 1,671,775 1,058,160 Income taxes 381,027 (690,535) (38,978) Consolidated net income 1,061,184 2,362,310 1,097,138 Preferred dividend requirements of subsidiaries and noncontrolling interests 5,594 5,774 (6,028) Net income attributable to Entergy Corporation $1,055,590  $2,356,536 $1,103,166 Earnings per average common share: Basic $2.47 $5. 57 $2. 70 Diluted $2.45 $5. 55 $2. 68 Basic average number of common shares outstanding 427,713,121 423,139,862 408,900,708 Diluted average"
"number of common shares outstanding 431,581,696 424,752,990 411,095,156 for the years ended Dec.  31,  See notes to financial statements in our 2024 form 10-K. Entergy executed a two-for-one forward stock split that was effective  with trading on December 13, 2024. All periods presented have been  retroactively adjusted to reflect the two-for-one stock split. – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  50  2024 financial highlights  Consolidated statements of comprehensive income (unaudited) 2024"
"2023 2022 in thousands Net income $1,061,184 $2,362,310 $1,097,138 Other comprehensive income Cash flow hedges net unrealized gain — — 1,035 Pension and other postretirement plan changes  (net of tax expense of $54,711, $9,248, and $46,789) 205,229 29,294 146,893 Net unrealized investment loss  (net of tax benefit of $—, $—, and ($2,231)) — — (7,154) Other comprehensive income 205,229 29,294 140,774 Comprehensive income 1,266,413 2,391,604 1,237,912 Preferred dividend requirements of"
"subsidiaries and noncontrolling interests 5,594 5,774 (6,028) Comprehensive income attributable to Entergy Corporation $1,260,819 $2,385,830 $1,243,940 See notes to financial statements in our 2024 form 10-K. for the years ended Dec.  31,  – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  51  2024 financial highlights  2024 2023 2022 Operating activities in thousands Consolidated net income  $1,061,184 $2,362,310 $1,097,138 Adjustments to reconcile consolidated net income to net cash flow provided by"
"operating activities:     Depreciation, amortization, and decommissioning, including nuclear fuel amortization  2,443,562 2,244,479 2,190,371     Deferred income taxes, investment tax credits, and non-current taxes accrued 320,705 (707,822) (47,154)     Asset write-offs, impairments, and related charges (credits) 107,134 42,679 (163,464)     Pension settlement charge 319,675 — —     Changes in working capital:           Receivables 3,056 101,801 (157,267)           Fuel inventory 21,898 (45,166)"
"6,943          Accounts payable 111,839 (135,048) (102,013)          Taxes accrued 22,893 10,122 4,263           Interest accrued 45,357 18,933 4,113           Deferred fuel costs 182,578 759,361 (393,746)          Other working capital accounts (19,177) (210,038) (157,235)     Changes in provisions for estimated losses 43,493 (68,631) 374,079      Changes in regulatory assets 378,514 435,877 576,859      Changes in other regulatory liabilities 660,559 463,805 (266,559)     Effect of"
"securitization on regulatory asset — (491,150) (941,035)     Changes in pension and other postretirement funded status (469,721) (610,479) (699,261)     Other (745,039) 123,295 1,259,458  Net cash flow provided by operating activities 4,488,510 4,294,328 2,585,490  Consolidated statements of cash flows (unaudited)  for the years ended Dec.  31,  – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  52  2024 financial highlights  2024 2023 2022 Investing activities in thousands Construction/capital"
"expenditures (4,838,339) (4,440,652) (5,065,126) Allowance for equity funds used during construction 133,046 98,493 72,832 Nuclear fuel purchases (309,437) (270,973) (223,613) Payment for purchase of plant and assets (821,934) (35,094) (106,193) Net proceeds (payments) from sale of assets — 11,000 (1,195) Insurance proceeds received for property damages 7,907 19,493 — Litigation proceeds from settlement agreement — — 9,829  Changes in securitization account 3,308 5,493 15,514  Payments to storm"
"reserve escrow accounts (17,990) (19,780) (1,494,048) Receipts from storm reserve escrow accounts 736 98,529 1,125,279  Decrease (increase) in other investments 212 (16,733) (3,328) Litigation proceeds for reimbursement of spent nuclear fuel storage costs 82,412 23,655 32,367  Proceeds from nuclear decommissioning trust fund sales 2,805,145 1,082,722 1,636,686  Investment in nuclear decommissioning trust funds (2,894,076) (1,185,130) (1,708,901) Net cash flow used in investing activities"
"(5,849,010) (4,628,977) (5,709,897) Consolidated statements of cash flows (continued)   for the years ended Dec.  31,  – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  53  2024 financial highlights  2024 2023 2022 Financing activities in thousands Proceeds from the issuance of: Long-term debt 7,898,968 4,273,297 6,019,835 Treasury stock 136,794 9,823 32,042 Common stock — 130,649 852,555 Retirement of long-term debt (5,054,094) (5,135,753) (5,995,903) Changes in commercial paper - net (210,880)"
"310,550 (373,556) Capital contributions from noncontrolling interests — 25,708 24,702 Proceeds received by storm trusts related to securitization  — 1,457,676 3,163,572 Other 316,845 107,595 42,761 Dividends paid: Common stock  (981,659) (918,193) (841,677) Preferred stock (18,319) (18,319) (18,319) Net cash flow provided by financing activities  2,087,655 243,033 2,906,012 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 727,155 (91,616) (218,395) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of"
"period  132,548 224,164 442,559 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period $859,703 $132,548 $224,164 Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information: Cash paid during the period for: Interest - net of amount capitalized $1,114,631 $987,252 $901,884 Income taxes $41,551 $42,821 $28,354 Noncash investing activities:     Accrued construction expenditures $615,490 $487,439 $461,748 Consolidated statements of cash flows (continued)       See notes to financial statements in our 2024 form 10-K. for"
"the years ended Dec.  31,  – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  54  2024 financial highlights  2024 2023 Current assets in thousands Cash and cash equivalents:          Cash $48,424 $71,609     Temporary cash investments 811,279 60,939     Total cash and cash equivalents 859,703 132,548 Accounts receivable:     Customer 681,504 699,411     Allowance for doubtful accounts  (17,919) (25,905)     Other 204,868 225,334     Accrued unbilled revenues 521,946 494,615     Total accounts receivable"
"1,390,399 1,393,455 Deferred fuel costs — 169,967 Fuel inventory - at average cost  166,408 192,799 Materials and supplies 1,631,056 1,418,969 Deferred nuclear refueling outage costs  99,885 40,115 Current assets held for sale 15,574 — Prepayments and other 233,212 213,016 TOTAL 4,396,237 3,660,869 Other property and investments Decommissioning trust funds 5,562,575 4,863,710 Non-utility property - at cost (less accumulated depreciation)  423,764 418,546 Storm reserve escrow accounts 340,460"
"323,206 Other 82,344 69,494 TOTAL 6,409,143 5,674,956 Consolidated balance sheets — assets (unaudited)       for the years ended Dec.  31,  – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  55  2024 financial highlights  2024 2023 Property, plant and equipment in thousands Electric  70,818,667 66,850,474  Natural gas      77,054 717,503  Construction work in progress      3,206,308  2,109,703  Nuclear fuel      765,661  707,852  Total Property, plant, and equipment  74,867,690 70,385,532  Less -"
"accumulated depreciation and amortization      27,444,740  26,551,203  Property, plant, and equipment – net      47,422,950 43,834,329 Deferred debits and other assets Regulatory assets: Other regulatory assets      (includes securitization property of $234,112 as of December 31, 2024 and $250,830 as of December 31, 2023)  5,255,509  5,669,404  Deferred fuel costs      172,201 172,201 Goodwill  367,625  374,099  Accumulated deferred income taxes      18,986 16,367  Non-current assets held for"
"sale 462,797 — Other  284,584 301,171 TOTAL  6,561,702 6,533,242 TOTAL ASSETS     $64,790,032 $59,703,396  Consolidated balance sheets — assets (continued)  See notes to financial statements in our 2024 form 10-K. for the years ended Dec.  31,  – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  56  2024 financial highlights  2024 2023 Current liabilities in thousands Currently maturing long-term debt  $1,378,090 $2,099,057 Notes payable and commercial paper 927,291 1,138,171 Accounts payable 1,929,162"
"1,566,745 Customer deposits 462,436 446,146 Taxes accrued 457,093 434,213 Interest accrued  259,554 214,197 Deferred fuel costs 237,146 218,927 Pension and other postretirement liabilities  64,854 59,508 Other  395,411 219,528 TOTAL 6,111,037 6,396,492 Non-current liabilities Accumulated deferred income taxes and taxes accrued  4,467,748 4,245,982  Accumulated deferred investment tax credits  194,146 205,973 Regulatory liability for income taxes-net 1,168,078 1,033,242 Other regulatory"
"liabilities  3,609,463 3,116,926 Decommissioning and asset retirement cost liabilities 4,713,426 4,505,782 Accumulated provisions 506,063 462,570 Pension and other postretirement liabilities 254,704 648,413 Long-term debt (includes securitization bonds of $239,622 as of December 31, 2024 and $263,007 as of December 31, 2023 26,613,505 23,008,839 Customer advances for construction 634,587 292,077 Other 1,112,881 824,584 TOTAL 43,274,601 38,344,388 Commitments and Contingencies Subsidiaries’"
"preferred stock without sinking fund 219,410 219,410 Consolidated balance sheets — liabilities and equity (unaudited)   for the years ended Dec.  31,  – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  57  2024 financial highlights   2024 2023 Equity in thousands Preferred stock, no par value, authorized 1,000,000 shares in 2024 and 2023; issued shares in 2024 and 2023 - none — — Common stock, $0.01 par value, authorized 998,000,000 shares in 2024 and 2023; issued 561,950,696 shares in 2024 and 2023"
"5,620 5,620 Paid-in capital 7,833,525 7,792,601 Retained earnings 12,014,315 11,940,384 Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) 42,769 (162,460) Less - treasury stock, at cost (132,370,280 shares in 2024 and 136,253,556 shares in 2023) 4,812,321 4,953,498 Total shareholders’ equity 15,083,908 14,622,647 Subsidiaries’ preferred stock without sinking fund and noncontrolling interests 101,076 120,459 TOTAL 15,184,984 14,743,106 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY $64,790,032 $59,703,396 for the years ended"
"Dec.  31,  Consolidated balance sheets — liabilities and equity (continued)       See notes to financial statements in our 2024 form 10-K. Entergy executed a two-for-one forward stock split that was effective  with trading on December 13, 2024. All periods presented have been  retroactively adjusted to reflect the two-for-one stock split. – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  58  2024 financial highlights                                     Shareholder's equity Subsidiaries’ preferred"
"stock and noncontrolling  interests Common  stock Treasury  stock Paid-in  capital Retained  earnings Accumulated other  comprehensive  income (loss) Total in thousands Balance at December 31, 2021 $68,110 $5,440 ($5,039,699)  $6,763,519 $10,240,552 ($332,528) $11,705,394 Consolidated net income (loss) (a) (6,028) – – – 1,103,166 – 1,097,138 Other comprehensive income – – – – – 140,774 140,774 Common stock issuances and sales under the at the  market equity distribution program – 154 – 861,389 –"
"– 861,993 Common stock issuance costs – – – (9,438) – — (9,438) Common stock issuances related to stock plans  – – 60,705 14,178 – — 74,883 Common stock dividends declared – – – — (841,677) — (841,677) Beneficial interest in storm trust 31,636 – – – – 31,636 Capital contributions from noncontrolling interest 24,702 – – – – –  24,702 Distributions to noncontrolling interests (2,194) – – – – (2,194) Preferred dividend requirements of subsidiaries (a) (18,319) – – – – – (18,319) Balance at Dec. 31,"
"2022 $97,907 $5,594  ($4,978,994) $7,630,098 $10,502,041 ($191,754) $13,064,892 Consolidated net income (a) 5,774 – – – 2,356,536 – 2,362,310 Other comprehensive income – – – – – 29,294 29,294 Common stock issuances and sales under the at the  market equity distribution program – 26 – 132,391 – – 132,417 Common stock issuance costs – – – (1,768) – – (1,768) Common stock issuances related to stock plans – – 25,496 31,880 – – 57,376 Common stock dividends declared – – – – (918,193) – (918,193)"
"Beneficial interest in storm trust 14,577 – – – – – 14,577 Capital contributions from noncontrolling interests 25,708 – – – – – 25,708 Distributions to noncontrolling interests (5,188) – – – – – (5,188) Preferred dividend requirements of subsidiaries (a) (18,319) – – – – – (18,319) (a) Consolidated net income (loss) and preferred dividend requirements of subsidiaries include $16 million for 2024, 2023, and 2022 of preferred dividends on subsidiaries’ preferred stock without sinking fund that is"
"not presented as equity. Consolidated statements of changes in equity (unaudited) for the years ended Dec. 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022    – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  59  2024 financial highlights                                    Shareholder's equity Subsidiaries’ preferred  stock and noncontrolling  interests Common  stock Treasury  stock Paid-in  capital Retained  earnings Accumulated other  comprehensive  income (loss) Total in thousands Balance at December 31, 2023 $120,459"
"$5,620 ($4,953,498) $7,792,601 $11,940,384 ($162,460) $14,743,106 Consolidated net income (loss) (a) 5,594 – – – 1,055,590 – 1,061,184 Other comprehensive income – – – – – 205,229 205,229 Common stock issuances related to stock plans – – 141,177 40,924 – – 182,101 Common stock dividends declared – – – – (981,659) – (981,659) Distributions to noncontrolling interests (6,658) – – – – – (6,658) Preferred dividend requirements of subsidiaries (a) (18,319) – – – – – (18,319) Balance at December 31,"
"2024 $101,076 $5,620 ($4,812,321) $7,833,525 $12,014,315 $42,769 $15,184,984 (a) Consolidated net income (loss) and preferred dividend requirements of subsidiaries include $16 million for 2024, 2023, and 2022 of preferred dividends on subsidiaries’ preferred stock without sinking fund that is not presented as equity. Consolidated statements of changes in equity (continued) for the years ended Dec. 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022    – – – See notes to financial statements in our 2024 form 10-K. Entergy"
"executed a two-for-one forward stock split that was effective  with trading on December 13, 2024. All periods presented have been  retroactively adjusted to reflect the two-for-one stock split.  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  60  forward-looking   information In this combined report and from time to time, Entergy  Corporation and the Registrant Subsidiaries each makes  statements as a registrant concerning its expectations,  beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, projections, strategies,  and"
"future events or performance.  Such statements are  “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the  Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Words  such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “project,” “believe,” “antici- pate,” “intend,” “goal,” “commitment,” “expect,” “estimate,”  “continue,” “potential,” “plan,” “predict,” “forecast” and  other similar words or expressions are intended to identify  forward-looking statements but are not the only means  to identify these statements."
"Although each of these  registrants believes that these forward-looking statements  and the underlying assumptions are reasonable, it cannot  provide assurance that they will prove correct.  Any  forward-looking statement is based on information current  as of the date of this combined report and speaks only as  of the date on which such statement is made.  Except to  the extent required by the federal securities laws, each  registrant undertakes no obligation to publicly update or  revise any"
"forward-looking statements, whether as a result  of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and  uncertainties.  There are factors that could cause actual  results to differ materially from those expressed or implied  in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those  factors discussed or incorporated by reference in Item  1A.  Risk Factors in this report, (b) those factors discussed  or incorporated by reference in Management’s"
"Financial  Discussion and Analysis in this report, and (c) the following  factors (in addition to others described elsewhere in this  combined report and in subsequent filings with the SEC): •   Resolution of pending and future rate cases  and related litigation, formula rate proceedings  and related negotiations, including various  performance-based rate discussions, Entergy’s  utility supply plan, and recovery of fuel and  purchased power costs, as well as delays in cost  recovery resulting"
"from these proceedings. •        Regulatory and operating challenges and  uncertainties and economic risks associated with  the Utility operating companies’ participation in  MISO, including the benefits of continued MISO  participation, the effect of current or projected  – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  61  forward-looking information MISO market rules, market design and market and system  conditions in the MISO markets, the allocation of MISO  system transmission upgrade costs,"
"delays in developing  or interconnecting new generation or other resources or  other adverse effects arising from the volume of requests  in the MISO transmission interconnection queue, which  delays or other adverse effects may be exacerbated  by significant current and expected load growth, the  MISO-wide base rate of return on equity allowed or any  MISO-related charges and credits required by the FERC,  and the effect of planning decisions that MISO makes  with respect to future transmission"
"investments by the  Utility operating companies. •  Changes in utility regulation, including, with respect to  retail and wholesale competition, the ability to recover net  utility assets and other potential stranded costs, including  those capital investments associated with unrealized  customer growth expectations, and the application of  more stringent return on equity criteria, transmission  reliability requirements, or market power criteria by the  FERC or the U. S.  Department of Justice."
"•       Changes in the regulation or regulatory oversight of  Entergy’s owned or operated nuclear generating facilities,  nuclear materials and fuel, and the effects of new or  existing safety or environmental concerns regarding  nuclear power plants and fuel. •  Resolution of pending or future applications, as well  as regulatory proceedings and litigation, relating to  generation, transmission, or other facilities (including  license modifications or other authorizations for nuclear"
"generating facilities) and the effect of public and political  opposition on these applications, regulatory proceedings  and litigation, including without limitation opposition to  the employment of technologies to capture, transport and  store carbon dioxide from gas plants, land use opposition  to new solar facilities and transmission lines, and land use  and other environmental opposition to wind turbines. •       The performance of and deliverability of power from  Entergy’s generation"
"resources, including the capacity  factors at Entergy’s nuclear generating facilities. •      Increases in costs and capital expenditures that could  result from changing regulatory requirements, changing  governmental policies, priorities, programs and actions,  including as a result of tariffs and other measures,  changing economic conditions, and emerging operating  and industry issues, such as growth in demand from large  data centers, and the risks related to recovery of these  costs and"
"capital expenditures from Entergy’s customers  (especially in an increasing cost environment). •    The commitment of substantial human and capital  resources required for the safe and reliable operation  and maintenance of Entergy’s utility system, including its  nuclear generating facilities. •   Entergy’s ability to develop and execute on a point of  view regarding future prices of electricity, natural gas and  other energy-related commodities. •       The prices and availability of fuel and"
"power Entergy must  purchase for its Utility customers, particularly given the  recent and ongoing significant growth in liquified natural  gas exports and the associated significantly increased  demand for natural gas and resulting fluctuation in natural  gas prices, increasing challenges with respect to natural  gas transportation arrangements, and Entergy’s ability  to meet credit support requirements for fuel and power  supply contracts. • Volatility and changes in markets for electricity,"
"natural  gas, uranium, emissions allowances and other energy- related commodities, including as a result of trade-related  governmental actions, such as tariffs and other measures,  and the effect of those changes on Entergy and its  customers. •       Changes in environmental laws and regulations, agency  positions, or associated litigation, including requirements  for reduced emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide,  greenhouse gases, mercury, particulate matter and  other regulated air"
"emissions, heat and other regulated  discharges to water, waste management and disposal,  remediation of contaminated sites, wetlands protection  and permitting and reporting, and changes in costs of  compliance with environmental laws and regulations, as  well as changes to governmental policies incentivizing  the development or utilization of alternative sources of  generation. •   Changes in laws and regulations, agency positions, or  associated litigation related to protected species and"
"associated critical habitat designations. •      The effects of changes in federal, state, or local laws and  regulations and other governmental actions or policies,  including changes in monetary, fiscal, tax, environmental,  trade/tariff, domestic purchase requirements, or  energy policies and related laws, regulations and other  governmental actions, including as a result of prolonged  litigation over proposed legislation or regulatory actions. •    The effects of full or partial shutdowns of"
"the federal  government or delays in obtaining government or  regulatory actions or decisions. •    Uncertainty regarding the establishment of interim or  permanent sites for spent nuclear fuel and nuclear  waste storage and disposal and the level of spent fuel  and nuclear waste disposal fees charged by the U. S.   government or other providers related to such sites. •        Variations in weather and the occurrence of hurricanes  and other storms and disasters, including – – –  Entergy 2024"
"Performance Report  |  62  forward-looking information •  Uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the  effects of hurricanes, ice storms, wildfires, or other  weather events and the recovery of costs associated with  restoration, including the ability to access funded storm  reserves, federal and local cost recovery mechanisms,  securitization and insurance, as well as any related  unplanned outages. •  Effects of climate change, including the potential for  increases in the frequency"
"or severity of extreme weather  events, such as hurricanes, heat waves, drought or  wildfires, and rising sea levels or coastal land and wetland  loss, and Entergy’s ability to effectively prepare for  such effects and events, including through accelerated  resilience plans and projects, and any challenges in  execution thereof and/or in obtaining any necessary  regulatory approvals for appropriate scope and timing of  such plans and projects now and in the future. •      The risk that as a"
"result of Entergy’s membership in  Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL), an incident at  a NEIL member-insured nuclear generation facility could  lead to a significant retrospective assessment. •     The risk that an incident at a nuclear generation facility  participating in a secondary financial protection system  could lead to a significant retrospective insurance  premium. •   Changes in the quality and availability of water supplies  and the related regulation of water use and"
"diversion. •     Entergy’s ability to manage and execute on its capital  projects, including any capital projects to serve the  growing demand for electricity driven in part by the  development of large data centers, and to complete such  capital projects timely and within budget, to obtain the  anticipated performance or other benefits of such capital  projects, and to manage its capital and operation and  maintenance costs. •  The effects of supply chain disruptions, including those  driven by"
"geopolitical developments or trade-related  governmental actions, including tariffs and other  measures, on Entergy’s ability to complete its capital  projects in a timely and cost-effective manner. •    Entergy’s ability to purchase and sell assets at attractive  prices and on other attractive terms. •    The economic climate, and particularly economic  conditions in the Utility service area and events and  circumstances that could influence economic conditions  in those areas, including power"
"prices and inflation, and  the risk that anticipated load growth may not materialize. • Changes to or the repeal of federal income tax laws,  regulations, and interpretive guidance and policies,  including the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 and the  continuing impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017,  and any related intended or unintended consequences  on financial results and future cash flows. •  The effects of Entergy’s strategies to reduce tax  payments. •  The effect of interest rate"
"volatility and other changes in  the financial markets and regulatory requirements for the  issuance of securities, particularly as they affect access  to and cost of capital and Entergy’s ability to refinance  existing securities and fund investments and acquisitions. •     Actions of rating agencies, including changes in the  ratings of debt and preferred stock, changes in general  corporate ratings and changes in the rating agencies’  ratings criteria. •       Changes in inflation and"
"interest rates and the impacts of  inflation or a recession on our customers. •        The effects of government investigations, proceedings, or  audits. •    Changes in technology, including (i) Entergy’s ability  to effectively assess, implement, and manage new or  emerging technologies, including its ability to maintain  and protect personally identifiable information while  doing so; (ii) the emergence of artificial intelligence  (including machine learning), which may present  increased"
"electricity demand, as well as ethical, security,  legal, operational, or regulatory challenges; (iii) advances  in artificial intelligence (including machine learning)  technologies that could reduce the expected electricity  demand for these technologies and data centers; (iv)  – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  63  forward-looking information – – – the impact of changes relating to new, developing, or  alternative sources of generation such as distributed  energy and energy storage,"
"renewable energy, energy  efficiency, demand side management, and other  measures that reduce load and government policies  impacting development or utilization of the foregoing;  and (v) competition from other companies offering  products and services to Entergy’s customers based on  new or emerging technologies or alternative sources of  generation. •        Entergy’s ability to effectively formulate and implement  plans to increase its carbon-free energy capacity and to  reduce its carbon"
"emission rate and aggregate carbon  emissions, including its commitment to achieve net-zero  carbon emissions by 2050 and the related increasing  investment in renewable power generation sources  and carbon capture and storage, the potential impact  on its business and financial condition of attempting to  achieve such objectives, and Entergy’s ability to achieve  its climate goals and commitments due to expected load  growth. •  The effects, including increased security costs, of  threatened or"
"actual terrorism, cyber attacks or  data security breaches, physical attacks on or other  interference with facilities or infrastructure, natural or  manmade electromagnetic pulses that affect transmission  or generation infrastructure, accidents, and war or a  catastrophic event such as a nuclear accident or a natural  gas pipeline explosion. •  Impacts of perceived or actual cybersecurity or  data security threats or events on Entergy and its  subsidiaries, its vendors, suppliers or other"
"third parties  interconnected through the grid, which could, among  other things, result in disruptions to its operations,  including but not limited to, the loss of operational control,  temporary or extended outages, or loss of data, including  but not limited to, sensitive customer, employee, financial  or operations data. •    The effects of a catastrophe, pandemic (or other  health-related event), or a global or geopolitical  event such as the military activities between Russia  and"
"Ukraine, or Israel and Hamas, including resultant  economic and societal disruptions; fuel procurement  disruptions; volatility in the capital markets (and any  related increased cost of capital or any inability to access  the capital markets or draw on available bank credit  facilities); reduced demand for electricity, particularly  from commercial and industrial customers; increased  or unrecoverable costs; supply chain, vendor and  contractor disruptions, including as a result of trade-"
"related sanctions; delays in completion of capital or  other construction projects, maintenance, and other  operations activities, including prolonged or delayed  outages; impacts to Entergy’s workforce availability,  health, or safety; increased cybersecurity risks as a  result of many employees telecommuting and/or working  partially remotely; increased late or uncollectible  customer payments; regulatory delays; executive orders  affecting, or increased regulation of, Entergy’s business;"
"changes in credit ratings or outlooks as a result of any  of the foregoing; or other adverse impacts on Entergy’s  ability to execute on its business strategies and initiatives  or, more generally, on Entergy’s results of operations,  financial condition and liquidity. • Entergy’s ability to attract and retain talented  management, directors and employees with specialized  skills, institutional knowledge, capacity and abilities,  including the ability to effectively execute on Entergy’s  growth"
"strategy. • Entergy’s ability to attract, retain and manage an  appropriately qualified and sufficiently staffed workforce. •       Changes in accounting standards and corporate  governance best practices. •     Declines in the market prices of marketable securities  and changes in interest rates and resulting pension and  retiree welfare plan funding requirements and the effects  on benefits costs for Entergy’s defined benefit pension  and other postretirement benefits plans. • Future wage and"
"employee benefits costs, including  changes in discount rates and returns on benefit plan  assets. •    Changes in decommissioning trust fund values or  earnings or in the timing of, requirements for or cost  to decommission Entergy’s nuclear plant sites and  the implementation of decommissioning of such sites  following shutdown. •  The effectiveness of Entergy’s risk management policies  and procedures and the ability and willingness of its  counterparties, including lending, hedging, credit"
"support  and major customer counterparties, to satisfy their  financial and performance commitments. •       Reductions in the demand for electricity to power  hyperscale data centers and the potential for stranded  assets. •    Concentration of business with a small number  of customers in an industry based on emerging  technologies, including artificial intelligence and machine  learning,. • Entergy and its subsidiaries’ ability to successfully  execute on their business strategies, including"
"their  ability to complete strategic transactions that they may  undertake, and their ability to meet the rapidly growing  demand for electricity, including from hyperscale data  center and other large customers, and to manage the  impacts of growth in demand for electricity on customers  and Entergy’s business.  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  64  regulation G compliance Regulation G Compliance This report includes the non-GAAP financial measure of adjusted earnings per share. The"
"reconciliation of this measure to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is below. Calculations may differ due to rounding. (a) Per share amounts are calculated by multiplying the corresponding earnings (loss) by the estimated income tax rate  that is expected to apply and dividing by the diluted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation - Adjusted Earnings and Earnings Per Share  ($ in millions, except diluted average common shares"
"outstanding) 2024 Net income attributable to ETR Corporation 1,056 Less adjustments:  Utility – E-LA adjustment to a regulatory liability primarily related to securitization  resulting from Louisiana state income tax rate change 9 Utility – E-LA global agreement to resolve its FRP extension filing and other retail  matters (151) Utility – E-AR write-off of a regulatory asset related to the opportunity sales  proceeding (132) Utility – E-NO increase in customer-sharing of income tax benefits as a"
"result of the  2016-2018 IRS audit resolution (79) Utility – income tax effect on adjustments above 92 Utility – income tax expense resulting from Louisiana state income tax rate change (29) P&O – 2024 pension lift out (320) P&O – DOE spent nuclear fuel litigation settlements 25 P&O – income tax effect on adjustments above 62 ETR Adjusted Earnings (non-GAAP) 1,577 2024 Diluted average common shares outstanding (in millions) 432 (After-tax, $ per share) (a) Net income attributable to ETR"
"Corporation 2.45 Less adjustments:  Utility – Louisiana state income tax rate change, including an adjustment to E-LA’s  associated regulatory liability (0. 05) Utility – E-LA global agreement to resolve its FRP extension filing and other retail  matters (0. 26) Utility – E-AR write-off of a regulatory asset related to the opportunity sales  proceeding (0. 23) Utility – E-NO increase in customer-sharing of income tax benefits as a result of the  2016-2018 IRS audit resolution (0. 13) P&O – 2024"
"pension lift out (0. 59) P&O – DOE spent nuclear fuel litigation settlements 0. 04 ETR Adjusted Earnings (non-GAAP) 3.65 – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  65  investor information Shareholder materials Visit our investor relations website for earnings reports,  financial releases, SEC filings and other investor  information.  Visit entergy.com for Entergy's Corporate  Governance Guidelines; Board Committee Charters  for the audit, corporate governance, and talent and  compensation"
"committees; and Entergy’s Code of  Entegrity and other ethics policies. Printed copies of the above are also available without  charge by emailing investorrelations@entergy.com, or  writing to: Entergy Corporation Investor Relations  P.O.  Box 61000  New Orleans, LA 70161 Institutional investor inquiries Securities analysts and representatives of financial  institutions may contact the investor relations team at  investorrelations@entergy.com. Individual investor inquiries Individual"
"shareholders may contact Shareholder  Services at sharsrvtm@entergy.com. Shareholder account information EQ Shareowner Services is Entergy’s transfer  agent, registrar, dividend disbursing agent, and  dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plan  agent.  Shareholders of record with questions about  lost certificates, lost or missing dividend checks, or  notifications of change of address should contact: EQ Shareowner Services  P.O.  Box 64874  St.  Paul, MN 55164-0874  Phone: 855-854-1360"
"Online: shareowneronline.com Entergy Corporation’s common stock  information The company’s common stock is listed on the New  York Stock Exchange and NYSE Chicago under the  symbol “ETR. ” Entergy common stock is a component  of the following indices: S&P 500, S&P Utilities Index,  Philadelphia Utility Index, and the NYSE Composite  Index, among others. As of Jan.  31, 2025, there were 430,412,580 shares of  Entergy common stock outstanding. Shareholders of record totaled 18,974 and 899,814"
"investors holding Entergy stock in “street name” through  a broker. – – –  Entergy 2024 Performance Report  |  66  investor information Certifications In May 2024, Entergy’s chief executive officer  certified to the New York Stock Exchange that  he was not aware of any violation of the NYSE  corporate governance listing standards.  Also,  Entergy filed certifications regarding the quality  of the company’s public disclosure, required by  Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as"
"exhibits to our online Annual Report on Form 10-K  for the fiscal year ended Dec.  31, 2024. Dividend reinvestment/stock purchase Entergy offers an automatic Dividend Reinvestment  and Stock Purchase Plan administered by EQ  Shareowner Services.  The plan is designed to  provide Entergy shareholders and other investors  with a convenient and economical method to  purchase shares of the company’s common stock.   The plan also accommodates payments of up to  $10,000 per month for the purchase of"
"Entergy  common shares.  First-time investors may make  an initial minimum purchase of $250.  Contact EQ  Shareowner Services by telephone or online for  information and an enrollment form. Direct registration system Entergy has elected to participate in a Direct  Registration System that provides investors with  an alternative method for holding shares.  DRS  will permit investors to move shares between  the company’s records and the broker/dealer of  their choice. Dividend payments All of"
"Entergy’s 2024 distributions were taxable as  dividend distributions.  The board of directors declares  dividends quarterly and sets the record and payment  dates.  Subject to board discretion, those dates for  2025 are: Declaration date          Record date     Payment Jan. 31         Feb. 10         March 3 April 7         May 2   June 2 July 25          Aug. 13         Sept. 2 Oct. 31         Nov. 13         Dec. 1 Quarterly dividend payments* (in cents per share) Quarter        2025    2024"
"2023    2022    2021 1          60      56.5    53.5    50.5    47.5 2          —       56.5    53.5    50.5    47.5 3          —       56.5    53.5    50.5    47.5 4          —       60      56.5    53.5    50.5 Entergy Corporation © 2025 Entergy Services, LLC. All rights reserved. Connect with us @Entergy entergy.com *On December 12, 2024, Entergy effected a 2-for-1 forward split of its  common stock and a proportionate increase in the number of authorized  shares of its common stock. Shares"
"began trading on a split-adjusted basis  at market open on December 13, 2024. The historical quarterly dividend  payments noted above have been adjusted to reflect the stock split. – – –"
