"Corporate Responsibility Report July 2025  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 2 Contents 3 About FirstEnergy Strategy Industry Awards and Recognition Message from Leadership Corporate Responsibility at FirstEnergy 9 Energy Transition Grid Modernization Reliability Energy Management and Efficiency Climate Story Renewable Energy Electrification Technology Research and Development"
"20 Employees and Culture Talent Management and Development Employee and Contractor Safety Employee Health and Wellness Building a Healthy Culture 26 Customers and  Communities Public Safety Charitable Giving and Community  Engagement Economic Development Customer Experience Sustainable Supply Chain 33 Environmental Impact Environmental Policies, Oversight and  Compliance Biodiversity and Conservation Waste Management Water Management Non-GHG Air Emissions 41 Governance Board of Directors Ethics"
"and Compliance Political and Public Policy Engagement Stakeholder Engagement Enterprise Risk Management Physical and Cybersecurity 53 Data Table 60 Reports and Resources  3 About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources About FirstEnergy Headquartered in Akron, Ohio, FirstEnergy  is a fully regulated electric company with  more than 11,500 employees dedicated to  integrity, safety,"
"reliability and operational  excellence. Our subsidiaries are involved  in the transmission, distribution and  regulated generation of electricity. Our  electric distribution companies form one  of the nation’s largest investor-owned  electric systems, serving more than 6  million customers in Ohio, Pennsylvania,  New Jersey, West Virginia, Maryland and  New York. The company’s transmission  subsidiaries operate more than 24,000 miles  of transmission lines in the Midwest and Mid- Atlantic"
"regions. FirstEnergy’s Mon Power  subsidiary controls 3,082 Megawatts (MW)  of generating capacity from two regulated  coal plants and 30 MW of solar generating  capacity in addition to holding an indirect  interest in a pumped-storage hydro facility. *      FirstEnergy maintains an equity  interest in but no operational control  over the Bath County pumped- storage hydro facility. As such, data  related to Bath County are not  included in the data tables. OH WV MD PA NJ VA Harrison 1,984 MW"
"Bath County Pumped Storage* 487 MW Fort Martin 1,098 MW Fort Martin Solar 18.9 MW Ohio Ohio Edison The Illuminating Company Toledo Edison Pennsylvania Met-Ed Penelec Penn Power West Penn Power West Virginia/Maryland Mon Power Potomac Edison New Jersey Jersey Central Power & Light Rivesville Solar 5.5 MW Marlowe Solar 5.75 MW FirstEnergy Regulated Coal Station FirstEnergy Regulated Solar Site FirstEnergy Regulated Hydro Station Note: Company facts and territory map are current as of July 2025.  4"
"About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources Our Strategy to Transform FirstEnergy into a Premier Electric Company FirstEnergy invests in and operates our electric system to improve reliability and the customer experience, and to enable the energy transition.  We invest in our people to be safe, well trained and productive. By doing so, we improve the well-being of our customers, our"
"communities and  our employees. If we execute safely, efficiently and with integrity, our customers, employees and investors will thrive.  5 About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources Industry Awards and Recognition FirstEnergy received an Emergency Recovery Award from the Edison Electric Institute  (EEI), recognizing our outstanding response in restoring power to hundreds of thousands"
"of northeast Ohio customers following an August 2024 historic weather event that brought  severe thunderstorms, wind and tornadoes.   The company also received the Emergency Assistance Award from EEI for supporting the  restoration efforts following Hurricanes Helene and Milton. This is the 20th consecutive year  FirstEnergy has been recognized by EEI for its storm response efforts. Spotlight on Storm Response For 20th Consecutive Year, FirstEnergy  Recognized for Storm Response Earned"
"Governor's  Environmental Excellence Award  for Merrill Creek Reservoir  from New Jersey Department of  Environmental Protection Received Industry Recognition  from Edison Electric Institute for  Outage Restoration Efforts Awarded Military Friendly  Employer, Company, Spouse  Employer, and Supply Chain by  Military Friendly Survey Named a Top 50 Diversity  Employer by Minority   Engineer magazine Rated a Model Code Company  and Trendsetter in 2024 CPA- Zicklin Index with a score   of 92.9%"
"Recognized in 2024 by the ROW  Stewardship Council as a fully  accredited ROW Utility Steward Recognized by U.S. Fish and  Wildlife Service as Nationwide  Candidate Conservation  Agreement with Assurances for  Monarch Butterfly Partner on  Energy and Transportation Lands  Designated a Compliance Leader  by Ethisphere for our ethics   and compliance program   and practices Ranked top five in 2025  Best Energy & Renewables  Internships, based on survey  results from thousands of  current and"
"former interns 2025 We are proud of the awards and recognition we have received on our journey to become a premier electric company.   Recent acknowledgements include: Received the Tree Line USA  Award for nearly 30 consecutive  years, honoring utilities that  prioritize responsible tree care  6 About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources Message from FirstEnergy Leadership Brian X."
"Tierney Board Chair, President and  Chief Executive Officer Paul Kaleta Board Committee Chair,  Governance, Corporate  Responsibility and Political  Oversight The energy landscape is changing rapidly.  At FirstEnergy, we’re not just adapting, we’re  embracing change as essential to becoming  a premier electric company. Over the past  year, we’ve advanced a bold transformation  that’s reshaping how we operate, innovate  and deliver value to our customers and  communities. Our commitment remains"
"clear: to safely  and reliably deliver electricity that powers  our region’s economy and strengthens  society. We’re making strategic investments  to enhance service for our customers while  building a high-performing organization  focused on long-term energy solutions. To support our strategic goals, we’ve  assembled a strong, experienced leadership  team that prioritizes safety, agility and  continuous improvement. We’ve also  brought decision-making closer to the front  lines — empowering"
"employees, engaging  customers and working more effectively with  regulators across our five-state footprint.  This localized approach enables smarter  investments that address the unique needs of  our communities. Our multi-year investment initiative,  Energize365, is tailored to each state we  serve — making the grid smarter, more  secure and more reliable. In 2024, the  program’s first year, we invested   $4.5 billion in our system — an increase of  more than 20% compared to 2023. In early"
"2025, we raised our five-year investment  target to $28 billion through 2029, including  $5 billion planned for this year alone. Delivering reliable power is just one way  we help fuel strong, vibrant communities.  FirstEnergy also fosters a culture of  service that drives meaningful community  transformation. In 2024, employees  volunteered over 26,000 hours and helped  to raise more than $2 million for nonprofit  organizations — proving their commitment  to our customers extends well beyond"
"the  power outlet. We are proud to share this Corporate  Responsibility Report, which highlights  FirstEnergy’s progress, the path we’re  charting and the exciting opportunities  waiting just over the horizon. From powering  homes to empowering communities, we’re  setting the pace for what’s possible.         7 About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources Corporate Responsibility at"
"FirstEnergy Governance and Oversight Governance,  Corporate  Responsibility and  Political Oversight  Committee The Governance, Corporate Responsibility and Political Oversight  Committee of the Board of Directors, comprised of independent  directors, provides oversight of the company’s corporate  responsibility approach. The committee meets at least four times  per year to discuss updates on a broad range of relevant issues,  and company management provides regular updates on progress"
"throughout the year. Please see the Governance, Corporate  Responsibility and Political Oversight Committee Charter for a  description of the committee’s full responsibilities. Corporate  Responsibility  Executive-Level  Steering Committee The Corporate Responsibility Executive-Level Steering Committee  oversees our company’s corporate responsibility approach  and relevant initiatives. Members include senior leadership  from relevant business units across the company. The Steering  Committee"
"meets periodically to oversee relevant initiatives with the  goal of driving transparency and continuous improvement in the  company’s performance. Manager, Corporate  Responsibility The Manager leads the Corporate Responsibility team responsible  for executing our corporate responsibility approach, developing  relevant initiatives and collaborating with business units to support  those initiatives and enhance performance. This person reports  to the Vice President, External Affairs, and"
"regularly updates the  Corporate Responsibility Executive-Level Steering Committee and  the Governance, Corporate Responsibility and Political Oversight  Committee on our progress and evolving considerations for our  company. Responsible Business is Good Business.  It’s a hallmark of excellent, people-centered  companies that guides FirstEnergy’s mission  and unwavering commitment to deliver power  safely and reliably to over 6 million customers  every day.  Our 2025 Corporate Responsibility"
"Report demonstrates that commitment,  providing an overview of our initiatives and  continued progress across five key areas:  Energy Transition, Employees and Culture,  Customers and Communities, Environmental  Impact and Governance.  Transparency and accountability are key to  our success and continuous improvement as  we work toward becoming a more forward- thinking and industry-leading premier electric  company. Unless otherwise noted, this  document reports achievements and data  from the"
"2024 calendar year, drawing from  information available as of the publication  date.  8 About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources Identifying Priorities We’re dedicated to identifying, managing  and communicating corporate responsibility  topics most relevant to our business. Our  process involves several key steps —  including gathering comprehensive feedback  from internal and"
"external stakeholders —  to ensure we’re aligned with current and  emerging expectations. To start, we conduct materiality assessments  to highlight gaps in external expectations,  identify trends in material topics and  anticipate potentially relevant issues. We  then engage with peers, investors, non- governmental organizations (NGOs), other  stakeholders and internal subject matter  experts as another crucial aspect of our  process. By understanding their expectations  and evaluating the"
"current state of our  practices, we can better align our initiatives  with their needs. This includes leveraging  recognized sustainability frameworks and  rating organizations to benchmark our  progress in terms of transparency, processes  and practices. This multifaceted approach  paints a comprehensive picture, enabling  us to prioritize activities that will meet  stakeholder expectations while balancing our  internal resources.  Once we’ve identified the activities we want  to pursue, we"
"establish cross-functional  working teams across the company. These  teams educate subject matter experts on  responsible business expectations and  leading practices, working collaboratively to  implement recommendations that strengthen  our policies, advance our business practices  and enhance our transparency. After implementing these improvements,  our teams continuously monitor results  and review progress on closing any gaps.  This ongoing evaluation helps ensure  that we adapt to evolving"
"expectations  while maintaining our commitment to  responsible business practices. This rigorous  process allows FirstEnergy to balance the  expectations of external stakeholders with  our company's strategy, helping us become  the premier electric company we aspire to be.  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 9 We enable the energy transition by collaborating with industry peers"
"and key stakeholders to meet the evolving energy demands of customers  and communities within the states we serve. With a reliable, resilient, smart and secure grid, we continue to provide customers with the energy  they need to power the lives they want. Energy Transition  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 10 Grid Modernization  Energize365 is our multi-year grid evolution"
"initiative to deliver the power our customers  depend on today while also meeting the  challenges of tomorrow. In 2024, the first year  of Energize365, FirstEnergy invested $4.5  billion in our system — an increase of more  than 20% compared to 2023.  Building on that momentum, we plan to  invest an additional $28 billion through  the program between 2025 and 2029. Our  investments are tailored to each state we  serve to align with regulatory outcomes and  uphold our customer commitments."
"Through  Energize365, FirstEnergy is forging a smarter,  more secure and reliable grid that can meet  and exceed reliability targets. Distribution Investments for Smart, Cost- Effective Power Across our service territory, we’re working to  strengthen our grid’s foundation by building  a smarter communications network and  replacing or upgrading aging equipment.  That includes implementing advanced  technologies that help automate outage  restoration and optimize performance.  Together with smart"
"meters, these tools help  enable the distribution grid of the future.  We expect to have installed smart meters  for approximately 86% of our customers  by 2028. Aside from enabling automated  readings, these meters also help customers  make more informed choices about their  energy use. Customers with smart meters  may even be eligible for a voluntary Time- Varying Rate (TVR) offer, allowing them  to lower their energy costs by shifting or  reducing their energy usage during peak  times when"
"electricity demand is the highest. Transmission Investments for Secure,  Reliable Power FirstEnergy is making strategic investments  to help ensure our customers benefit from  a modern energy system for a modern age   — a grid that’s weather-resilient, responsive  and ready for the demand arriving now. Our  transmission investments are key to reliably  serving our customers, moving power to  where it’s most needed and enabling us  to safely integrate all available energy  resources.     We’re"
"continuing to modernize our  transmission assets, enhance operational  capabilities, improve designs and expand  capacity to meet increased demand.  Across our service area, we're replacing or  rebuilding existing lines and substations and  adding new facilities to meet anticipated  load growth and other operational  challenges. Throughout this process,  we’re committed to making the most of  our available infrastructure and rights-of- way (ROW) to minimize our impact on the  communities we"
"serve  and the surrounding  environment.  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 11 Reliability FirstEnergy’s customers expect reliable electricity. Routine infrastructure maintenance, vegetation management and storm preparedness play  key roles in our efforts to provide the reliable service our customers count on to power their daily lives. Vegetation Management   Proactive"
"vegetation management is essential  to maintaining a reliable and safe electric  system. Our Vegetation Management teams  work closely with qualified line clearance  crews to clear both transmission and  distribution corridors from vegetation that  has the potential to obstruct power lines.  We conduct comprehensive assessments to  identify critical hazards, control incompatible  vegetation and minimize tree-caused outages  across our territory.  Our Vegetation Management teams are  industry"
"leaders, utilizing and promoting  best management practices like Integrated  Vegetation Management (IVM) and Closed  Chain of Custody (CCC) to safely maintain  more than 2.5 million trees every year. We  follow four-year and five-year maintenance  cycles for transmission and distribution  lines, depending on state regulations. In  that time, we monitor our ROW to assess  treatment effectiveness, identify necessary  work to provide reliable service, and inspect  and approve all work conducted by"
"utility  vegetation maintenance contractors. We  also communicate with property owners,  regulatory agencies and customers to provide  information regarding our maintenance  activities and address any questions or  concerns in a timely manner.  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 12 and efficient service restoration. Additionally, we conduct After Action  Reviews with affected"
"stakeholders following all major storm events  and emergencies to assess our performance and identify Corrective  Actions designed to help improve our readiness and ensure  accountability.   Measuring Reliability Performance Our customers count on us to keep their energy flowing and  address outages swiftly when they occur. Reliability metrics such  as distribution System Average Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI)  and Transmission Outage Frequency (TOF) are included in our  Key Performance"
"Indicators (KPIs) and are crucial to our pursuit of  performance excellence. SAIDI represents the average amount of time in minutes the average  customer experiences an outage over a period, typically in a year. Our  KPI goals for SAIDI are consistent with our five-year state operational  plans as part of the capital investment strategy. The KPI goals for TOF  are determined through industry peer benchmarking.  We measure our reliability performance and share results with  employees both monthly"
"and annually. These metrics can be found in  the Corporate Responsibility Data Table. Storm Preparedness and Service Restoration  We work hard to deliver reliable service to our customers, but extreme  weather may still impact our electrical system. From monitoring storms  to staging crews and equipment in anticipation of inclement weather,  FirstEnergy takes many steps to stay prepared, reduce outages and  recover faster after storms. We’ve developed and deployed a state-of-the-art forecast"
"modeling  tool that helps us predict the scope of impact days ahead of an  event. When severe weather is forecast, FirstEnergy activates formal  readiness plans to ensure service crews are prepared to tackle the  damage.  Our emergency response processes enable us to respond quickly  and safely to a storm or other emergency. Our command-and-control  processes align with National Incident Management System (NIMS)  practices to help provide a standardized, consistent and scalable  approach to all"
"incidents regardless of size, scope or complexity.  FirstEnergy also has an Emergency Communications Plan to ensure  we’re appropriately staffed during outage events to provide accurate  and timely updates and keep the public safe and informed during  restoration efforts. To maintain a state of operational preparedness, we conduct annual  exercises to test our training as well as key systems and tools.  Employees have pre-determined emergency roles with ongoing,  formalized training, ensuring we"
"have the expertise required for safe   About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 13 Energy Management and Efficiency Energy Management  We continue to help our customers better  understand and manage their energy  usage by linking them to a variety of energy  efficiency programs and energy management  tools — giving them the power to achieve  their energy goals.  Our online Energy"
"Analyzer tool helps  customers gain valuable insight into their  energy use to determine solutions that  will work best for their households. The  tool includes bill comparisons, home  and business energy analysis, account  information and preferences as well as high- bill alerts. With so much information at their  fingertips, our customers are empowered to  make changes in their energy use during the  current billing period to help manage their  energy costs. Energy Efficiency FirstEnergy has"
"long supported our  customers’ ability to use energy more  efficiently and wisely. Energy-saving  programs are one way we help customers  identify areas to reduce energy use and  save money on their electricity bills. We offer  customers valuable information on state- specific programs to help meet their needs,  support states’ energy efficiency goals  and provide system reliability by lowering  demand.  We help residential customers access  significant incentives that offset the costs  of major"
"home efficiency upgrades, such  as home insulation and weatherization,  major appliance upgrades or heating and  cooling system improvements. Others may  benefit from smaller, incremental changes  such as lighting improvements, enhanced  energy usage data and education, or kits  that provide useful energy-efficient products,  such as LED light bulbs.  In 2024, our energy efficiency programs  helped customers save over 730,000  megawatt hours (MWh) of electricity —  the equivalent of one year’s"
"pollution from  110,000 cars. By the end of 2025, we aim to  help customers achieve over 7.5 million MWh  in cumulative electricity savings and reduce  peak demand on the electric grid by   400 MW, all relative to our 2020 baseline.  If fully implemented, these efforts will  prevent more than 5.3 million metric tons of  greenhouse gas emissions — comparable to  taking 1.1 million passenger vehicles off the  road for a year. We also offer solutions for small businesses,  government entities,"
"schools and even  the largest and most energy-intensive  manufacturers and industries. Our portfolio  of commercial and industrial programs  provides measures and financial incentives  for these customers to purchase qualifying  high-efficiency products; recycle inefficient  appliances; complete energy audits; and  adopt energy-saving behaviors or energy  management practices. Learn More Energy-Saving Tips Energy-Saving Programs Home Energy Analyzer Business Energy Analyzer Smart Meters"
"Spotlight on Smart Communities  Cities are using smart technologies  to promote energy and cost savings  while increasing public safety.  We’re working with cities throughout  our footprint to install smart LEDs  that make brighter, more inviting  communities where our customers  live, work, shop and learn.  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 14 Climate Story FirstEnergy seeks"
"opportunities to enable  the energy transition and reduce our  greenhouse gas (GHG) footprint. Successful  implementation of that strategy requires  monitoring and mitigating both transition and  physical risks that could emerge.  Our climate story aligns with the Task Force  for Climate-related Financial Disclosure  (TCFD) framework. It evaluates climate- related risks and opportunities that emerged  from our scenario analysis, details the strong  governance oversight that enables us to"
"mitigate risks and discusses our aspiration to  reduce GHG.  We aspire to carbon neutrality of our Scope  1 GHG emissions by 2050 while maintaining  reliability and affordability for our customers.  For FirstEnergy, Scope 1 GHG emissions  include those from generation, mobile  fleet and sulfur hexafluoride (SF6). We  acknowledge the uncertain landscape our  industry will be traversing over the next 25  years. Transition risks, including federal and/ or state policy and regulation, technology"
"availability and affordability, market demands  and customer needs could have an impact  on our progress and decision-making over  that time horizon. Generation FirstEnergy operates in only one state that  currently supports regulated, on demand  generation. As of Dec. 31, 2024, our two  coal-fired generation facilities in West Virginia  represent 3,082 MW of baseload generation.  The U.S. electric system is at an inflection  point as energy demand is expected to  increase sharply over the next"
"decade,  driven by the growth of energy-intensive  industries such as data centers, the  electrification of transportation and heating,  and the onshoring of manufacturing — all of  which could result in higher energy costs and  reliability challenges. Our customers count on us to meet today’s  rapidly growing energy needs and help  make America home to the industries that  will power our future. As a responsible  energy provider, FirstEnergy is exploring  potential solutions that will maintain"
"reliability  while keeping a careful eye on affordability.  FirstEnergy will submit an Integrated  Resource Plan (IRP) to the West Virginia  Public Service Commission (WVPSC) by  the end of 2025, detailing how we plan  to continue to provide our West Virginia  customers with reliable, resilient and cost- effective energy through 2035.  With the projected demand increases  come opportunities for technological  advancements, including carbon capture  and sequestration (CCS). While this is not  yet"
"a viable and cost-effective option for  fossil fuel generation in our region, we will  continue to monitor its development along  with other emerging technologies that have  the potential to advance decarbonization in  the energy sector.     FirstEnergy’s Generation Portfolio in Perspective 2005 2024 2010 2015 2020 2024 generation fleet represents approximately: –    1.6% total U.S. coal capacity  –        8.2% PJM coal capacity 84% Reduction in Scope 1   GHG emissions since 2005  About"
"FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 15 The exact path to carbon neutrality for  FirstEnergy’s generation fleet is uncertain  due to potential changes in environmental  regulations, resource adequacy concerns  and availability of cost-effective technological  advancements. We will continue to monitor  these transition risks and the WVPSC’s  response to our IRP, and we’ll assess their"
"collective impact on our ability to achieve  carbon neutrality by 2050.  Mobile Fleet Our most effective decarbonization  opportunity is to explore ways to reduce  emissions for our light-duty and aerial truck  fleets of over 3,400 vehicles. From 2020  to 2024, we transitioned 16% of our fleet  to fully electric or hybrid vehicles. As we  continue to explore opportunities to reduce  our mobile fleet emissions, we are monitoring  the cost-effectiveness of this strategy as  well as continued"
"manufacturing and supply  chain delays. We are also regularly engaged  with vehicle manufacturers on their progress  toward developing cost-effective electric  solutions for all classes of vehicles that  FirstEnergy uses.   Sulfur Hexafluoride Reducing SF6 emissions from our  transmission and distribution equipment is an  important component of our Scope 1 GHG  decarbonization aspirations and supports  operational efficiency. Sulfur hexafluoride  is an inert gas commonly used by energy"
"companies as an electrical insulating material  and arc extinguisher in high-voltage circuit  breakers and switchgear. If escaped to the  atmosphere, it acts as a potent GHG with a  global warming potential significantly greater  than CO2.  In the past five years, we have reduced  our SF6 emissions by 35% — including a  7% reduction in 2024 alone. In the near  term, we’re exploring additional reduction  strategies such as cost-effective alternatives  to SF6 for lower voltages. Some transition"
"risks impact FirstEnergy’s  abilities to achieve carbon neutrality  regarding SF6. These lay primarily in the  need for technological developments that  would allow for affordable SF6 alternatives  for all types of transmission and distribution  equipment, while still allowing for reliability  of equipment. To mitigate risks associated  with SF6 decarbonization efforts, FirstEnergy  employs a multi-pronged approach across its  system to achieve reductions, including leak  rate analytics, gas"
"imaging technology and  equipment upgrades.  Spotlight on Responsible Business  We are committed to our climate strategy  and staying focused on what matters  most — strengthening our core business  to deliver power and value to the  stakeholders we serve. With this in mind,  we sold our minority equity ownership in  Global Mining Holding Company, LLC,  which owns Signal Peak Energy, LLC, a  coal mining operation in Montana, in July  2025.  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and"
"Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 16 Resiliency Historically, FirstEnergy and other utilities  have relied on past weather patterns to  predict future conditions. This approach can  help us anticipate short-term weather activity  and prepare for any potential impact on the  grid and help improve resilience. However,  we’re also interested in understanding the  long-term impacts of changing weather  patterns.   FirstEnergy"
"recognizes the impact that more  frequent and/or extreme weather events,  changes in temperatures and precipitation  patterns could have within our region.  Resulting physical risks such as flooding,  wildfires, rising sea levels and other related  phenomena could affect some, or all, of our  operations.  Recognizing the importance of addressing  physical risks, we’re conducting a  vulnerability study to assess such risks to our  business. Leveraging data, we’re identifying  vulnerabilities in"
"our existing infrastructure  and projected physical risks, including those  that could contribute to wildfires. Although  the precise pace and effects of weather  remain uncertain, this study will equip us with  a robust understanding of how our current  and future investment plans can help mitigate  physical risks related to weather conditions  and help improve resilience.  Oversight Transition and physical risks are integrated into our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)  process to help ensure"
"we understand and mitigate potential risks that could have an impact  on our business and key stakeholders while capitalizing on opportunities that align with  FirstEnergy’s business strategy.   FirstEnergy's Board of Directors provides oversight of risk management practices, reviews  material company risks — including the climate-related ones — and helps ensure processes  are in place to support a strong risk management culture. The Board also has five standing  committees that, through their"
"respective oversight responsibilities, help guide FirstEnergy’s  climate strategy and related efforts. The Governance, Corporate Responsibility and Political  Oversight Committee has general responsibility for oversight of climate-related topics at each  of its meetings.  At the management level, responsibilities for climate matters are spread across the company.  Cross-functional management-level committees — including the Corporate Responsibility  Executive-Level Steering Committee, the"
"Climate Subcommittee and the ERM Committee —  are designed to bring relevant leaders together to help FirstEnergy monitor climate related  risks in alignment with our corporate strategy, identify and manage risks, capitalize on energy  transition opportunities and provide transparency through disclosure efforts.   About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 17 Renewable Energy Though"
"regulatory decisions may limit our ability to develop renewable generation, we look for  opportunities to empower our customers with solutions that include a range of energy options.   Four of the five states in which FirstEnergy principally operates (Ohio, Pennsylvania, New  Jersey and Maryland) are deregulated states. With a few exceptions, FirstEnergy’s utilities are  prohibited from owning generation in these states. This includes renewable generation assets  such as solar and wind as well"
"as energy storage when storage is defined as a generation  asset. Solar Generation In 2024, Mon Power and Potomac Edison completed two utility-scale solar sites in West Virgina  to help bolster the region’s energy mix and boost economic development. Energized in January 2024, the Fort Martin site is situated on approximately 80 acres in  Maidsville. With nearly 50,000 solar panels, the site produces up to 18.9 MW of renewable  energy per hour. In September 2024, the companies brought their"
"second site online. Located  in Marion County, the Rivesville site operates on top of a 27-acre fly ash disposal site and uses  nearly 14,000 solar panels to generate up to 5.5 MW of energy per hour. Together, these sites  are now generating enough renewable energy to power over 4,200 homes, based on national  averages and calculations by the Solar  Energy Industries Association. Our third site, Marlowe, was energized on  April 9, 2025. The Marlowe site is situated  on a 36-acre property in"
"Berkeley County  that was previously an ash disposal site  for the former R. Paul Smith Power Station.  In 2022, after removing more than three  million tons of ash, FirstEnergy successfully  completed the closure by removal of coal  combustion residuals, paving the way for its  redevelopment as part of our solar program.  The solar facility will produce up to 5.75  MW of renewable power for West Virginia  customers.  With approval from the WVPSC, we plan to  build solar sites in Davis, Tucker"
"County (11.5  MW), and Weirton, Hancock County (8.4 MW)  once customers subscribe to the energy the  facilities will produce. Ultimately, the five solar  sites are expected to collectively generate up  87,000 MWh of renewable energy annually.  Offshore Wind  We are helping modernize New Jersey’s  energy grid by upgrading existing high- voltage transmission infrastructure and  enabling the state to handle the growing  demand for electricity now and for years to  come. In 2022, Governor Murphy"
"increased  New Jersey’s already robust offshore wind  goal by nearly 50% to have available 11,000  MW offshore wind by 2040. To support  this goal, Jersey Central Power and Light   About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 18 (JCP&L) is in the process of making several  onshore transmission upgrades within  existing ROW. JCP&L earned the projects  through a competitive solicitation"
"process  with the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities  (NJBPU), in coordination with regional grid  operator PJM Interconnection (PJM). The on-shore transmission upgrade projects  were carefully designed to maximize existing  grid infrastructure and minimize disruption  for New Jersey residents. JCP&L will use  approximately 40 miles of existing power line  corridors for the upgrades, and the projects  will not require any new construction on  undeveloped land outside of JCP&L’s owned  property"
"or existing ROW.  Battery Energy Storage In October 2024, a 1.75 MW battery  storage system went online in Little Orleans,  Maryland, enhancing grid reliability for over  600 Potomac Edison customers in an area  prone to tree-related outages during severe  weather events. The battery storage system  was developed in response to Maryland’s  2019 Energy Storage Pilot Program. When  fully charged, the system’s batteries are  expected to provide about five hours of  backup power for customers on the"
"circuit,  and we can reserve the battery on days that  present a higher risk of outages based on  predicted weather forecasts. Potomac Edison was the first utility to  complete a project under Maryland’s  program. In November 2022, the electric  company paired battery energy storage with two new electric vehicle (EV) fast-charging  stations and one Level 2 charging station in Frederick County. Fast-charging stations create  significant demand on electric grids. However, bundling the energy"
"storage system with fast  chargers allows Potomac Edison to manage the impact of such demand spikes on its network  while also providing backup power to the chargers during a grid outage. Teams across the  company are continually evaluating additional opportunities to deploy energy storage across  our service territory. Distributed Energy Resources We work closely with our customers if they choose to use distributed energy resources (DERs)  and have developed processes that support the"
"interconnection of solar, energy storage and  other DERs consistent with the laws and regulations of the states in which we operate. As customers grow more interested in the opportunities presented by DERs, we are studying  the best ways to facilitate connection to our grid. Every installation is unique, and we help  customers to safely and reliably integrate their DER project with our grid. FirstEnergy is piloting  an online portal to simplify interconnection applications as well as the ability"
"to pay fees  electronically.   About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 19 Electrification  Infrastructure for Hybrid and Electric Vehicles Maryland and New Jersey have both  experienced significant increases in  registrations for electric and hybrid vehicles  over the past several years. In New Jersey,  EV registrations increased by over 385%  between 2020 and 2024. EV registrations"
"in  Maryland increased by over 59% between  2023 and 2024 alone. Our transportation  infrastructure initiatives are making the  adoption of hybrid and electric vehicles more  accessible, convenient and affordable. We  are also looking to expand EV programs and  incentives to other states within our service  territory. In Maryland, we’re continuing to support  the state’s zero-emission vehicle goals by  installing utility-owned public charging  stations throughout our Potomac Edison  service"
"area. Potomac Edison owns and  operates 62 charging stations, including 20  direct-current (DC) fast chargers, and Level  2 charging stations that accommodate two  vehicles simultaneously. In December 2024,  Potomac Edison filed EV Driven Phase II,  which includes expanded access to EV  charging to better serve customers.  We’re also providing incentives for  residential, mixed-use commercial and  multifamily property charging in New Jersey.  In September 2024, JCP&L relaunched its EV  Driven"
"residential electric vehicle charging  incentives after maxing out customer  participation in 2023. The incentives cover  the cost of preparation work that customers  are required to complete before an EV  charger can be installed.  Beyond residential offers, we’re also working  to increase public-access DC fast charging,  with incentives up to $25,000 per DC fast  charger port for up to 248 charging locations  accessible to the public across JCP&L’s  service territory. Additionally, in February"
"2025,  JCP&L filed a program with the NJBPU that  will offer infrastructure incentives and planning  services for customers looking to electrify their  medium- and heavy-duty vehicle fleets. Technology Research and Development FirstEnergy participates in many efforts to  support the research, development and  deployment of advanced technologies  that can enhance reliability and resiliency.  Additionally, we participate in many industry  collaborations designed to guide better  decision making"
"and bring innovation into  the company to help us better serve our  customers' future energy needs.   Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI):  We use EPRI’s industry research to stay  informed of the latest energy trends through  active working and advisory participation in  research institutes. Through this important  collaboration with EPRI, FirstEnergy  participates in numerous research programs  and projects, focusing on energy and  energy transition topics across transmission,"
"distribution and generation. Energy Impact Partners (EIP): We participate  in venture capital investments through  EIP, a global investment group leading  the transition to a sustainable energy  future. These investments are focused on  transforming the utility industry through the  development of emerging industry solutions  and close-to-market utility technologies.  Our participation provides insight into future  industry trends and opportunities, as well as  exposure to innovative"
"technologies that can  benefit our customers, our company and the  environment.   About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 20 When it comes to practicing responsible business, we turn to our employees for inspiration. We empower employees to be a catalyst for good  throughout FirstEnergy’s footprint. We invest in our employees — a talented team accomplishing remarkable things every"
"day — so they can do  their best for each other, our customers and the communities they all call home. Employees and Culture  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 21 Talent Management and Development         Our talent management and total rewards processes are designed to attract, retain, focus,  reward and develop a skilled workforce with wide-ranging expertise and perspective"
"to best  serve our customers. We are focused on three core areas: building high-performing teams  within a culture of the highest standards of integrity and ethics; creating an environment of  respect, appreciation and acceptance for everyone; and helping employees grow, develop  and reach their full potential. Recruiting and Hiring a High-Performing Workforce  FirstEnergy’s recruiting, interviewing and hiring processes leverage many established best  practices to help ensure we select the best"
"candidate for every open position.   Our key recruiting and hiring practices include: •      Using a broad talent sourcing strategy that includes engagement with more than 25  colleges, universities, professional, non-profit and civic organizations through our  FirstEnergy Ambassador Network (FAN). •        Building a hiring champion network of over 600 employees who have been trained to  support interview panels and ensure an objective, consistent approach for the interview  and selection"
"processes. •  Providing training for all hiring managers and interview team members to mitigate  unconscious bias in the selection process. Building the Talent Pipeline We continue to build and strengthen our  talent pipeline through a variety of programs.  In 2024, we launched the FirstEnergy  Apprenticeship Program to help provide a  pipeline of high-quality talent in our line and  substation workforce. In step with today’s  competitive labor market, the program  includes paid, full-time"
"employment for hired  apprentices that begins with the start of  their comprehensive training. The program  has apprentices progress through training  in staged waves at both FirstEnergy training  centers and actual job sites, where they learn  foundational skills from veteran employee  instructors. Additionally, college students participating  in our Co-op & Intern Program receive  meaningful work experience along with  professional development, mentorship  and networking opportunities. In"
"2024,  we successfully converted over 92% of  graduating participants, far exceeding the  benchmark of 53% reported by the National  Association of Colleges and Employers.  Employees also promote career opportunities  at FirstEnergy and in the energy sector  through the FAN. In January 2025, through  FAN’s engagement with the Akron Public  Schools, Akron-area employees welcomed  tenth grade students at various company  facilities, where they explored careers in  engineering, skilled trades,"
"digital design,  physical security, emergency preparedness  and disaster recovery.  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 22 Employee Development Employee development is another key talent  management process. We‘re committed to  preparing our high-performing workforce for  the future and helping employees develop  skills and competencies that unlock their  full potential. Our"
"strategy encompasses a  range of development and training programs  designed to help our employees achieve  professional goals and drive FirstEnergy’s  continued success.   Education and Certification – We help our  employees pursue degrees and certifications  to advance their careers and enhance  their contributions to FirstEnergy. We offer  a comprehensive tuition reimbursement  program, which covers the costs of  satisfactorily completed courses of study  directly related to our business"
"(capped  at $7,500 per year per person, beginning  in 2025). All regular, full-time employees,  including union members, are eligible for  reimbursement. In addition, our Educate  to Elevate program assists employees  in pursuing associate and bachelor’s  degrees at partner colleges and universities  throughout our footprint.   Mentoring Program – In this formal program,  mentors generally work with mentees  over a 12-month period, focusing on a  clear career or development goal with  measurable"
"outcomes. It’s designed to  create collaborative, two-way partnerships  that encourage employees to share their  expertise, values and diverse perspectives  to support long-term career growth. In  addition, high-performing and high- potential employees may be paired  with mentors during our ongoing talent  review and succession planning process  as a meaningful action to support their  development.   Career Management – FirstEnergy is a  multifaceted organization with a range  of opportunities"
"for employee growth,  development and advancement. Employees  actively plan and manage their careers  in partnership with leaders, including the  setting of performance and development  goals. We invest in developing our leaders  so they can continually build on their  strengths and grow their capabilities to  create a safe and inclusive workplace.  These efforts include various leadership  programs that support employees through  all stages of the leadership process, from  aspiring or new"
"leaders to experienced and  senior leaders. Our leadership programs  further bolster our succession planning  and leadership selection as we ensure that  there are meaningful development plans in  place for emerging leaders. We often look  to succession plans when there is a need to  fill a leadership role, but we also engage in  external searches to make sure we consider  a broad pool of candidates. Spotlight on Engagement Our Employee Engagement Survey  helps us gather important insights  and"
"initiate changes that prioritize the  needs of our workforce. The latest  survey results were released in early  2024 and showed positive trends in  several key areas. Notably, both non- bargaining and bargaining employees  gave immediate supervisors high  marks for valuing contributions  and modeling company values.  The survey is now administered  every other year, providing greater  opportunity to create, implement and  review meaningful action plans based  on employee feedback.  About"
"FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 23 Employee and Contractor Safety  At FirstEnergy, safety is a business and  cultural imperative embedded in every  aspect of our operations. It means making  sure we’re doing the right thing at the right  time, every time, so everyone returns home  safely every day. Focusing on keeping each  other safe means accepting the responsibility  to look out"
"for ourselves and each other. There is consistent reinforcement of the  shared and personal accountability for  controlling exposure to hazards and  continuously improving safety behaviors,  systems and controls. We include safety  metrics as KPIs in our annual incentive  compensation program because a safe work  environment is crucial to our success.  Leaders and employees receive safety  training and reinforcement of exposure  control concepts to improve job site  exposure identification,"
"communication and  mitigation to prevent life-changing events  (LCEs). FirstEnergy continues to enhance  and reinforce leader and employee safety  training and exposure control concepts to  improve job site exposure identification,  communication and mitigation to prevent  LCEs.  We recognize leadership’s key role in  controlling and eliminating exposure. We’ve  provided LCE critical control workshops  and in-field coaching for managers and  supervisors, as well as awareness training  for our"
"field leaders. FirstEnergy continues to  expand its Leading with Safety experiences  to achieve excellence in personal, contractor  and public safety. For 2025, the company’s Safety KPIs will  remain unchanged. This includes the  continued use of the LCE and Days Away/ Restricted or Job Transfer Rate (DART)  metrics. The transition to Serious Injury or  Fatality (SIF) classification will not affect  these existing KPIs, and the compensation  program will continue to reinforce that a safe  work"
"environment is crucial to our success.   Our success in achieving our safety  standards depends heavily on partnering  with our employees and unions to further  reduce exposure and improve our safety  practices and processes. We build training,  education, feedback and coaching  opportunities into our safety processes,  including the use of field verifications. We  also work to build trusting relationships  across organizational levels and encourage  employees to speak up and pause or stop  work"
"if they feel something is not right. We’re also strengthening our relationships  with our contractors and focusing our  efforts to reduce their exposures, eliminate  events and pursue safety excellence while  sharing information and best practices. Our  comprehensive contractor safety program  is a key part of this effort and consists  of contractor pre-qualification, safety  requirements, oversight and on-site safety  evaluations.   Spotlight on Safety Standards In 2019, FirstEnergy launched"
"the Life-Changing Event  Potential (LCEP) system to classify incidents that had  potential to cause an LCE. Beginning in 2025, we’re  transitioning away from LCEP terminology to focus on SIF to  better align with industry standards.  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 24   Benefits We’re committed to helping our employees  maintain and improve their health. Our  benefits and"
"wellness offerings focus on  physical, emotional, social and ﬁnancial  health and well-being.   We encourage employees to make their  overall health a priority through supplemental  offerings like our robust HealthyLiving  Wellness Program. Employees use a mobile  app to access personalized wellness  content, including a health assessment  survey and health screening, wellness  challenges and health coaching. Employees  may also choose to complete educational  journeys on topics such as work-"
"life balance,  mindfulness, joint health and financial  literacy. The program offers financial rewards,  encouraging participants to establish,  maintain and improve health and total   well-being.   Time-Off Policies and Workplace Flexibility  Our time-off policies are designed to  promote a healthy work-life balance and  allow employees time away to spend with  friends and family and pursue interests  outside of work. Our time-off program allows  for flexibility in how employees take paid"
"leave and goes beyond standard Paid Time  Off (PTO) offerings to address unforeseen  circumstances and employee well-being. Additionally, eligible employees have access  to 16 hours of paid Volunteer Time Off (VTO),  which can be used instead of PTO when an  employee volunteers at a 501(c)(3) charitable  organization. This VTO policy enables our  employees to volunteer with organizations  that matter to them and supports our  company’s mission to make our communities  stronger. Labor Relations"
"Our union-represented employees work  in critical areas of our business, including  distribution and transmission, power  generation and various support occupations.  We respect our employees’ rights to  negotiate the terms of their employment  through the labor unions they choose to  represent them. We value healthy labor  relations because we understand employees  who participate in important workplaces  decisions have high levels of commitment,  engagement and productivity. We work with labor"
"unions in key areas, such  as implementing initiatives to foster a safety- first culture, offering enhanced technical  training programs, advancing health and  wellness and building career pathways. We  participate in multiple cooperation initiatives  with the union leaders representing our  employees. This enables the company and  union to coequally fund and pursue projects  outside of work that are mutually beneficial.  FirstEnergy offers a comprehensive set  of benefits and programs to"
"support our  employees, including: •      401(k) savings plan (with matching  employer contributions) •   Company-provided healthcare  contribution •     Dental •        Dependent insurance and flexible  spending accounts •   Educational assistance •        Financial planning •    Health savings accounts and employer  funding opportunities •   HealthyLiving wellness program •        Life insurance (basic, supplemental,  dependent life and accidental death and  dismemberment) • Life Resources"
"Employee Assistance  Program •   Long-term disability insurance •        Medical and prescription •      Pension •       Vision Employee Health and Wellness   About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 25 Building a Healthy Culture We continue to build a healthy culture — one that is inclusive and  promotes integrity, accountability and innovation — so we can  deliver better service to"
"our customers, strengthen our operational  performance and reach our goal of becoming a premier electric  company.   Key efforts include: • Assessing our Progress: It’s important to know how we’re  progressing with our culture journey, so we partnered with an  external consultant to conduct a Cultural Maturity assessment.  The output from this assessment has helped to identify areas we  will prioritize as we refine our culture roadmap, including: −        Fostering a speak up culture −"
"Enhancing talent development and transparency in  communications −      Helping employees understand our business strategy and  how they contribute to the company’s success −  Elevating accountability for performance, results and  continuous improvement • Ensuring Fair and Equitable Compensation: We’re committed to  ensuring that our internal policies and processes support pay  equity, which is periodically confirmed by a third-party review.  Our internal processes also monitor and ensure that"
"pay equity  considerations are part of our normal ongoing compensation  evaluation process. •        Listening to Employee Feedback: Throughout the year, employees  are encouraged to provide feedback about the company’s work  environment and leadership through FirstEnergy Live events,  companywide surveys and discussion opportunities during  meetings with department leaders. With employees’ voices to  guide us, we’re continuing our transformation to a values- and  people-centered company.   •"
"Engaging Employees in Actions: A working group comprised of  managers and individual contributors shares the results from  our employee engagement surveys and guides the work of our  implementation team of more than 200 employees who help  implement actions locally. In addition, we’ve continued to foster  open communication and build relationships with leadership  through various employee engagement initiatives. •       Employee Business Resource Groups (EBRGs): Our employee- driven EBRGs engage"
"and support employees by providing  education, professional development, volunteering and  networking opportunities to their members and allies. Available to  our entire workforce, over 3,400 employees participate across the  21 different chapters of our nine EBRGs.  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 26 We’re committed to promoting public safety, investing in the communities"
"we serve, supporting economic development and advancing  responsible business practices to enable positive change while delivering superior customer service. Customers and Communities  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 27 Public Safety  Our commitment to safety extends beyond our employees and company facilities to include  the customers and communities we serve."
"Stop.Look.Live. is an ongoing public safety outreach  campaign that teaches school-age students, first responders, at-risk workers and the general  public to stay safe around electrical facilities.   FirstEnergy maintains peer relationships and participates in industry associations to develop programs aligned with industry best practices and  remain in the forefront of public safety advancements. We are continuously improving and expanding our programs to address trends within the  industry and"
"across our footprint. For example, in 2024, our Safety team began working with ADMS Analytics to help improve community safety  by identifying poles associated with multiple vehicle strikes. Drone Safety We’re working to increase awareness about the potential dangers of operating drones near energized electrical equipment.  Our Drone Safety webpage guides users from unboxing a new drone through operating it safely — and offers an educational  racing game the whole family can enjoy.  Live Wire"
"Electrical  Safety trailers We use our fleet of Live Wire Electrical Safety trailers to educate first responders and other community members who may  come near our electrical lines and equipment. In 2024, FirstEnergy completed 260 demonstrations across our footprint,  teaching more than 13,500 participants how to safely handle electrical hazards encountered in the field. Overhead  Wires  Outreach We produced five videos to educate the public and at-risk workers, covering different hazards that"
"might exist around a  home and what homeowners and workers can do to keep themselves safe. In 2024, the videos reached over 134 million  people across FirstEnergy’s footprint. PowerTOWNs In Ohio, we’re piloting Live Wire Electrical Safety PowerTOWNs to demonstrate electrical safety practices in schools. The  table-top towns are fitted with a home and power lines and include props such as ladders, trees, kites and vehicles that  could come into contact with energized equipment.  Driver Safety"
"Video FirstEnergy produced a video about the dangers of downed wires on vehicles and how to handle it if you should ever find  yourself in that situation. The video is currently available on our website, and we hope to distribute it to high schools for use  in driver’s education programs in the near future. Record of  Warning Launched in November 2023, the Record of Warning program provides a method for company employees to inform the  public about the dangers and the laws that apply to working"
"near electrical facilities anytime opportunities or relevant  situations are encountered. The program includes a brochure containing vital safety information as well as a means for  employees to document details of an interaction. The purpose of this outreach is to prevent serious injuries and fatalities that  can result from improper work practices.   Encroachment  Awareness Many homeowners may not be aware that their property abuts a FirstEnergy ROW or that there are restrictions for use of"
"that  land. In 2024, FirstEnergy launched a campaign specifically for those individuals who may be impacted by ROW in order to  educate them about the do’s and don’ts, including what kind of vegetation can be planted, what structures are prohibited  and how to reach out to FirstEnergy for more information.  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 28 Charitable Giving and Community"
"Engagement Aligned with FirstEnergy’s commitment to  stewardship, we work with local nonprofit  organizations and community leaders  to support initiatives that promote civic,  economic and social well-being. This  support includes FirstEnergy Foundation  grants, corporate giving and sponsorships,  annual giving campaigns and employee  volunteerism. The FirstEnergy Foundation invests in  transformative 501(c)3 organizations that  enhance the vitality of the communities we  serve. The"
"foundation’s giving priorities  parallel FirstEnergy’s business interests  and include a focus on housing, hunger,  workforce development and education within  our region.  The foundation also facilitates robust  employee-driven giving campaigns,  including the Give Where You Live campaign  to support the United Way. This annual  campaign exemplifies our dedication to  making a positive impact through collective  action and giving back to the community, a  demonstration of our team's commitment"
"to  our shared purpose.  In-kind and monetary donations are also  top of mind, especially following an extreme  weather event. Staging sites for FirstEnergy  operations during storm response often  become distribution sites for excess food and  supplies at the conclusion of a restoration  effort. We donate food, beverages, paper  products and other supplies to area food  banks, community pantries and other social  service agencies to aid customers as they  recover following a storm.  In August"
"2024, a historic storm knocked  out power for over 400,000 customers in  Northeast Ohio. Working with the Greater  Cleveland Food Bank, the FirstEnergy  Foundation donated $100,000 to provide  Cleveland residents with nearly 1,000 shelf- stable meals, with another 2,000 meals going  to partner organizations. The grant also  helped restock the Mobile Pantry with fresh  vegetables once power was restored.  Corporate Sponsorships We’re proud to support sports teams and  special events across our"
"service area. From  races to reading programs, we're powering  fun and beloved traditions throughout our  communities. For example, FirstEnergy has been a  major sponsor of the Akron Marathon, Half  Marathon and Team Relay since its inception  in 2003. The elite race draws nearly 8,000  runners and 100,000 spectators annually  and had a $6 million economic impact to  the City of Akron in 2024. We also team up  with local sports organizations, supporting  important community initiatives like the"
"Akron  RubberDucks’ annual elementary-school  reading program. Since 2012, we’ve also  sponsored the International Soap Box Derby,  which welcomed more than 320 competitors  from the United States, Canada and Japan in  2024. 42% Health & Safety 21% Education 18% Civic 8% Sustainability 8% Other 3% Arts &  Culture 2024 FirstEnergy Foundation   Spend by Category Strengthening the Communities We Serve $6.7M FIRSTENERGY FOUNDATION Supporting 552  organizations $263K HARVEST FOR HUNGER Providing"
"+1.8M meals  to nourish communities $5.1M CORPORATE CONTRIBUTIONS Supporting 379  organizations $445K MATCHING GIFTS Amplifying 9,169  employee gifts $2.1M UNITED WAY CAMPAIGN Supporting 101   UW agencies & 888  employee-choice agencies 26K  HOURS EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERING Making our   communities brighter  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 29 Employee Volunteerism FirstEnergy’s"
"commitment to responsible business emphasizes  the importance of investing our time and resources to support  the communities we serve. Our employees light the way in their  communities every day, and our company encourages community  engagement through company-sponsored events and our VTO  program.  In 2024, FirstEnergy employees contributed over 26,000 hours  volunteering for organizations across the company’s service territory.  These hours, along with robust engagement in employee-driven"
"giving  campaigns, are a testament to the commitment, compassion and  ownership employees feel as vital members of our communities to  make a positive impact on those around them.  Leaders and employees throughout the company are also actively  engaged on nonprofit boards and encourage wider community  engagement by organizing major fundraising events, including the  Walk to End Alzheimer’s, the Diversity Center of Northeast Ohio Walk,  Rock, Roll and Run and various American Heart Association"
"Heart  Walks across our service territory. Spotlight on Employee Volunteerism With approximately 34,000 trees planted  in 2024, FirstEnergy's Green Teams  significantly surpassed their goal of  planting 25,000 trees. The Green Teams,  who lead tree planting and donation  events across FirstEnergy's footprint,  are formed by employees in various  roles across the organization who  volunteer their time together to support  environmental causes.  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and"
"Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 30 Economic Development FirstEnergy’s service territory offers an  attractive destination for a variety of energy- intensive industries, ranging from automotive  and manufacturing to life sciences and data  centers. As economic development interest in  FirstEnergy’s region grows, we are dedicated  to promoting initiatives that bring value to the  communities and customers we serve, and  we’re"
"working closely with these industries  to ensure they have the power required to  support their growth. Working closely with businesses to help  them thrive in our region is an important  component of our success. Moving into 2025,  our Economic Development team is making  several enhancements to better assist  businesses in identifying the optimal mix of  advantages within the states and regions  we serve. This includes access to markets,  local suppliers, transportation services,  favorable"
"tax rates, a skilled workforce and a  competitive energy strategy. Recognized as one of the nation’s  leading utilities in promoting large-scale  development, FirstEnergy is well positioned  to support new residential, commercial and  industrial growth — including the power- intensive needs of data centers in our region.  From 2023 to 2024, large load studies greater  than 500 MW tripled. Using a data-driven  approach, our Economic Development and  Customer teams continue developing greater"
"insights that will help us provide more value  to current and prospective commercial and  industrial customers for many years to come. Each region we serve is an incredible tapestry. And when a new  thread comes along, our job is to know exactly where to place it. – Felicia King, Director, Economic Development  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 31 Customer Experience  Our"
"commitment to customers drives our  innovation. To help meet or exceed our  customers’ expectations in all interactions  with them, we’re using a data-driven  approach to develop a more modern,  effortless and consistent customer  experience. As a result, our customers now  benefit from enhanced customer service  capabilities, self-service options and  payment methods. Customer-Focused Communications  As part of our efforts to enhance customer  experience, we are always working  to consistently"
"communicate with our  customers, providing them with relevant  information and resources that help them  manage their electric service. Our Customer  Connections eNewsletter for residential  customers keeps our valued customers up to  date throughout the year. Customers can also  follow our social media accounts to get tips  to save energy, manage their electric account  and stay safe around electricity; information  on bill assistance programs and payment  options; a behind-the-scenes look at"
"our  employees in action in our communities; and  company news. Our electric companies also  share updates during significant weather  events.  Payment Assistance Programs We are focused on meeting the needs of  our customer base and seeking solutions for  everyone we serve. As part of that effort, we  offer payment assistance and emergency  support programs to help customers budget  monthly payments, pay winter heating bills,  catch up on past-due payments and avoid  service disconnections."
"Using our website,  customers can search for assistance options  based on location, household size and  income.  By analyzing historical data, we can pinpoint  eligible individuals who may benefit from  assistance programs. These programs are  specifically designed to support customers  who have never participated in these  programs before or those facing the imminent  threat of disconnection. This proactive  approach not only ensures better customer  support but also fosters a stronger sense of"
"community and social responsibility while  strengthening our commitment to service  excellence. Spotlight on Innovation FirstEnergy has been using a new  cloud-based system to manage  customer interactions across  one platform. We continue to  enable modern features of the  new technology to enhance and  streamline the customer experience  and unlock value.  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports"
"and  Resources 32 Sustainable Supply Chain  Our supply chain strategy is focused on championing a culture of  responsible business among our employees, promoting supplier  diversity and improving our suppliers’ performance. We work to  implement our strategy while demonstrating high standards for ethics  and integrity — all with the goal of driving business unit success and  creating value for FirstEnergy. Our sustainable supply chain strategy includes collaborating with  suppliers to achieve"
"our goals and demonstrate the value of a  sustainable supply chain, as well as developing a program focused  on improving supplier performance, achieving goals and managing  supplier risks. Every day, we purchase goods and services from hundreds of  different suppliers, and our local connections make a direct economic  impact on the communities where our employees and customers live  and work. This proactive business strategy helps to establish a broad  and representative supplier base that"
"enables us to keep projects  moving.    Supply Chain Ethics, Compliance and Oversight  Ethics and integrity are central to our Supply Chain group. Our  Supplier Code of Conduct, The Power of Collaboration, establishes  business standards our suppliers must meet in their day-to-day  activities and reinforces our expectation that suppliers use good  judgment and act with integrity in their business dealings with  FirstEnergy. The Supplier Code of Conduct is embedded in the  contracts we establish"
"with each of our suppliers and is going through  a yearly revision to make it more impactful to readers. We enhanced our Third-Party Risk Management program which  seeks to ensure that risks associated with the use of third parties  are identified, understood and appropriately mitigated. For example,  we’ve made improvements by using technological solutions to  continuously monitor our suppliers.  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities"
"Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 33 We strive to protect the environment by minimizing our impact, improving the sustainability of our operations and finding opportunities to  enhance the ecosystems we interact with.  Environmental Impact  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 34 Environmental Policies, Oversight and Compliance We expect all"
"employees and contractors to adhere to our environmental policies. We have  multiple strategies in place, including an environmental management system, to help ensure  we continue to abide by all regulatory compliance requirements. We also provide employee  education through tools such as annual training and daily environmental messages for  employees.  FirstEnergy’s Environmental group focuses on environmental compliance and managing a  range of environmental issues, from responsibly handling"
"waste to reducing infrastructure- related risks to avian species. The policies we’ve established, and their related initiatives, foster  employee awareness, provide guidance, define responsibilities and outline our strategy for  mitigating environmental impacts. Environmental Policy FirstEnergy is committed to protecting  and preserving the natural environment  while promoting a sustainable future for  the customers and communities it serves.  As responsible stewards of the natural  resources"
"impacted by its operations,  the Company is committed to fulfilling  this responsibility for current and future  generations by conducting its operations  in accordance with the principles in this  policy.    Environmental Justice Policy FirstEnergy recognizes its responsibility  to address environmental justice  with stakeholders, communities, and  customers. This policy reflects the  Company’s intent to actively engage  stakeholders in the decision-making  process regarding environmental and"
"health issues within its service territory.  The Company will continue to refine  the policy’s strategic framework, which  includes procedures, measurements,  communication, and implementation.   With these policies as a foundation, board- and executive-level oversight helps ensure the  transparency and accountability of our environmental initiatives while also ensuring those  initiatives are carefully aligned with the company’s strategy and commitment to responsible  business. We also"
"incentivize our environmental performance by including an Environmental KPI metric in  the Operations Index of our short-term incentive program. Our Environmental KPI metric tracks  any regulatory reportable air emission, water discharge or other unauthorized release that  exceeds applicable environmental limitations, conditions and deadlines set by federal, state  or local regulations. Our threshold, target and stretch goals for this metric are developed in a  manner to foster continuous"
"improvement.  As our trend of KPI events continues to  decrease, the targets established also  decrease with the stretch goal designed to  encourage significant improvement in our  commitment to making the environment  better. Including these environmental  metrics in our Operations KPIs enhances  employees’ awareness of and attention  to environmental compliance and drives  continuous improvement across all areas of  our business. Please see our data table for  our Environmental metrics."
"Compliance Excellence Compliance excellence is a key principle  of FirstEnergy’s approach to protecting the  environment and mitigating the impact of  our operations. Various levels of oversight  help ensure that we are complying with all  federal, state and local laws and regulations  applicable across our footprint. To help ensure compliance with all  environmental regulatory requirements, we  perform environmental inspections and use  an environmental management system for  our power"
"generation operations that tracks  our regulatory requirements and prompts  responsible parties to complete each  required task. We use a geo-referenced  software to help maintain adherence to our  project-based permits and compliance  requirements for distribution and transmission  projects.   About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 35 Biodiversity and Conservation Biodiversity"
"Commitment and Conservation Practices As we build and maintain our infrastructure to help ensure reliable electric service for our  customers, we collaborate with and support a range of organizations dedicated to habitat  conservation across approximately 128,000 manageable acres. Our corporate Biodiversity  Commitment guides our actions to protect wildlife and support habitat conservation. Our  commitment includes using IVM best practices to establish and maintain a mixture of grasses,  shrubs"
"and other vegetation that yields thriving, biodiverse habitats in our transmission  corridors. Through continued collaboration with industry groups and research institutes, we  continuously work to improve utility and vegetation management best practices. Spotlight on Green Initiatives In 2024, FirstEnergy celebrated a  milestone in its commitment to the  environment — planting our 100,000th  donated tree. The achievement came  fewer than five years after we launched  our tree planting and"
"donation  program in 2020. With half of our  plantings focused on underserved and  overburdened neighborhoods within  our service areas, the program helps  improve neighborhood aesthetics and  air quality while providing shade by  increasing the tree canopy. Integrated Vegetation Management As of January 2024, FirstEnergy is one of  only nine electric companies in the country  to be recognized as a fully-accredited  ROW Steward for our Integrated Vegetation  Management practices by the Right-of-"
"Way Stewardship Council (ROWSC). As  the largest electric utility to be recognized,  we’re proud to be named an industry leader  in responsible ROW management, and  we’ll continue to promote the use of IVM  in our transmission corridors, improving  habitats and providing ecological benefits for  pollinators and other wildlife as a result. Our Vegetation Management team employs  IVM to evaluate our transmission corridors  and assess tall-growing, woody vegetation  that can interfere with"
"transmission lines  and equipment. The team develops and  implements corresponding controls such  as herbicide application, manual pruning  and mowing, removing trees and brush as  necessary.  The tracking and reporting of herbicides  through our CCC process sets high  standards for our IVM program. Using this  standardization process across the entire  system enhances safety and productivity,  improves compliance priorities and public  education, and decreases liability.  Our IVM process aligns"
"with our Biodiversity  Commitment and includes the use of  ecologically focused management practices  that foster compatible, low-growing and  biodiverse plant communities that require  less maintenance in the long run. This helps  us reduce costs and provide more reliable  service to our customers. IVM also enables FirstEnergy to use our  extensive transmission corridors to enhance  a healthy population of bees, butterflies and  other pollinating insects, which play a critical  role in"
"sustaining a healthy environment.  We believe well-managed rights-of-way that  exceed minimum standards of care can  provide the food and cover that wildlife needs  to survive. The New Construction team has  also promoted diverse, early successional  habitats of native species, spreading region- specific pollinator seed mix in place of  traditional grass mixes across our footprint.   About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact"
"Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 36 Avian Protection Birds of prey, like ospreys and eagles, often  seek out our utility poles and transmission  towers to build their nests and perch. These  tendencies place the birds near energized  electrical equipment, which jeopardizes  their well-being and potentially cause power  outages. Because our utility infrastructure  naturally attracts larger raptors, we have a  long-standing commitment to protect birds of  prey from harm that can result"
"from contact  with our equipment. FirstEnergy's Environmental team and  utility personnel routinely inspect power  equipment, like utility poles, substations  and transmission towers, for bird nests. Our  avian protection process helps us identify  and respond efficiently to bird activity along  our power lines. Our drone team often plays  a key role in our avian protection process,  using drones to safely evaluate the situation  while maintaining required buffers and not  disturbing nests that"
"may contain eggs. This  provides us with key information on how to  handle the situation and plan the next steps. Over the past five years, FirstEnergy and its  electric companies have completed more  than 100 projects to protect birds of prey,  like eagles and ospreys. The work includes  installing nesting deterrents or perch arms  near electrical equipment where birds prefer  to nest or temporarily rest, insulating power  lines near perch or nest locations and adding  large, bright visual"
"markers on power lines to  alert birds to the wires. Spotlight on Conservation and Pollination As part of our commitment to be good stewards of our environment and  communities, we introduced an initiative in 2020 to create and maintain  pollinator gardens across FirstEnergy’s footprint. The program aims to  replace traditional grass seed with native pollinator seed mixes after initial clearing  activities on the ROW. As of year-end 2024, our employees have helped create 41 community pollinator"
"gardens and meadows, as well as 28 pollinator gardens at FirstEnergy locations.  We’ve achieved our goal to create 225 acres of biodiverse habitats on utility ROW  and company properties across our service area by 2025 — planting more than   242 acres of newly created pollinator habitat.  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 37 Waste Management  Waste Management and Reduction"
"Providing our customers with reliable  electricity requires that we responsibly and  effectively manage the waste that results  from our operations as we also find ways  to minimize future waste and expand our  recycling and reuse efforts. Waste streams  at FirstEnergy include, but are not limited  to, municipal waste, universal waste and  hazardous waste. We work to reduce, reuse  and recycle the waste we generate through  several initiatives including the programs  described below. As part of"
"our commitment  to compliance excellence, we track waste  generated from our operations and submit  periodic reports to regulatory agencies.   Utility Pole Recycling Program  Wood utility poles are one of FirstEnergy’s  largest waste streams, contributing  thousands of tons of waste each year.  Through our Wood Pole Diversion Program,  all operating companies across FirstEnergy’s  service territory now divert the poles from  landfills into various reuse and recycling  options available in each"
"state. Since the  beginning of the pilot phase, we have  diverted over 7,500 tons of wood poles,  which found new life in farmers’ fields and  parks or were milled into lumber.  Recycling and Investment Recovery Program  At our Investment Recovery Department,  located at the Miles Service center, we  manage the company’s surplus assets,  primarily wire and cable, through reuse,  refurbishment and sale. By repairing or  processing material and products for reuse,  we reduce new material purchases"
"while  creating less landfill waste and mitigating our  environmental impact.  In 2024, our Investment Recovery employees  recycled over 1,500 wooden reels and  respooled 450 reels of cable and wire for  reuse throughout the company. They also  processed over 3.3 million pounds of scrap  metal, wire and cable that was sold for a net  benefit of $2.8 million.  Consumer and Electronic Waste Recycling  Programs Across our companywide operations,  FirstEnergy recycles company electronic  waste, such"
"as computers and phones.   Spotlight on Restoring and Repurposing Land for Beneficial Use FirstEnergy is proud to repurpose otherwise unusable land for renewable  generation in West Virginia. Mon Power and Potomac Edison have situated  the Rivesville solar site on a closed ash disposal site formerly used for  the retired Rivesville Power Station. The Marlowe solar site is located on  a reclaimed ash disposal site formally used by the retired R. Paul Smith  Power Station. Pending approval, the"
"Davis solar site will be located on a  reclaimed strip mine. 1. Excluding single-stream paper 2. Such as paper, cardboard, plastic and mixed metals 25 tons Recycled e-waste 422 tons Recycled shredded paper1 1,503 tons Recycled, single-stream  recyclables2  2024 Recycling Efforts  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 38 Water Management Our Approach Though we do not operate in a"
"critical water  area, water is essential to our operations. Our  water management approach focuses on  both water quantity and quality — and serves  as a prime demonstration of our commitment  to environmental stewardship. We maintain a rigorous compliance process  to meet all permitting rules and regulations.  In accordance with our 24 facility National  Pollutant Discharge Elimination System   permits, we closely monitor a wide range  of quantity and quality metrics and report  findings to"
"Department of Environmental  Protection agencies of New Jersey, Ohio,  Pennsylvania, Maryland and West Virginia.  We also strive to comply with all federal,  state and local permits required for our  transmission and distribution projects. Power Generation Water Quantity  Management Water quantity management involves  ensuring we have enough water to run  our two regulated coal-fired power plants,  reducing water withdrawal and use where  possible, and monitoring water releases to  help ensure"
"we’re doing our part to use water  responsibly in our communities. Both of our regulated coal-fired plants —  Harrison and Fort Martin — function with  100% closed-cycle cooling systems (with  cooling towers), which use approximately  90% less water compared to once-through,  open-cycle cooling systems. This has helped  our regulated generation fleet avoid about  90 billion gallons in water withdrawals every  year, reducing our use of this important  natural resource. We also run additional"
"reuse processes  at both Harrison and Fort Martin to further  minimize water use at the plants. At Harrison,  we collect landfill wastewater — called  leachate — and recycle 50% for use in the  scrubber while carefully treating the rest  before safe release to the West Fork River.  This process reduces the amount of water  we withdraw from the river for use in the  scrubber by about 144,000 gallons per  day, or approximately 52.5 million gallons  annually. At Fort Martin, we run a similar"
"recycling project to return leachate for use  in the cooling tower, which reduces the  amount of water we withdraw from the local  river by about 88,200 gallons per day, or  approximately 32 million gallons annually. Power Generation Water Quality Management Water quality management involves closely  monitoring the contents of water used at our  two plants, carefully managing wastewater,  and appropriately cleaning and treating water  to remove metals and other compounds  before release. We"
"monitor water releases to  help ensure we’re protecting surface water  and groundwater in the areas where our  plants operate and aligning with compliance  standards set by the West Virginia  Department of Environmental Protection and  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.   About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 39 The scrubber process at our Harrison plant  is a zero-discharge"
"system, which means we  release no water as part of those operations.  Maximizing the benefit of this system, a  portion of the landfill leachate water at  Harrison is consumed in the zero-discharge  process while the remainder is treated before  release. At Fort Martin, we use sophisticated  water treatment methods to remove metals  and other compounds before release. Transmission and Distribution Water  Management and Protection  In our transmission and distribution  operations, we also take"
"special care to  minimize our impact on the quantity and  quality of natural water resources.  During the planning and siting of projects,  we employ a permitting review process  to minimize environmental impacts of  construction activities and daily operations.  While conducting that process and pursuing  the permits required by federal, state and  local regulations, we survey for sensitive  environmental resources. This survey also  assesses the area for potential rare species’  habitats"
"located in and around existing and  proposed ROW.  Our top goal is always to avoid any impact  on wetland and stream habitats. First, we  evaluate project plans alongside the wetland  and stream data collected from field surveys.  After careful consideration, we then choose  options and construction practices that avoid  any sensitive resources identified in the field  survey. However, when it is impossible to  avoid a habitat, we take action to minimize  and mitigate potential impacts, as"
"warranted.  Additionally, we develop storm water pollution  prevention plans as part of our transmission  and distribution project planning process.  These prevention plans are project specific  and rely on best practices for both preventing  erosion from stormwater runoff and protecting  the quality of local waterways and tributaries  from construction-related silt and sediment.  Plans are developed by our Environmental  group and provided to the Construction &  Design Services group for"
"implementation,  and we manage a compliance monitoring  program to help ensure compliance with all  applicable stormwater pollution prevention  rules and regulations.   About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 40 Non-GHG Air Emissions  We strive to mitigate our environmental  impact and increase the sustainability of our  operations. Additionally, we have invested  in environmental"
"controls to reduce the  impact of non-GHG emissions resulting from  electricity generation at our two regulated  coal plants.  Fort Martin Power Station Environmental  Measures At Fort Martin, each unit has a scrubber  system that removes just under 98% of the  sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions. As part of  the scrubber system, a Physical-Chemical  Wastewater Treatment System removes solids  and metals from the scrubber wastewater.  The scrubbed flue gas produces a steam  plume that is carried from"
"the units through a  chimney. The station is also equipped with electrostatic  precipitators, which in conjunction with the  scrubber remove 99% of the fly ash from  flue gases, and low nitrogen oxides (NOx)  burners, which reduce NOx emission by  50%. We’ve also installed GORE technology  on both units to aid in mercury reduction. In addition, each unit is equipped with a  hyperbolic cooling tower that reduces the  temperature of approximately 250,000  gallons of water per minute. A plume of"
"water vapor leaves the top of the tower while  cooled water collects at the base where it is  mixed with fresh water and recycled leachate  to make up for evaporative losses of the  water vapor leaving the tower. Harrison Power Station Environmental Measures We have also invested in Harrison’s environmental control systems. All three units are equipped  with a scrubber system, located between the boilers and the chimney, that remove more than  98% of the SO2 emissions. In addition, Harrison uses"
"a hydrated lime injection system to  reduce sulfur trioxide (SO3). All three units are equipped with low NOx burners and selective catalytic reduction (SCR)  systems for removal of nitrogen oxides from the flue gases. The SCR systems transform  nitrogen oxides into nitrogen, which becomes part of the ambient air and water. These systems  remove at least 90% of nitrogen oxide emissions from the flue gas. In addition, Harrison is equipped with electrostatic precipitators, which in conjunction with"
"the  scrubber remove 99% of the fly ash from flue gases. In addition, each of the two hyperbolic  cooling towers reduce the temperature of approximately 270,000 gallons of water per minute. A  plume of water vapor leaves the top of the tower while cooled water collects at the base where  it is mixed with fresh water and recycled leachate to make up for evaporative losses of the  water vapor leaving the tower.  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and"
"Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 41 Our approach to governance includes maintaining oversight of significant company issues and strengthening risk management; building a  strong, centralized corporate compliance program; ensuring a culture of ethics and integrity; continuing stakeholder engagement efforts; and  providing consistent, transparent disclosures. Governance  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and"
"Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 42 Board of Directors Our Board of Directors provides oversight  and guidance to help FirstEnergy execute its  business strategy, including key corporate  responsibility initiatives, and fulfill the  company’s mission to make customers’  lives brighter, the environment better and  our communities stronger. As part of that  effort, the Board also provides oversight  and guidance on environmental, social and  governance"
"topics significant to the company  while ensuring our business strategy, goals  and decision making reflect and align with  our corporate responsibility priorities. In  addition, the Board collaborates with our  management team to keep integrity and  safety central to everything we do, drive  accountability across the company and  increase transparency with our stakeholders. The Board has five standing committees,  each of which solely comprise independent  directors where required by our"
"corporate  governance policies, the New York Stock  Exchange listing standards and applicable  Securities and Exchange Commission rules.  Each committee has clear roles and oversight  responsibilities as described in their charter’s  linked below:   •    Audit Committee  •      Compensation Committee  •       Governance, Corporate Responsibility  and Political Oversight Committee •       Finance Committee •     Operations and Safety Oversight  Committee Additionally, our Corporate Governance"
"Policies and Board committee charters  describe duties and responsibilities with  respect to ethics and integrity, including  governance practices and guidance for  making organizational changes within the  Board. Please see our Board of Directors page for  additional details, including biographical  information and expanded oversight  responsibilities. For information on our  current directors’ attributes, experience,  qualifications and skills, please view the skills  matrix provided in our"
"Proxy Statement. Spotlight on Board  Representation and  Qualifications Board members are highly qualified  individuals, representing a balanced  mix of tenure, thought, perspective,  background and experiences. The Board  is periodically refreshed with the addition  of candidates whom we believe bring  new ideas and fresh perspectives into the  boardroom. Gender 4 6 40%  Female Differing  gender,  race and  ethnicity 5 5 50% Director Composition  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees"
"and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 43 Ethics and Compliance Ethics and Compliance Oversight Integrity is as foundational to our business as safety, and our Board  works in lockstep with the company’s management team to help  ensure a culture of ethics and integrity in line with FirstEnergy’s  corporate policies and Code of Conduct. All our leaders and  employees play a critical role in creating an environment where our"
"business practices include helping individuals do the right thing and  treating our coworkers, customers and communities with respect.  FirstEnergy’s Code of Conduct, The Power of Integrity, lays the  foundation for what we expect from all employees and reflects our  collective commitment to keep integrity at the forefront of everything  we do.  The Power of Integrity applies to all FirstEnergy employees, officers  and directors, regardless of role, seniority or tenure at the company.  All"
"employees hold responsibility for understanding and following  the Code, and anyone whose actions are found to be inconsistent  with it will be held accountable and may be subject to disciplinary  action. Our incentive compensation program includes an ethics and  compliance performance modifier for all non-bargaining, non-physical  employees to drive employee accountability and reinforce the  importance of a strong culture of ethics and integrity.  Compliance Program Overview The Office of"
"Ethics & Compliance (OEC) oversees compliance across  the organization, specifically focusing on related assurance, training,  and communications. Under its guidance, we continue to embed a  culture of uncompromising integrity and ethical behavior throughout  the company. Key components of our efforts include: •        Centralizing compliance assurance activities within a single  organization under the leadership of the Chief Ethics and  Compliance Officer.  • Building strong compliance"
"processes, policies and controls.  • Strengthening the channels for concern reporting and further  maturing our processes to address concerns. •     Seeking continuous improvement by monitoring, benchmarking  and incorporating an independent assessment of our program.  •      Increasing transparency and accountability around FirstEnergy’s  political and public policy engagement. Manager, Assurance Manager, Training &  Communications Risk Assessments Practices & Procedures Dashboards & Surveys"
"Training Communications Reliability Compliance Risk Controls &  Investigations CIP Compliance Director, NERC Director, Ethics & Complaince   and Chief Privacy Officer Centralized  Investigations Reporting Analytics,  Systems Political Compliance FERC & State  Compliance VP and Chief Ethics &  Compliance Officer Prevention Governance  & Leadership  Engagement • Audits and Monitoring • Risk Assessment •       Surveys •       Analytics Centralized Compliance Approach •     Investigations •"
"Discipline •    Corrective Actions •    Culture •       Training •      Communications •        Policies  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 44 Conduct and Concerns Management for  Speak-Up Resources have seen important  changes as a result.  The Ethical Perceptions Survey FirstEnergy conducts an Ethical Perceptions  Survey to better understand employee  perceptions of ethics"
"and compliance (E&C)  issues and culture. Leaders share survey  insights with employees and implement  action plans to promote continuous  improvement. The survey measures  employee perceptions aligned to the  following eight pillars of ethical culture:   Employee Training and Communications As we mature, we continue to implement  more robust, best-practice approaches to  training and communications on ethics and  compliance issues. We request feedback  from employees on how to improve, and"
"these insights can lead to changes and  enhancements to the program. This approach  helps ensure consistent understanding and  implementation of expectations.  The OEC leads training on the compliance  processes, policies and controls we have in  place, such as the Code of Conduct, gifts  and entertainment requirements, conflicts of  interest and reporting concerns.  Employee feedback can be an important  guide for developing content updates, and  the training modules for both the Code of  •"
"Awareness of the  E&C Program and  Resources  • Perceptions of the  Function  • Observing  and Reporting  Misconduct  • Pressure  •     Organizational  Justice  •      Manager  Perceptions  • Perceptions of  Leadership  •   Perceptions  of Peers and  Environment  Ethics and Compliance Concern Reporting Our employees share a responsibility  to foster and contribute to a culture that  places compliance, ethics and integrity  at the forefront of everything we do. That  responsibility requires that"
"employees act  with integrity and speak up when they see or  suspect a violation of the law, The Power of  Integrity, or company policies, procedures  or practices. Employees with information  about an actual or suspected violation have  At the end of 2024, Ethisphere  awarded FirstEnergy Compliance  Leader Verification™ status for 2025  and 2026. This designation reflects  that FirstEnergy's corporate ethics  and compliance program, initiatives  and corporate culture meet or exceed  stringent"
"criteria reflective of best  practices. an obligation to bring that concern to the  company’s attention.  We strive to make it as easy as possible  for employees to ask a question or report  a concern. The following channels are  available and identified in The Power of  Integrity: the employee’s own Supervisor,  another Supervisor (of any level), the OEC,  Human Resources, Legal, Internal Audit,  Corporate Security, Executive Council and  the Board of Directors. In addition, we maintain"
"anonymous reporting  channels that are visible and widely available  to employees. Employees who wish to report  anonymously can do so by contacting our  Employee Concerns Helpline or by going to  the EthicsPoint website. The Employee Concerns Line and EthicsPoint  website are managed by an independent  third-party organization that helps personnel  communicate sensitive, and sometimes  confidential, information to the company. The  organization is staffed by professionals who  are trained to"
"protect anonymity and handle  concerns discreetly and confidentially.   About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 45 Political and Public Policy Engagement As an electric company obligated to provide reliable and affordable  power to customers, FirstEnergy has a legitimate stake in public policy  outcomes and a responsibility to advocate for public policy issues that  impact the"
"company and its stakeholders. Our approach also includes  oversight and disclosure of the company’s advocacy. We engage  thoughtfully and responsibly as we advocate for our interests and  attempt to effect positive change for the customers and communities  we serve.  Our Political & Public Engagement Policy guides that principled  engagement by providing strong, clear expectations for the company,  its directors, officers, employees and those acting on the company’s  behalf. In addition, in"
"conjunction with the responsibilities of the  full Board, the Governance, Corporate Responsibility and Political  Oversight Committee Charter includes robust oversight requirements  of the company’s Political and Lobbying Action Plan. Corporate Engagement Report As we develop FirstEnergy’s strategies, programs and positions  regarding a variety of issues that affect the company, we seek  insight from various stakeholder groups, including local, state and  federal policymakers, consumer and"
"small-business advocates, peer  utilities, customers, investors, NGOs, chambers of commerce, trade  associations and most importantly, our customers. We are committed  to considering and balancing all our company’s strategies and goals  when assessing and developing our positions on proposed legislation  and regulations. Our Corporate Engagement Report provides insight into our public  policy engagement and advocacy in alignment with our commitment  to the highest standards of business conduct"
"and ethical behavior  as the foundation for achieving our mission. The report also  encompasses information related to direct and indirect lobbying  activities, including contributions to 501(c)(4) organizations and  to 501(c)(6) trade organizations, where membership dues exceed  $25,000. That includes an evaluation of any pertinent alignment  between those organizations and our climate position and strategy.     FirstEnergy has a responsibility to advocate for public policy issues that impact"
"the company and our stakeholders — especially our customers. We are proud   to be recognized for our dedication to robust oversight and disclosure of our  political engagement activities, including a higher degree of involvement from our  Board of Directors. As a Model Code Company, we  will continue to practice responsible corporate citizenship, exhibit integrity   and transparency and drive positive change for our customers and communities. – Antonio Fernández, FirstEnergy Vice President and"
"Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 46 Stakeholder Engagement Our Approach Engaging with stakeholders is essential to safely, reliably and affordably meeting our customers’ needs and achieving our vision for a more  innovative and sustainable FirstEnergy. We engage with a wide range of stakeholders, including employees, customers, investors,"
"NGOs and  others. These engagement efforts help us to build important relationships, capture different perspectives and inform our strategies, programs  and policies on various issues. Stakeholder Engagement Efforts We’re committed to communicating clearly and openly with our stakeholders. The engagement  efforts described below help ensure we operate with the needs and concerns of our  employees, customers, investors, community members and others in mind.  •         Employees: We recognize that"
"our employees drive our strategy, culture and company  forward. With robust employee engagement, we can effectively attract, develop, engage  and retain an inclusive and high-performing workforce that is motivated to contribute to  FirstEnergy’s success.   •         Suppliers: We thoughtfully engage with our suppliers to help improve their performance  and achieve our vision for a diverse, sustainable and highly ethical supply chain that drives  business unit success and creates value for"
"FirstEnergy.   •     NGOs: We recognize the importance of engaging with various entities on a range of topics,  including resource adequacy, infrastructure needs, clean energy, electrification, energy  efficiency and environmental stewardship.   •      Investors: We believe it’s crucial to engage regularly with our investors to help ensure we  consider, and effectively address, the topics that matter most to them.   •        Customers: We’re committed to providing safe, reliable and affordable"
"electricity while  making our customers’ lives brighter. We strive to provide a superior customer experience by  continuing to identify opportunities to enhance and improve our existing services while also  anticipating future customer requests and technology needs.   •    Communities: We believe the greater good is better business and seek to develop sustainable  relationships with nonprofit partners to advance our philanthropic and stewardship goals.  Financial investments are leveraged to"
"build stronger, healthier and more vibrant communities.  Spotlight on Community  Engagement  We demonstrate our commitment  to our community through our  transmission project siting  process. FirstEnergy holds public  information meetings, staffed with  FirstEnergy professionals across  various departments, to engage  with stakeholders. FirstEnergy  meets individually with local, state  and federal officials and their staff;  local chambers of commerce and  other community organizations;  and"
"individual customers to provide  opportunities for input on the  community impacts of our projects.  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 47 Shareholder Outreach FirstEnergy has a long history of meaningful,  robust engagement with our shareholders.  We believe consistent, transparent  dialogue is essential to understand investor  feedback on a broad range of issues,  providing"
"valuable insights for our Board, its  committees and our management team into  investor perspectives and priorities. In addition to our proactive shareholder  engagement throughout the year, our  management team participates in numerous  investor conferences, and in both one-on-one  and group meetings.   We periodically meet with institutional  shareholders to discuss a variety of topics  including: •       Our strategic vision •  Board oversight of corporate governance •       Climate matters,"
"energy transition and  sustainable investments •       Federal and state regulatory matters  spanning our five-state service territory •       Financial and operational performance • Executive compensation •        Company culture •       Our political, lobbying and public policy  practices Representatives who participated in these  meetings over the past year have included  Board members, our CEO and leaders from  the Corporate Secretary, Finance, Human  Resources, Corporate Responsibility and"
"Investor Relations departments. Electricity powers more than just homes and businesses — it powers  our way of life. To build infrastructure that works best for communities,  we first build relationships in communities. At FirstEnergy, we actively  seek out voices, hosting dynamic stakeholder sessions both in  person and online. Experts from every corner of our company come  together to listen, learn and collaborate — so our work better reflects  the values, needs and aspirations of the people"
"we serve. – Amanda Mertens Campbell  FirstEnergy Vice President,  External Affairs  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 48 Enterprise Risk Management Managing risks and opportunities — from those related to evolving regulatory and market conditions to those associated with climate change  — is a vital component of our company's governance and oversight functions. Our"
"comprehensive ERM program helps ensure we understand  and mitigate potential risks that could have an impact on our business and key stakeholders while capitalizing on opportunities that align with  FirstEnergy's mission and business strategy. Risk Management Oversight  The ERM process is overseen by FirstEnergy leadership, the Board and its committees. Risk and opportunity management strategies are  presented to the Board committees on a short- and long-term basis, which enables each committee"
"to play an active role in the oversight  process. Board of Directors Provides oversight of risk management practices, reviews material company risks and helps ensure  processes are in place to support a strong risk management culture. Audit Committee   of the Board Oversees the ERM program and process for identifying, assessing, managing and monitoring  enterprise risks; ensures risks are appropriately communicated with the board and its committees;  oversees risks related to the specific"
"Committee responsibilities, including risks related to financial  statements, controls and reporting, as well as steps taken to monitor, control and mitigate such  exposures; reviews the risk management governance, guidelines, policies and procedures annually. Executive-level  Enterprise Risk  Management  Committee (ERMC) Provides oversight and monitoring to help ensure that appropriate risk policies and management  processes are established and executed; vets risk prioritization and mitigation"
"to help ensure that risks  — including climate-related ones — are managed in accordance with our expectations. Vice President and  Chief Risk Officer Provides highest executive-level oversight of day-to-day risk management efforts; prepares  enterprisewide risk management reports for presentation to the ERMC, Audit Committee and the full  Board; provides additional timely reports on significant risk issues as appropriate to employees, senior  leadership, respective Board committees and the"
"Board. Corporate Risk  Department Executes ERM process.  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 49 Risk Management Process  Our ERM framework consists of identification and assessment of the  company’s full enterprise-wide risk profile, clear risk ownership and  mitigation accountability, and continual monitoring and reporting. It  also enables the identification and capture of"
"strategic opportunities.  •      Risk Identification and Assessment  As part of our ERM identification and assessment process, we  categorize risks according to our risk taxonomy — strategic,  financial, operational, compliance and litigation, and reputational.  With subject matter expert support, we then assess risk size  and scope and make risk prioritization decisions by quantifying  potential impact, identifying time horizon for onset and assessing  likelihood of occurrence.      A summary"
"of FirstEnergy’s current material risks, including  climate-related risks, are included in our Annual Report. •       Monitoring and Managing Risks  Oversight and accountability are key facets of our ERM process  for monitoring and managing risks. We assign risk owners as  well as responsibilities for control and mitigation of risks. The  Corporate Risk department works with those owners cyclically as  part of our ERM process to evaluate risk controls and make any  necessary management"
"adjustments.       To understand the key risks that are managed through the ERM  process, please view the risk factors included in the Annual  Report and our 10-Q filings, which are posted on our Investor  Relations website. For details regarding how climate risks are  integrated into our ERM program, please read our climate story.  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 50"
"Physical and Cybersecurity FirstEnergy is committed to protecting its  employees, customers, facilities and the  ongoing reliability of the electric system. We  work closely with state and federal agencies  and our peers in the electric utility industry  to identify physical and cybersecurity risks,  exchange information and put safeguards,  including training, in place to comply with  strict reliability and security standards.  From a security standpoint, the electric  utility sector is one of"
"the most regulated  industries. We have comprehensive cyber  and physical security plans in place, but we  do not publicly disclose details about these  measures that could aid those who want to  harm our customers, our employees or our  assets.   Cybersecurity Oversight  FirstEnergy has established a broad  framework to assess, identify and manage  material risks from cybersecurity threats. This  program is established at the executive level,  with regular reporting to, and oversight by,  the"
"Board as described below. At the highest  level, FirstEnergy’s program includes multi- layered governance by management, the  Audit Committee, the Operations and Safety  Committee, and the Board, as described  below and in greater detail within the Annual  Report. Board-Level  Oversight Executive-Level  Oversight Cybersecurity  Team •       The Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing cybersecurity and  receives updates from the Vice President, Cyber Security, and Chief  Information"
"Security Officer (CISO) at a scheduled cadence. •      The Board's Audit Committee reviews cybersecurity risk management  practices and the Operations and Safety Oversight Committee reviews  cybersecurity operational performance, primarily through reports provided  by management, and reviews the steps taken to monitor, control and  mitigate cybersecurity risks. •  The Vice President, Cyber Security, and CISO provides regular  cybersecurity reports to the Board of Directors at scheduled Board"
"meetings and regularly updates the Audit Committee and Operations and  Safety Oversight Committee on a range of cybersecurity topics. •      A collaborative cross-departmental committee, comprised of leaders from  various business units, including Risk, Internal Audit, Information Security  and others, meets monthly to review and assess security metrics, major  security projects and security-related industry trends. •        Led by the Vice President, Cyber Security, and CISO, this team is"
"responsible for managing and implementing the cybersecurity strategy, as  well as training and education for all employees and contractors. •        The team is tasked with incident response and root cause analysis;  vulnerability mangement; risk assessments; regulatory compliance; security  application support; monitoring and alerting; and support and configuration  of cybersecurity hardware and software.  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities"
"Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 51 Cybersecurity Strategy and Process  FirstEnergy leverages industry best practices  to protect its information assets and employs  a layered defense-in-depth cybersecurity  strategy. The concept behind this strategy  is that if one layer of defense does not stop  an attack, there are other layers of additional  security measures in place. We are continuously and proactively  identifying and mitigating cybersecurity  threats —"
"not simply reacting to them. As  part of our cybersecurity efforts, we are: • Deploying devices that provide physical  and electronic protections, logging and  monitoring. • Using data analytics to help detect and  mitigate potential threats. •  Implementing third-party tests that  use “friendly” hackers to attack our  network, so we can validate our technical  cybersecurity control effectiveness and  address any deficiencies we identify. •  Leveraging available threat intelligence  to monitor"
"for the latest techniques used  by attackers. To support the need for continuous  monitoring and detection, our Transmission  Security Operations Center (TSOC) uses a  unique set of technologies to assess security  events from a physical, cyber and operational  technology perspective. The TSOC is  responsible for performing threat analysis;  conducting investigations; analyzing security  metrics and trends; reporting to company  leadership; and sharing security information  with industry,"
"government and regional  partners. Cybersecurity Education and Training Education and training for employees is critical to our cybersecurity program. All employees  are required to successfully complete annual cybersecurity awareness training, which includes  education on email and text-based phishing.  In addition to these required annual trainings, we test personnel continuously with simulated  phishing scams to help verify they can identify and avoid such attacks. Additional training is"
"assigned as needed. Cybersecurity policy training and elevated user training are required for all employees who are  approved for elevated levels of access to systems or information as a required job function. Beyond official training, we regularly educate our employees on cybersecurity matters. We  provide ongoing educational content through our internal portal and periodic educational  presentations.  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities"
"Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 52 Spotlight on Security Threats don’t always come directly from the internet. Physical  access to critical systems is also closely monitored, and we regularly  perform vulnerability assessments at sites across our footprint.  Substations and other critical infrastructure locations are increasingly  protected with physical barriers, surveillance technology and  around-the-clock monitoring at our Security Operations Center. Data"
"Privacy and Protection FirstEnergy has several policies and  programs in place for the protection of  sensitive information and the retention of  company records. These guide employees  on how to identify, classify and dispose of  company records. Examples of these include  the Enterprise Records Retention Policy,  Sensitive Information Policy, Secure Disposal  of Sensitive Information Policy, and Customer  Privacy Practice. In addition to these  practices and programs, FirstEnergy also  has"
"Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  (FERC) and North American Electric  Reliability Corporation (NERC) programs in  place to enforce reliability standards for the  North American bulk-power system and meet  compliance requirements for the protection of  sensitive information. Mitigating Physical and Cyber Risk Exposure Over the past several years, we have  witnessed a significant increase in the  frequency, scope and sophistication of  physical and cybersecurity attacks on critical"
"infrastructure. FirstEnergy invests heavily in  innovative and layered security measures  that use both technological and physical  barriers to protect critical transmission  facilities and our digital communications  networks.  As we modernize the grid with smart  technologies, for example, the operational  benefits come with increased risk of potential  threats. Digital systems like Supervisory  Control and Data Acquisition devices (used  to remotely monitor our systems in real  time), smart"
"meters and internet-enabled  streetlights offer significant improvements  in operations. But they also increase the  number of points where malicious actors can  try to gain access and compromise larger  systems. To mitigate these potential threats,  we build in additional safeguards to protect  our networks.     About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 53 Data Table 2022 2023 2024"
"Energy Owned Nameplate Generation Capacity (MW) Coal 3,082 3,082 3,082 Solar 0 0 24.4 Owned Gross Generation (MWh) Coal 18,398,665 16,872,328 15,665,952 Solar 0 0 29,937 Owned Net Generation (MWh) Coal 17,012,345 15,560,555 14,478,601 Solar 0 0 29,937 Purchased Net Generation (MWh) Total Wholesale Electricity Purchased 1 53,770,947 48,931,914 46,732,410 Emissions GHG Emissions: (MT CO2e) Scope 1 2      Stationary Combustion 16,401,242 15,088,854 13,905,260      Mobile Sources 47,072 38,194"
"38,651      Fugitive Emission (SF6) 87,311 80,316 74,823 Scope 2 3,4      Losses related to Transmission and Distribution 5 1,085,707 738,901      Company Facility Usage 5 55,154 63,984 Scope 3       Purchased Goods / Services and Capital Goods 5 1,351,879 2,280,908      Fuel and Energy-Related Activities 6 31,804,539 22,866,447 16,004,265      Waste Emissions 18,752 19,362 22,175      Business Travel 7,156 6,676 6,945 Other Air Emissions (MT) Total Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) Emissions 11,175 9,082"
"9,536 Total Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) Emissions 17,822 16,358 14,596 Total Mercury (Hg) Emissions 0.06 0.05 0.05 Emissions Intensity (lbs. CO2e/net MWh) Power Deliveries to Customers of FirstEnergy’s Operating Companies 7 936 733 744 Emissions (MT CO2e/net MWh) Owned Generation CO2e Emissions Intensity 0.964 0.970 0.958  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 54 Data Table continued"
"2022 2023 2024 Waste Waste Products  Non-Hazardous Industrial Waste Generated (MT) 15,441 30,078 45,203 Non-Hazardous Municipal Waste Generated (MT) 8 10,015 10,328 10,296 Hazardous Waste Disposed (MT) 5.90 4.99 4.40 Coal Combustion Residuals (CCR) Generated  (MT) 2,761,340 2,374,460 2,173,220 Percent CCR Recycled 21% 20% 19% Total CCR Impoundments 1 1 0 Environmental Compliance Number of Notice of Violations (NOVs) and Environmental Excursions 3 11 11 Water Fresh Water Resources  Total"
"Withdrawals (ML) 64,116 60,197 62,797 Generation Fresh Surface Water Withdrawals (ML) 34,613 31,299 32,430 Total Discharges (ML) 51,037 49,414 52,300 Total Consumption (ML) 12,200 10,783 10,497 Number of Water Permit Non-Compliance Events with Fines 1 11 0  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 55 Data Table continued 2022 2023 2024 Customers, Community and Economic Impact"
"Reliability Performance  Transmission Outage Frequency (TOF) .34 .29 .27 System Average Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI) 206.95 189.57 249.93 System Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI) 1.28 1.12 1.43 Customer Average Interruption Duration Index (CAIDI) 161.28 169.66 174.21 Customer Average Interruption Frequency Index (CAIFI) 9 1.91 1.91 2.19 Customer Service Metrics  First Contact Resolution 65.0% 60.6% 50.7% Customer Satisfaction 77.5% 78.0% 72.0% Customer Effort Score 77.4% 74.0%"
"66.0% Number of Residential Customer Electric Disconnections for Non-Payment 148,580 173,273 189,943 Customer Contact Center Metrics (M) Number of Customer Transactions 44.0 38.1 40.3 Number of Customer Calls 6.3 6.1 6.7 Retail Electric Customer Count at End of Year Residential 5,446,307 5,472,307 5,497,855 Commercial (including streetlight customers) 744,683 749,202 755,041 Industrial 23,087 22,316 19,097 Spend with Diverse Suppliers ($M) $385 $465 $598 Percent Diverse Supplier Spend 12.4%"
"13.0% 13.6% Spend with Local Suppliers ($M) $1,480 $1,663 $1,618 Percent Local Supplier Spend 47.5% 45.0% 36.8% Electric Distribution Deliveries (MWh in thousands) Total Electricity Delivered to Residential Customers 55,995 52,216 54,631 Total Electricity Delivered to Commercial Customers   (including streetlight customers) 36,317 34,891 39,021 Total Electricity Delivered to Industrial Customers 55,169 55,541 52,950 Transmission and Distribution (Circuit Miles) Transmission 24,080 24,114 24,143"
"Distribution 274,518 275,760 252,244 FirstEnergy Foundation ($M) FirstEnergy Foundation Giving $9.19 $5.88 $7.24 Investing in the Future Incremental Annual Electricity Savings from Energy Efficiency Measures (MWh) 584,961 652,208 767,789 Incremental Annual Investment in Electric Energy Efficiency Programs ($M) $122 $121 $201 Percent of Total Electric Customers with Smart Meters 45% 50% 61%  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental"
"Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 56 Data Table continued 2022 2023 2024 Workforce Employees by Generation 10 Boomer 18.5% 13.4% 11.1% Gen X 37.1% 36.4% 35.9% Millennial 38.4% 40.9% 42.4% Gen Z 6.1% 9.3% 10.6% Special Interest Groups 10 Individuals With Disabilities (IWD) 4.1% 4.1% 4.4% Protected Veterans  5.1% 7.9% 5.3% LGBTQ+  0.8% 1.1% 1.3% Labor Relations Employees Represented by a Union  41.7% 43.3% 38.0% For more cross-sectional workforce data, please refer to our EEO-1"
"Report     Hiring Internal Hires 34% 48% 36% External Hires 66% 52% 64% Military Hires 72 89 32 Turnover Employee Exits 856 1,131 699 Employee Turnover 7.1% 10% 5.7% Employee Voluntary Exits 2.5% 2.4% 2.2% Employee Involuntary Exits (%) 0.5% 1.3% .8% Employee Retirements (%) 4.1% 6.4% 2.7% Employee Development Number of Tracked Hours of Employee Training 554,003 672,530 460,413 Number of Employees Who Received Education Assistance Reimbursement 238 216 166 Amount Distributed for Employee"
"Education Assistance Reimbursement ($) $799,847 $703,888 $564,890 Employee Volunteerism Hours of Employee Volunteer Time Off (VTO) Used 19,976 20,907 21,416 Employees who Used VTO (%) 17% 22% 19% Safety Metrics Recordable Incident Rate 1.14 1.22 1.17 Lost-Time Case Rate .46 .50 .60 Days Away, Restricted or Transferred (DART) Rate .72 .74 .78 Life-Changing Events (LCEs) 0 0 1  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance"
"Data Table Reports and  Resources 57 Data Table continued 1      MWh purchased is netted against megawatt hours sold for Mon Power. 2 Excludes emissions from natural gas and other fuels used  for heating facilities, leakage of refrigerants used for cooling facilities and stagnant piles of coal sitting awaiting use in stationary combustion. 3 Location-based reporting methodology. Excludes emissions from natural gas and other fuels used for heating facilities and leakage of refrigerants use for"
"cooling office facilities. 4 Prior to 2023, we tracked scope 2 data by a location-based total without the granularity noted here. The scope 2 location-based total for 2022 was 874,650. 5     2023 is the first year calculating or reporting number. 6       2023 and 2024 calculations remove emissions related to owned generation. 7      FirstEnergy’s operating companies purchase all their electricity from the PJM market for resale to customers. Therefore, the resource mix used to calculate carbon"
"emissions for electricity purchased from a  FirstEnergy operating company is effectively the resource mix for the PJM market during the reporting period. For additional information, please visit EEI’s customer-based emissions intensity website. 8 Does not include wood. 9 CAIFI numbers exclude major events. 10 Generations’ year of birth: Boomer is <1943–1964, Gen X is 1965–1980, Millennial is 1981–1996, Gen Z is 1997 >. Demographic information is based on employee voluntary self-identification."
"LGBTQ+ is  an acronym for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer or questioning. Protected Veteran includes employees who self-identify with one or more of the following categories: disabled veteran; recently  separated veteran; active duty wartime or campaign badge veteran; or Armed Forces service medal veteran. 11      Includes women and minorities on board. 2022 2023 2024 FirstEnergy Board of Directors Total Board of Directors/Trustees 11 10 10 Women on Board of Directors/Trustees 3 4"
"4 Minorities on Board of Directors/Trustees 11 4 5 5 Percent Diverse 36% 50% 50% Board Meetings Held 18 11 10 Financials Total Revenues ($M) $12,459 $12,870 $13,472 Basic Earnings per Share Attributable to FE Corp (GAAP) ($) $0.71 $1.92 $1.70 Core Earnings per Share (Non-GAAP) ($) $1.78 $2.20 $2.37 Dividends Declared per Common Share $1.56 $1.60 $1.70  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and"
"Resources 58 Term Definition Business Travel GHG emissions from employee transportation for business-related activities Coal Combustion Residuals  (CCR) Primarily fly ash, bottom ash and either gypsum or Flue Gas Desulfurization (FGD) Material, depending on the type of scrubber at the  station Company Facility Usage GHG emissions related to electricity use in company-operated facilities Customer Average Interruption  Duration Index (CAIDI) Average duration of planned and unplanned interruptions"
"(average restoration time) during the data year Customer Average Interruption  Frequency Index (CAIFI) Average number of interruptions per customer during the data year Days Away, Restricted or  Transferred (DART) Rate OSHA-recordable incidents that involve days away from work, days of restricted work activity, and/or days of job transfer in the  period per 100 employees - includes work-related injuries or illnesses that result in at least one day of lost time, transfer or restriction  excluding"
"the days of injury Diverse Suppliers Suppliers who have at least 51% of their ownership in one or more of the diversity categories recognized by FirstEnergy (minority,  women, veteran, service disabled, HUBZone or LGBTQ). Electric Distribution Deliveries Amount of energy delivered to end customers FirstEnergy Foundation Spend from FirstEnergy Foundation grants and Matching Gifts only (excludes corporate charitable giving) Fuel and Energy-Related  Activities GHG emissions from extraction,"
"production and transportation of fuels and energy purchased or acquired (not already accounted for in  Scope 1 or Scope 2) Fugitive Emission (SF6) Sulfur hexafluoride gas that escapes from FirstEnergy owned equipment due to leaks or equipment malfunctions Generation Fresh Surface Water  Withdrawals Rate of water withdrawn from surface bodies like rivers, lakes and streams to be used in only generation facilities (Fort Martin and  Harrison) Hazardous Waste Disposed Waste designated by state and"
"federal RCRA regulations as hazardous that is disposed of according to appropriate regulations Life-Changing Events Includes life-threatening work-related injuries or illnesses that required immediate life-preserving rescue action, and if not applied  immediately would likely have resulted in the death of that person; life-altering work-related injuries or illnesses that resulted in a  permanent and significant loss of a major body part or organ, or function thereof, that permanently changes or"
"disables that person’s  normal life activity; and work-related fatalities. Local-Based Suppliers Suppliers who are corporately operated within FirstEnergy territory zip codes Losses related to Transmission  and Distribution GHG emissions due to loss of electricity through distribution or transmission equipment from generations sources to customer  locations  Lost-Time Case Rate Incident resulted in an employee's inability to work the next full workday. Mobile Sources GHG emissions from owned"
"vehicles (light-duty, heavy-duty, construction), aircraft fleet, and tugboats Non-Hazardous Industrial Waste  Generated Generated from industrial processes, such as electric power generation and electric power delivery, that do not include municipal  solid waste, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) hazardous waste, Toxic Substances and Control Act (TSCA) regulated  Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCBs) or CCRs Non-Hazardous Municipal Waste  Generated Generated from office-related activities"
"(i.e. trash or garbage) Notice of Violations (NOVs) &  Environmental Excursions Measures issues related to air emissions, water discharges or other unauthorized releases from facilities that exceed the allowable  limitations, conditions or deadlines established in the facilities' environmental permits and applicable NOVs issued by a federal, state,  or local regulatory agency for the violation of an environmental law or regulation Data Table continued  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition"
"Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 59 Term Definition Number of Tracked Hours of  Employee Training Tracked training included in human capital management system and third-party systems. Owned Gross Generation:  Megawatt-Hour (MWh) Total amount of electric energy produced by generating units Owned Nameplate Generation  Capacity: Megawatt (MW) Maximum rated output of an electric power production equipment under"
"specific conditions designated by the manufacturer  Owned Net Generation (MWh) Gross generation minus the electrical energy consumed at the generating station(s) for station service or auxiliaries Percent CCR Recycled Amount of CCR that is beneficially reused Purchased Goods / Services and  Capital goods GHG emissions from extraction, production and transportation of goods and services, including capital goods Purchased Net Generation  (MWh) MWh purchased for re-sale to customers (netted against"
"megawatt hours sold for Mon Power) Recordable Incident Rate Recordable injury or illness resulting from any of the following: death, days away from work, restricted work or transfer to another job,  medical treatment beyond first aid or loss of consciousness Scope 1 GHG Emissions Direct GHG from sources owned or controlled by an entity Scope 2 GHG Emissions Indirect emissions associated with purchased electricity consumed FirstEnergy and energy lost as it is transmitted through our network Scope"
"2 Location-Based Method Use regional default emission rates in calculation Scope 3 GHG emissions associated with purchased power for resale to end-use customers, purchased goods and services, field and energy,  waste, business travel and employee commuting Stationary Combustion GHG emissions from FirstEnergy's coal combustion plants System Average Interruption  Duration Index (SAIDI) Average duration of planned and unplanned system interruptions per utility customer served during the data year"
"System Average Interruption  Frequency Index (SAIFI) Average number of interruptions that a customer would experience during the data year Tier 1 Supplier A company that contracts directly with FirstEnergy to provide goods and services Tier 2 Supplier A company that provides products or services to a Tier 1 Supplier (then used to support their contracting directly with FirstEnergy) Total Water Withdrawals Rate of water withdrawn from surface bodies like rivers, lakes and streams to be used in"
"all facilities (East Lake, Fort Martin and  Harrison) Transmission Outage Frequency  (TOF) Measures the transmission line frequency of outages (total number of transmission circuit outages divided by average number of  circuits) on 100kV to 500kV circuits after adjustment for major events (Six Sigma). Transmission circuit outages are defined as any  loss of flow, momentary or sustained, that is a result of an automatic switching operation. Scheduled outages, emergency forced  outages, and"
"operational outages are excluded from the calculation. Waste Emissions GHG emissions from disposal and treatment of waste generated in the reporting company’s operations Water Consumption Water withdrawn and used at generation facilities (including evaporation) Water Discharges Rate of water discharged back to native stream (returned water from the withdrawal process and not consumed for use of generation  facilities) Data Table continued  About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and"
"Culture Customers and  Communitiess Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 60 Reports and Resources Reporting Standards Practicing responsible business requires that we be responsive to external stakeholders’ guidance and expectations regarding performance and  transparency. We are working toward aligning our environmental, social and governance disclosures with leading reporting initiatives, such as  the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), Taskforce on"
"Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and Edison Electric Institute  (EEI) Template.  Corporate  Responsibility Disclosures •   CR Data Table • 2022 Climate Report  •  2024 Corporate Responsibility Report •  2023 Corporate Responsibility Report •  2022 Corporate Responsibility Report Standards and Frameworks • EEO-1 Report •  SASB •  TCFD •  EEI Template •  2023 CDP Climate Report •       2023 CDP Water Report Corporate Policies  •     Biodiversity Commitment •       Conflict of Interest"
"Practice • Environmental Justice Policy •  Environmental Policy •  Human Rights Practice • Public and Political Engagement Policy •        The Power of Collaboration: Supplier  Code of Conduct • The Power of Integrity: Code of Conduct Internal Policies These policies are available to employees  but not shared publicly. • Anti-bribery Anti-corruption Practice  •        Employee Travel and Expense Practice  • Gifts and Business Courtesies Practice  •       Insider Trading Practice •      Social"
"Media Policy  For more information on corporate  governance, visit the Corporate Governance  page. For more information on financial results, visit  the Investor Relations page.    About  FirstEnergy Energy  Transition Employees  and Culture Customers and  Communities Environmental  Impact Governance Data Table Reports and  Resources 61 Forward-Looking Statements: This report includes forward-looking statements based on information currently available to management and unless the context"
"requires  otherwise, references to “we,” “us,” “our” and “FirstEnergy” refers to FirstEnergy Corp. and its subsidiaries. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties  and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. These statements include declarations regarding management's intents,  beliefs and current expectations. These statements typically contain, but are not limited to, the terms “anticipate,” “potential,” “expect,” forecast,"
"target, will, intend,  “believe,” project, “estimate, plan and similar words. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, assumptions, known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other  factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied  by such forward-looking statements, which may include the following: the potential liabilities, increased costs and unanticipated developments"
"resulting from government  investigations and agreements, including those associated with compliance with or failure to comply with the Deferred Prosecution Agreement entered into July 21,  2021 and settlements with the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Ohio and the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”); the risks and uncertainties  associated with government investigations and audits regarding Ohio House Bill 6, as passed by Ohio’s 133rd General Assembly (“HB 6”) and"
"related matters, including  potential adverse impacts on federal or state regulatory matters, including, but not limited to, matters relating to rates; the risks and uncertainties associated with litigation,  arbitration, mediation and similar proceedings, particularly regarding HB 6 related matters; changes in national and regional economic conditions, including recession,  volatile interest rates, inflationary pressure, supply chain disruptions, higher fuel costs, and workforce impacts,"
"affecting us and/or our customers and those vendors  with which we do business; variations in weather, such as mild seasonal weather variations and severe weather conditions (including events caused, or exacerbated, by  climate change, such as wildfires, hurricanes, flooding, droughts, high wind events and extreme heat events) and other natural disasters, which may result in increased  storm restoration expenses or material liability and negatively affect future operating results; the potential"
"liabilities and increased costs arising from regulatory actions or  outcomes in response to severe weather conditions and other natural disasters; legislative and regulatory developments, and executive orders, including, but not limited  to, matters related to rates, energy regulatory policies, compliance and enforcement activity, cyber security, climate change, and diversity, equity and inclusion; the ability  to access the public securities and other capital and credit markets in accordance"
"with our financial plans, the cost of such capital and overall condition of the capital and  credit markets affecting us, including the increasing number of financial institutions evaluating the impact of climate change on their investment decisions, and the loss of  FirstEnergy Corp.’s status as a well-known seasoned issuer; the risks associated with physical attacks, such as acts of war, terrorism, sabotage or other acts of violence,  and cyber-attacks and other disruptions to our, or our"
"vendors’, information technology system, which may compromise our operations, and data security breaches of  sensitive data, intellectual property and proprietary or personally identifiable information; the ability to accomplish or realize anticipated benefits through establishing  a culture of continuous improvement and our other strategic and financial goals, including, but not limited to, executing Energize365, our transmission and distribution  investment plan, executing on our rate filing"
"strategy, controlling costs, improving credit metrics, maintaining investment grade ratings, strengthening our balance sheet  and growing earnings; changing market conditions affecting the measurement of certain liabilities and the value of assets held in our pension trusts may negatively  impact our forecasted growth rate, results of operations and may also cause it to make contributions to its pension sooner or in amounts that are larger than currently  anticipated; changes in assumptions"
"regarding factors such as economic conditions within our territories, the reliability of our transmission and distribution system, our  generation resource planning in West Virginia, or the availability of capital or other resources supporting identified transmission and distribution investment opportunities;  human capital management challenges, including among other things, attracting and retaining appropriately trained and qualified employees and labor disruptions by  our unionized workforce;"
"mitigating exposure for remedial activities associated with retired and formerly owned electric generation assets, including those sites impacted  by the legacy coal combustion residual rules that were finalized during 2024, and the Environmental Protection Agency’s reconsideration of such rule; changes to  environmental laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, federal and state rules related to climate change, and potential changes to such laws and regulations as  a result of the"
"U.S. presidential administration; changes in customers’ demand for power, including, but not limited to, economic conditions, the impact of climate change,  emerging technology, particularly with respect to electrification, energy storage and distributed sources of generation; future actions taken by credit rating agencies  that could negatively affect either our access to or terms of financing or our financial condition and liquidity; the potential of non-compliance with debt covenants in our"
"credit facilities; the ability to comply with applicable reliability standards and energy efficiency and peak demand reduction mandates; changes to significant accounting  policies; any changes in tax laws or regulations, including, but not limited to, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, or adverse tax audit results or rulings and potential  changes to such laws and regulations as a result of the new U.S. presidential administration; the ability to meet our publicly-disclosed goals relating to"
"climate-related  matters, opportunities, improvements, and efficiencies, including FirstEnergy’s Greenhouse gas reduction goals’ and the risks and other factors discussed from time to  time in FirstEnergy Corp.’s SEC filings. Dividends declared from time to time on FirstEnergy Corp.’s common stock during any period may in the aggregate vary from prior periods due to circumstances  considered by the FirstEnergy Corp. Board at the time of the actual declarations. A security rating is not a"
"recommendation to buy or hold securities and is subject to  revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. These forward-looking statements  are also qualified by, and should be read together with, the risk factors included in FirstEnergy Corp.’s Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and in other filings with the SEC. The  foregoing review of factors also should not be construed as exhaustive. New factors emerge from time to"
"time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such  factors, nor assess the impact of any such factor on FirstEnergy Corp.’s business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause results to differ  materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. FirstEnergy Corp. expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise, except as required by law, any  forward-looking statements contained herein or in the information incorporated by"
"reference as a result of new information, future events or otherwise."
