"2024  Health for  Humanity  Report A Johnson & Johnson associate  works with a mini-bioreactor.  2 2024 Health for Humanity Report ﻿Contents AI  Artificial intelligence CHW     Community health worker ESG     Environmental, social and governance FDA       U.S. Food and Drug Administration GHG   Greenhouse gas or gases HCP     Healthcare professional LMICs   Low- and middle-income countries WHO    World Health Organization Please find below a glossary of key acronyms used throughout this Report:"
"Our approach 3 Message from our leaders 4 Year in brief 5 About Johnson & Johnson 7 ESG strategy 8 Innovation & advancing   health for all 9 Innovating in medicines 10 Innovating in MedTech 13 Technology innovation & AI 15 Supply chain innovation 16 Advancing health for all 17 Our employees 21 Employee attraction & development 22 Employee engagement & inclusion 24 Employee health, safety & well-being 27 Environmental health 28 Decarbonizing our operations & value chain  29"
"Sustainable products & solutions 32 Managing risk & compliance   34 Accountability & governance 35 Corporate governance 36 Ethics & compliance 38 Product quality & safety 40 Responsible supply base 42 Reporting hub 44 About this report 45 ESG performance data 46   Our  approach  4 2024 Health for Humanity Report Joaquin Duato  Chairman of the Board and  Chief Executive Officer Marillyn Hewson Lead Director  Message from our leaders To our global community, For nearly 140 years, Johnson"
"& Johnson has addressed the world’s  most pressing health challenges with groundbreaking solutions—and   the past year was no exception. Inspired by Our Credo, our more than 138,000 employees come  to work each day, driven to tackle the world’s toughest health  challenges. The well-being of patients and communities is our priority.  By embedding sustainable and responsible business practices into  the way we work, we create long-term value for patients, providers,  employees, communities and"
"investors alike. We are focused on the areas where we can make the greatest impact.  For instance, in 2024, we reached more than 1 million healthcare workers  worldwide, strengthening care where it’s needed most. Advancing global  health equity, empowering our workforce and protecting environmental  health are central to our purpose. And in everything that we do,  innovation and accountability are at the core. Caring for people also means caring for the planet. To build a healthier,  more"
"resilient world, we’re focused on four strategic environmental  priorities: decarbonizing our operations and value chain, improving the  environmental performance of our product portfolio, partnering   to advance sustainable healthcare and empowering our employees   to lead the way on sustainability. Our employees are the backbone of all these achievements.   That’s why we invest in their growth and well-being. On our second  Global Learning Day, our workforce took part in approximately   15,000"
"courses, and during our annual Global Activity Challenge,  34,000 employees around the world came together to promote   health and well-being through movement. This report celebrates our progress and underscores Johnson & Johnson’s  identity as a purpose-driven company. We know that to profoundly  impact health for humanity, we must deliver smart, personal solutions   for today and continue to work to unlock the cures of tomorrow. We remain inspired by and committed to this challenge, and we"
"look  forward to continuing this important work in the years ahead. Joaquin Duato, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Marillyn Hewson, Lead Director GRI 2-22 Innovation and advancing  health for all Our employees Environmental health Accountability & governance Reporting hub ESG strategy Year in brief Recognitions ESG ratings Our approach About Johnson & Johnson Contents Message from our leaders  5 2024 Health for Humanity Report  2024 year in brief 1  In 2024, we revised our"
"methodology for calculating cumulative data relating to healthcare workers reached to include both U.S.-based and global initiatives (475,800 and 540,500 healthcare workers respectively). The cumulative data reported in 2024  also reflects corrections to 2022 and 2023 totals. Data from J&J Impact Ventures is captured separately in this report and excluded from this total. > $17 billion  invested in research and development   to create life-enhancing innovations > 196 million  doses of VERMOX"
"Chewable (mebendazole)  donated, treating children and women of  reproductive age for intestinal worms  > 1 million  healthcare workers reached, bringing our  total to 3.7 million reached since 20211  Innovation & advancing health for all  94%  of employees responded to Our Credo Survey,  with 85% agreeing that J&J provides an  inclusive work environment where each  employee is considered an individual > 36,000  employees joined ~15,000 courses on  Global Learning Day 2024 in sessions   on the"
"day and through October and  November combined  ~34,000  employees came together across   74 countries for a Global Activity Challenge  Our employees  Environmental health  26%  reduction of our absolute Scope 1 & 2  greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions since 2021  88%  of J&J’s global electricity is sourced from  renewable sources  14   countries have hospitals with J&J’s  recycling program for single-use  medical devices Accountability & governance  $15 billion  in total tax contribution around the"
"world  97% of sales and marketing employees  completed Health Care Compliance training > 1,000   suppliers engaged to complete   EcoVadis assessments  Innovation and advancing  health for all Our employees Environmental health Accountability & governance Reporting hub ESG strategy Message from our leaders Recognitions ESG ratings Our approach About Johnson & Johnson Contents Year in brief  6 2024 Health for Humanity Report  ESG ratings Featured as a top 5 Access to Medicine Index performer   for"
"more than a decade. Maintained an A- CDP score recognizing our leadership in  environmental transparency and climate performance. Scored in the 95th percentile for the pharmaceutical manufacturing  sector for the EcoVadis sustainability assessment. Inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index Series for the 24th year,   scoring in the 98th percentile in our sector. Performed in the first decile among industry peers. Maintained an “A” rating. Reduced our ESG risk rating for the sixth consecutive year."
"Previous  score Current  score 4.03 3.43 Previous  score Current  score A- A- Previous  score Current  score 72 74 Previous  score Current  score A A Previous  score Current  score 4.6 4.7 Previous  score Current  score B B Previous  score Current  score 22.1 20.1  Recognitions Ranked #5 on the Gartner annual  ranking of Top 25 Company Supply  Chains for 2024  Ranked in the top 20 of Fortune’s  ranking of America’s Most Innovative  Companies   Ranked #6 on the Drucker Institute   Top 250 Best-"
"Managed Companies   of 2024  Listed on Fortune’s World’s Most  Admired Companies list for the   22nd year in a row ESG Rater Score Notes Innovation and advancing  health for all Our employees Environmental health Accountability & governance Reporting hub ESG strategy Message from our leaders Our approach About Johnson & Johnson Contents Year in brief Recognitions ESG ratings  7 2024 Health for Humanity Report  About Johnson & Johnson At Johnson & Johnson, we believe health is everything. Our"
"strength  in healthcare innovation empowers us to build a world where complex  diseases are prevented and cured, treatments are smarter and less  invasive and solutions are personal.   24,445 39,023 27,687 46,770 Employees  by region 2  Includes dividend increase in April 2025. We are driven by Our Credo, a set of values that, since  1943, has challenged and inspired us to put the needs  and well-being of the people we serve first. Through our  expertise in medicines and medical technologies,"
"we are  uniquely positioned to innovate across the full spectrum  of healthcare solutions today to deliver the breakthroughs  of tomorrow and profoundly impact health for humanity.  We take a focused approach to maximize our resources  in those areas where we can have the biggest impact. Headquartered in New Jersey, U.S., our operating  companies employ approximately 138,000 employees  spread around the world. Our employees engage in   the research and development, manufacture and sale   of a"
"broad range of healthcare products that save lives  and help change lives for the better every day.   We work with more than 29,000 suppliers and hundreds  of external manufacturers to support the development  and manufacturing of our products worldwide. $14,066 Net earnings (millions) 63 Number of consecutive years of dividend increases2 Asia Pacific Europe, Middle East & Africa Latin America North America Innovative Medicine •       Oncology   •    Immunology   •  Neuroscience  •"
"Cardiopulmonary •       Communicable  diseases MedTech   •      Cardiovascular •        Orthopaedics •  Surgery   •     Vision   Business segments GRI 2-1 Innovation and advancing  health for all Our employees Environmental health Accountability & governance Reporting hub ESG strategy Year in brief Message from our leaders Recognitions ESG ratings Our approach Contents About Johnson & Johnson  8 2024 Health for Humanity Report  ESG strategy J&J integrates ESG into our business strategies,"
"starting at the highest levels of  leadership, where the Board has overall accountability for ESG risk management  oversight. Our ESG strategy informs our approach to delivering positive impact  for our stakeholders while managing ESG-related risks and opportunities.  Our ESG strategy is grounded in Our Credo values, informed by both   our Company’s purpose to profoundly impact health for humanity  and the views of our external stakeholders. The strategy focuses  our efforts on the areas where"
"we are well positioned to achieve the  greatest impact: innovation and advancing health for all, empowering  our employees and advancing environmental health. Leading with  accountability is foundational to these efforts.   Our ESG approach is designed to effectively govern and manage risks,  including ESG risks, while enabling us to identify opportunities that  accurately reflect our business strategy.   The Enterprise Compliance & Risk Committee (ECRC), chaired by our  Chief Technical"
"Operations & Risk Officer with representatives from our  business segments and enterprise risk functions, provides governance  and oversight for the management of current and emerging risks and  facilitation of action planning across the Company, including ESG  related matters (see section: Corporate governance).   For more information on how we are managing ESG risks and  embedding sustainability into decision-making, please see our  Position on ESG Governance .  J&J interacts with numerous"
"stakeholders at the global, national and  local levels to understand their expectations of us and gain valuable  insight into what matters to them, so that we can better respond to  their needs. Our key stakeholders include:  •       Patients are at the center of all we do at J&J. We prioritize safety,  innovation and accessibility to deliver best-in-class solutions for  patients at every step of their health journey.   •         Healthcare providers—including physicians, nurses and a range  of"
"health workers—are critical to ensuring patients receive the  professional, timely and holistic care they need.   •   Our employees are critical to our continued success. We foster  a culture built on Our Credo values where merit is rewarded and  employees are encouraged to grow both professionally and personally.   •       Investors play a vital role in providing capital for J&J to grow  and deliver on our ambitious plans to address the world's toughest  healthcare challenges while delivering"
"value to shareholders.   Examples of how we engaged these, and other stakeholder groups,   in 2024 can be found throughout this Report. For a full list of  stakeholder groups, see our  Position on Stakeholder Engagement .   Stakeholder engagement GRI 2-13, 2-23, 2-24, 2-29, 3-1, 3-2 Innovation and advancing  health for all Our employees Environmental health Accountability & governance Reporting hub Year in brief Message from our leaders Recognitions ESG ratings Our approach About Johnson &"
"Johnson Contents ESG strategy   Innovation  & advancing  health for all With our Credo as the  compass, we are tackling  the world’s toughest  health challenges to  deliver transformational  healthcare innovation,  patient experience and  access to fulfill our mission  of profoundly improving  health for humanity.   >$17 billion   invested in research and development   to create life-enhancing innovations >196 million    doses of VERMOX Chewable (mebendazole)   donated, treating children and"
"women of  reproductive age for intestinal worms >1 million   healthcare workers reached, bringing our   total to 3.7 million reached since 20213  3  In 2024, we revised our methodology for calculating cumulative data relating to healthcare workers reached to include both U.S.-based  and global initiatives (475,800 and 540,500 healthcare workers respectively). The cumulative data reported in 2024 also reflects  corrections to 2022 and 2023 totals. Data from J&J Impact Ventures is captured"
"separately in this report and excluded from this total.  10 2024 Health for Humanity Report At Johnson & Johnson, we are leading where  medicine is going, with a relentless focus on  bringing transformational medical innovation  to patients who are waiting. Our team’s deep    expertise and global reach are helping us  reimagine how devastating diseases are  treated and cured, delivering hope and better care for millions   of patients and their families around the world. Jennifer Taubert,"
"Executive Vice President,   Worldwide Chairman, Innovative Medicine, Johnson & Johnson Inspired by patients, we apply rigorous science to address the serious health  problems of today and develop the medicines of tomorrow. We work to develop  treatments and aspire to find cures, championing patients every step of the way.   Innovating in medicines non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and less than 20% of patients with  NSCLC surviving past five years.4 We delivered the first chemotherapy-free"
"combination therapy showing  both superior progression-free survival and, more recently, significant  improvement in overall survival versus the current standard of care with  the median overall survival improvement projected to exceed one year. In 2024, our therapy, RYBREVANT (amivantamab-vmjw) in combination  with LAZCLUZE (lazertinib), was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug  Administration (FDA) as a first-line treatment for patients with locally  advanced or metastatic NSCLC.5 By addressing"
"specific genetic drivers  of this cancer, our novel therapy is shifting how patients with NSCLC are  treated in the frontline setting. RYBREVANT is the world’s first bi-specific  antibody approved for a solid tumor indication; it targets two growth  factor receptors (EGFR and C-MET) that drive cancer cell growth.  Extended survival for patients with   multiple myeloma   Managing multiple myeloma remains challenging. While no cure is yet  available, patients are living longer thanks to advances"
"delivered by  J&J.6 Among our products is CARVYTKI, which uses Chimeric Antigen  Receptor (CAR) T-cells to genetically engineer patients’ immune cells  to attack myeloma cells. In 2024, the FDA approved J&J’s CARVYKTI  (ciltacabtagene autoleucel; cilta-cel), and the European Medicines  Our mission is to redefine cancer care by delivering innovative therapies  that address critical unmet needs. Our progress includes advancing  treatment for patients with multiple myeloma and lung, prostate and"
"bladder cancers. Lung cancer breakthrough therapy   Lung cancer remains a leading cause of cancer related deaths worldwide,  with approximately 80% to 85% of lung cancers characterized as    Oncology “ Agency (EMA) expanded the label to include patients with relapsed  or refractory multiple myeloma who received at least one prior line of  therapy. CARVYKTI is the first cell therapy to significantly extend overall  survival versus standard therapies for patients as early as the second  line of"
"therapy, with a 45% reduction in risk of death after a three-year  follow-up. This marks a significant shift in the treatment landscape,  offering this therapy to a broader patient population. Treating adults with newly diagnosed   multiple myeloma   J&J submitted a supplemental Biologics License Application to the FDA  and the EMA for a new indication of DARZALEX FASPRO (daratumumab  and hyaluronidase-fihj) in combination with bortezomib, lenalidomide  and dexamethasone for the treatment of"
"adult patients with newly  diagnosed multiple myeloma (NDMM). This regimen represents a potential  new standard of care in newly diagnosed patients enabling care for  the approximately 50% of patients with NDMM who are ineligible for a  stem cell transplant. DARZALEX is a monoclonal antibody medicine that  binds to the CD38 molecule on myeloma cells.  It was the first biologic  medicine ever approved for multiple myeloma.  Paving the way for a new era in bladder   cancer treatment   Bladder"
"cancer is among the top ten most common cancers worldwide,  affecting more than a million people each year.7 TAR-200 represents  a new approach to treatment. It’s an innovative intravesical drug  releasing system designed to provide sustained, local delivery of  gemcitabine directly into the bladder. In 2024, J&J advanced TAR-200  monotherapy,8 with results from our SunRISe-1 Phase 2b study showing  a nearly 84% complete response rate in patients with high-risk   non-muscle-invasive bladder"
"cancer. TAR-200 has been awarded  Breakthrough Designation by the FDA.   4  WHO, “Cancer,” www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/cancer, accessed February 2025, and the American Cancer Society.   “What is Lung Cancer?” www.cancer.org/content/cancer/en/cancer/lung-cancer/about/what-is.html, accessed February 2025. 5  This refers to locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with epidermal growth factor receptor mutations. 6  San-Miguel J, et al. “Cilta-cel or Standard Care in Lenalidomide-"
"Refractory Multiple Myeloma”. N Engl J Med. 2023 Jul 27;389(4):335-347. 7  WHO. “Bladder Cancer.” www.iarc.who.int/cancer-type/bladder-cancer/, accessed March 2025, and internal J&J calculation. 8  This therapy was provided for patients with BCG-unresponsive high-risk non–muscle-invasive bladder cancer (HR-NMIBC) with carcinoma in  situ, who are ineligible for, or decline, radical cystectomy. Positive results were demonstrated in Cohort 2 of the Phase 2b SunRISe-1 study  evaluating the"
"efficacy and safety of the therapy. GRI 203-2, J&J24-9 Our approach Innovation & advancing  health for all Our employees Environmental health Accountability & governance Reporting hub Innovating in MedTech Technology innovation & AI Immunology Neuroscience Communicable diseases Cardiovascular Orthopaedics Surgery Vision Supply chain innovation Transforming the supply chain   with digital Advancing health for all Expanding access to medicines  and technologies Our J&J CareCommunity Contents"
"Innovating in medicines Oncology  11 2024 Health for Humanity Report J&J has been committed to addressing immunology for decades and  has experience innovating for a wide range of conditions, with a vision  to restore health for all people living with immune diseases. Our immune  pathway strategy aims to deliver transformational and accessible  therapies for patients, redefining the standard of care with durable,  symptom-free remission.     Transforming treatments for   autoantibody-driven"
"diseases   Nipocalimab is an investigational monoclonal antibody, specially  designed to attach to and block the FcRn protein in the body, lowering  the levels of harmful immunoglobulin G antibodies in the blood that  cause autoimmune diseases. Nearly 100 diseases are believed to be  attributable or contributed to by autoantibodies, where the immune  system mistakenly makes antibodies that bind to host tissues. We have  been investigating the benefits of nipocalimab for several years, and in"
"2024, we achieved three FDA milestones: •       Sjögren’s disease: Nipocalimab was granted Breakthrough  Designation for the treatment of adults living with moderate-to-severe  Sjögren’s disease, a chronic autoimmune disease that causes dryness  of the mucosal membranes and inflammation that may cause impaired  functional capacity and even death. This disease is estimated to  impact four million people in the U.S. alone, of whom ~90% are women.9  Our Phase 2 study demonstrated the first-ever"
"positive results of an  investigational FcRn blocker as a potential targeted therapy to treat  Sjögren’s disease. •    Hemolytic disease of the fetus and newborn (HDFN):   Nipocalimab was granted Breakthrough Designation for the treatment  of pregnant individuals at risk of severe HDFN, a rare disease that can  be life-threatening for the fetus or newborn. In HDFN, the immune  system of a pregnant individual makes antibodies that attack the red  blood cells of the fetus, causing anemia. It is"
"estimated that up to   80 of every 100,000 pregnancies are affected by HDFN each year.10   Our Phase 3 trial is ongoing and represents hope for thousands   of women and newborns.  •        Fetal neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia (FNAIT):   Nipocalimab was granted Fast Track Designation for the treatment  of FNAIT, a rare disease with an estimated incidence of one in  1,000 pregnancies that occurs when the immune system attacks  fetal platelets, resulting in the risk of internal bleeding,"
"potentially  threatening the life of the fetus or newborn. Nipocalimab is the  only investigational therapy currently reported to be in clinical  development for FNAIT for which there is no approved treatment.  Overcoming inflammatory diseases   The prevalence of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) in the U.S. is  estimated between 2.4 and 3.1 million people, with differing burden  across groups. This disease is on the increase, as are IBD-related  healthcare costs.11 Building on J&J’s 30-year"
"legacy of immunology  innovation, new global regulatory applications and approvals for  TREMFYA (guselkumab) in Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis are a  significant step toward addressing unmet patient need. Our TREMFYA  clinical program has shown the potential to offer patients lasting  remission in IBD, offering patients measurable relief and improved  quality of life.    Plaque psoriasis affects an estimated eight million Americans and  more than 125 million people worldwide.12 Many"
"people with psoriasis  experience chronic itching, burning and discomfort—challenges that  extend to emotional well-being. Icotrokinra, our investigational targeted  oral peptide that selectively blocks the IL-23 receptor, demonstrates  the potential to address the unmet needs and preferences of patients— shifting the treatment paradigm in plaque psoriasis with a unique  combination of clear skin, favorable safety and the simplicity of a   once-daily pill.  Immunology 9    Sjögren’s Foundation,"
"Fact Sheet, sjogrens.org/sites/default/files/inline-files/World Sjogrens Fact Sheet 2024.pdf, accessed February 2025. 10  Delaney M, Matthews DC. Hemolytic disease of the fetus and newborn: managing the mother, fetus and newborn. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program. (2015)  2015(1):146-151. doi: doi.org/10.1182/asheducation-2015.1.146. Accessed June 2023. 11    CDC, IBD Facts and Stats, www.cdc.gov/inflammatory-bowel-disease/php/facts-stats/index.html. Accessed February 2025. 12 "
"Psoriasis.org. www.psoriasis.org/psoriasis-statistics. Accessed April 2025. Our approach Innovation & advancing  health for all Our employees Environmental health Accountability & governance Reporting hub Innovating in medicines Innovating in MedTech Technology innovation & AI Oncology Neuroscience Communicable diseases Cardiovascular Orthopaedics Surgery Vision Supply chain innovation Transforming the supply chain   with digital Advancing health for all Expanding access to medicines  and"
"technologies Our J&J CareCommunity Contents Immunology  12 2024 Health for Humanity Report Our pipeline not only showcases our  commitment to innovation across multiple  therapeutic areas and disease states but  also differentiates us in the market by  enabling us to meet diverse patient needs  with comprehensive solutions.  John C. Reed, M.D., Ph.D., Executive Vice President,   Innovative Medicine, R&D, Johnson & Johnson We are creating a healthier future for the billions of people worldwide"
"living with nervous system disorders; we seek to redefine what’s  possible in neuropsychiatric, neurodegenerative, ophthalmic and  neurological autoantibody disorders. New paths to relief from depressive disorders    In 2024, J&J continued to progress innovation for major depressive  disorder (MDD), which impacts an estimated 280 million people  worldwide.13 We are committed to transforming care for patients by  providing more effective options to treat depression. In 2024, we  reported positive"
"results from two clinical studies: •   MDD with insomnia symptoms: Seltorexant, developed by J&J, is  believed to work by selectively blocking the orexin-2 brain receptor,  which may help improve mood and insomnia symptoms associated  with MDD. In our Phase 3 clinical trial, patients who took seltorexant  with an oral antidepressant saw a reduction in depressive symptoms  and improvement in sleep disturbances. •        Treatment-resistant depression (TRD): Our positive Phase 4 study  of SPRAVATO"
"(esketamine CIII nasal spray) as a monotherapy builds  on more than 10 years of research  and reinforces its safety and  efficacy in adults living with TRD. The medicine was recently approved  in the U.S. as a standalone treatment for adults with TRD. SPRAVATO  was made possible by combining a device with the drug, enabling   a novel nasal route of delivery that overcomes challenges with   systemic administration.   Early treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD)   Building on our longstanding"
"commitment to precision neuroscience,  we reached key milestones in 2024 that represent important steps  forward in the pursuit of early, targeted approaches to AD. Our two  investigational therapies—monoclonal antibody posdinemab and   anti-tau active immunotherapy JNJ-2056—received FDA Fast Track  Designation, underscoring their potential to slow disease progression   by targeting tau, a leading target in AD. These advances reflect  our continued progress toward a future where Alzheimer’s can"
"be  detected earlier and potentially treated with greater precision.  Neuroscience  Communicable diseases   Communicable diseases represent some of the most entrenched health  challenges, affecting millions of people around the world each year.  To combat these diseases, we focus on programs and partnerships  that build on our decades of work in communicable diseases and have  potential to save and improve lives.   Advanced new treatment options for leprosy   Shorter and simpler treatment"
"options for leprosy are urgently   needed to help accelerate efforts toward leprosy control. Our Phase  2 study showed that J&J’s bedaquiline provides effective treatment  against multibacillary leprosy, clearing bacterial growth and improving  symptoms. These findings supported the launch of a Phase 3 trial, which  commenced in December 2024, enrolling the first patient in Brazil.   This trial is further investigating the efficacy and safety of bedaquiline  as part of a six-month combination"
"therapy for the treatment of  multibacillary leprosy.  J&J introduced bedaquiline in 2012 as a novel mechanism of action in  more than 40 years as a new targeted medicine for tuberculosis (TB).  Today, bedaquiline is a core component of WHO-recommended  treatment guidelines for drug-resistant TB. Leprosy is caused by  bacteria from the same family as TB. If proven effective against leprosy,  bedaquiline could again transform the treatment landscape for another  pressing health challenge that"
"disproportionately affects people in  LMICs (see section: Advancing health for all).  “ 13  WHO. “Depressive disorder.” www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/depression.   Accessed February 2025.   Advancing neurodegenerative  disease research  In 2024, the Global Neurodegeneration Proteomics  Consortium (GNPC)—a J&J co-led initiative— reached a major milestone in their joint effort to  better understand neurodegenerative diseases  by releasing the first version of a groundbreaking  protein"
"dataset.  Created through the GNPC, this dataset includes  nearly 300 million protein measurements from over  40,000 patient samples across conditions like  Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s.  It’s the largest collection of its kind, designed to help  researchers uncover new clues about how these  diseases develop and progress. Individuals depicted are models, for illustrative purposes only. Our approach Innovation & advancing  health for all Our employees Environmental health Accountability &"
"governance Reporting hub Innovating in medicines Innovating in MedTech Technology innovation & AI Oncology Immunology Cardiovascular Orthopaedics Surgery Vision Supply chain innovation Transforming the supply chain   with digital Advancing health for all Expanding access to medicines  and technologies Our J&J CareCommunity Contents Neuroscience Communicable diseases  13 2024 Health for Humanity Report With a global scale and deep expertise in cardiovascular, orthopedics, surgery  and vision"
"solutions, J&J tackles the world’s most pressing healthcare challenges.  We innovate to develop smarter, less invasive and more personalized solutions to  tackle the leading causes of mortality around the world.   Innovating in MedTech Heart disease is a leading cause of death, and through a cardiovascular  portfolio that provides advanced mapping and navigation, and precise  ablation, we are addressing conditions such as heart failure, coronary  artery disease, stroke and atrial fibrillation"
"(AFib). AFib is the most common  type of cardiac arrhythmia and its prevalence is on the rise globally,  having doubled from 28 million in 1990 to 57 million people in 2019.14 Enhancing cardiac ablation tools   In 2024, we launched the CARTO 3 System Version 8, the latest version  of J&J’s three-dimensional mapping system that uses electromagnetic  technology to generate real-time maps of a patient’s cardiac structures.  Version 8 enhances the mapping and ablation experience through  improved"
"mapping tools and utilization of ultrasound technology, and it  adds new modules, designed for efficiency, reproducibility and accuracy  for electrophysiologists performing catheter ablation procedures to  treat patients with AFib and other arrhythmias.   Extending accessibility of ablation technology   Given the increasing prevalence of AFib around the world, physicians are  looking for innovative ways to improve the efficiency of procedures and  deliver better treatment outcomes. In 2024, our"
"VARIPULSE Platform  for the treatment of AFib received regulatory approvals in Europe, the  U.S. and Canada, adding to prior approvals in Japan.  The VARIPULSE Platform uses pulsed field ablation (PFA), which is a  new approach to treating AFib, utilizing a controlled electric field to  selectively ablate cardiac tissue that causes the irregular heartbeat.  PFA can reduce the potential risk of damage to surrounding tissues,  veins and nerves. Integration with our CARTO 3 System enables   real-"
"time catheter visualization for safe, effective and efficient   catheter ablation procedures.  Enabling heart recovery  IMPELLA is our percutaneous catheter-based technology platform that  provides hemodynamic support for the heart. By temporarily assisting  the heart’s pumping function, IMPELLA allows the heart to rest and  recover while maintaining coronary perfusion. In 2024, the results of  the first pivotal trial on patients supported with IMPELLA ECP, a novel  transvalvular axial flow"
"pump, demonstrated IMPELLA ECP’s safety and  efficacy for use in high-risk percutaneous coronary interventions. Also in  2024, the FDA expanded the indications for two IMPELLA pumps,  granting premarket approval15 for use in specific pediatric patients.   Further, in 2024, we completed our acquisition of Shockwave Medical,  which offers the first commercially available intravascular lithotripsy  (IVL) platform worldwide designed to treat severely calcified coronary  and peripheral artery lesions"
"using sonic pressure waves.  Cardiovascular  Orthopaedics 14  American Journal of Medical Care (AJMC), “Global Burden of Atrial Fibrillation Rises Sharply Over 30 Years, Study Finds,”   www.ajmc.com/view/global-burden-of-atrial-fibrillation-rises-sharply-over-30-years-study-finds, accessed February 2025. 15  Premarket approval is the highest level of approval granted by the FDA for the safety and efficacy of medical devices. Building on our proud product innovation and legacy of industry"
"firsts,  we are reimagining the orthopaedic landscape with new advancements  in medical technologies and digital surgery across the entire continuum  of care.  Leveraging AI to improve orthopaedic surgery  To reduce cycle times for key surgical components and increase  availability, we have developed an Artificial Intelligence Smart Inspection  (AISI) program. AISI optimizes the historically manual process of  orthopaedic surgical kit inspections to serve hospitals and patients  more quickly and"
"efficiently. Surgical kits are prepared for orthopedic  joint reconstruction, with each type consisting of several unique  components in a designated slot. Using AISI, which can detect  thousands of unique components, these kits can be processed rapidly   and accurately. We tested AISI in a pilot program in Canada and  experience a 40% reduction in inspection time.    Transforming knee replacement procedures   with robotics  Our VELYS Robotic-Assisted Solution (VELYS) is transforming total knee"
"replacement procedures globally. With more than 100,000 surgeries  performed across 31 markets, VELYS enhances precision, streamlines  GRI  203-2, J&J24-9 Our approach Innovation & advancing  health for all Our employees Environmental health Accountability & governance Reporting hub Innovating in medicines Technology innovation & AI Oncology Immunology Neuroscience Communicable diseases Surgery Vision Supply chain innovation Transforming the supply chain   with digital Advancing health for all"
"Expanding access to medicines  and technologies Our J&J CareCommunity Contents Innovating in MedTech Cardiovascular Orthopaedics  14 2024 Health for Humanity Report Our purpose at J&J MedTech is clear:  developing next-generation innovations that  revolutionize care and improve lives. Medical  technology can truly transform healthcare  through the creation of personalized treat­ ments, improving disease detection and  delivering more efficient care.”  Tim Schmid, Executive Vice President,"
"Worldwide Chairman, MedTech, Johnson & Johnson workflows and personalizes care, integrating seamlessly with our  ATTUNE Knee System to reduce the risk of revision compared to similar  procedures. In 2024, the FDA cleared VELYS for unicompartmental knee  arthroplasty (UKA), enabling surgeons to address alignment and precision  challenges in partial knee replacements without requiring CT imaging,  further expanding the number of patients that can benefit from VELYS.  Also in 2024, we announced FDA"
"clearance of our VELYS Active  Robotic-Assistance Platform (VELYS Spine) to address the complexities  of spinal surgeries—a field where more than 4.83 million procedures are  performed globally each year.16 VELYS Spine has a broad indication for  spinal surgeries, inclusive of the most complex pathologies, and the  capabilities of our unique arm enables surgeons control and flexibility in  their approach and plans. This groundbreaking platform helps empower  surgeons, improve surgical"
"experiences and enhance patient outcomes.   Together, with clinicians and healthcare experts around the world, we are  progressing what’s next in surgery to address patient needs. Technology  plays a critical role in how we support healthcare professionals (HCPs)  and their patients, and we leverage state-of-the-art techniques to deliver  innovative solutions.    Advancing robotic surgery   We are developing our robotic surgical platform that is designed to set  a new standard for the modern"
"Operating Room (OR) and transform  the surgical experience. In 2024, we received FDA approval to begin  clinical trials with the OTTAVA Robotic System,17 our general surgery  soft tissue robotic system. Our OTTAVA Robotic System’s unique unified  architecture, surgical instrumentation powered by J&J’s expertise and  digital ecosystem are intended to provide versatility to meet the needs  of each patient’s care and each surgeon’s clinical approach.     Surgery Delivering new surgical tools   J&J"
"develops surgical technologies and solutions to help address major  health challenges such as metabolic disease, cardiovascular disease  and cancer. In 2024, we introduced the ECHELON LINEAR Cutter,  a surgical stapler that delivers 47% fewer leaks at the staple line,  primarily for use in colorectal surgery. This is the first linear cutter that  combines innovative and proprietary 3D-stapling and gripping surface  technologies, which can help surgeons reduce risks and deliver positive  patient"
"outcomes.    Powering the surgery ecosystem with AI    Across J&J’s organization, teams of technologists and engineers   are working to deliver a digital surgery ecosystem that promises to  create a more connected surgical experience and unlock the power   of surgical data.  We are working with NVIDIA to scale AI-based innovation before, during  and after surgery, supporting increased access to real-time analysis  and global availability of AI algorithms for surgical decision-making,  education"
"and collaboration across the connected OR. J&J also launched the beta version of POLYPHONIC Surgery, part of  an open and secure digital ecosystem for a more connected surgical  experience. The ecosystem features software applications that are  agnostic to data sources and focus on delivering critical insights  through, for example, surgical video, telepresence and integrated  healthcare-defined collaboration tools.  Vision Understanding that eye health needs change over a lifetime—from"
"contacts to cataracts—we have built a unified, global organization that  collaborates, innovates and works together to provide care for patients  at every stage in their eye health journey. Our legacy of innovation  continued in 2024 as we delivered advanced eye care solutions in  new markets. These included advanced contact lenses, a refractive  correction laser system and the launch and expansion of cutting-edge  Presbyopia Correcting Intra Ocular Lenses (PCIOLs) as part of our  TECNIS"
"Platform portfolio. •       TECNIS Odyssey, approved in the U.S. and EU,18 is designed to provide  full visual range,19 so patients can see clearly from far to near and in  between, minimizing the need for glasses.20 •  TECNIS PureSee, currently launched in the EU and pending in the U.S.,  is a purely refractive PCIOL that delivers uninterrupted, high-quality  vision,21 with high-image contrast and low-light performance.22 Our long-lasting collaborations with organizations have also benefited"
"millions of people through comprehensive eye screenings, high-quality  cataract surgeries and educational initiatives for the next generation of  cataract surgery healthcare workers in communities around the world  (see section: Advancing health for all). 16   D’Souza M, et al. “Robotic-assisted spine surgery: history, efficacy, cost, and future trends.” Robot Surg. 2019;6:9-23 17    The OTTAVA Robotic System is under development and is not authorized to be marketed or sold in any market. 18  "
"TECNIS Odyssey IOL will be available for select surgeons in countries across Japan, Korea, Canada, Singapore, Australia,   New Zealand, Europe and Middle East & Africa through the LMR period, with expanded roll out expected in 2025 and beyond. 19    According to ISO 1979-7:2024, based on the clinical study of the parent IOL and preclinical bench testing of TECNIS Odyssey  (Data on File. 2024DOF4002). 20  TECNIS Odyssey IOL with TECNIS Simplicity Delivery System Directions For Use 21   "
"DOF2023CT4016 – Simulated VA of the TECNIS PureSee IOL compared to TECNIS Eyhance and TECNIS 1-Piece IOLs. 29 March 2023;   Bala C, et al. “Superior intermediate and uncompromised distance quality of vision with a purely refractive extended depth of focus  IOL.” Abstract ESCRS Vienna 2023. REF2023CT4128 22  DOF2023CT4014 – MTF of the TECNIS PureSee IOL; DOF2023CT4025 – MTF of the TECNIS PureSee IOL and other lens models   in low-light conditions. “ Our approach Innovation & advancing  health"
"for all Our employees Environmental health Accountability & governance Reporting hub Innovating in medicines Innovating in MedTech Technology innovation & AI Oncology Immunology Neuroscience Communicable diseases Cardiovascular Orthopaedics Supply chain innovation Transforming the supply chain   with digital Advancing health for all Expanding access to medicines  and technologies Our J&J CareCommunity Contents Surgery Vision  15 2024 Health for Humanity Report As we embed AI across our business,"
"we’re actively exploring the next areas of   disruption to advance healthcare for all.  Supporting these efforts, we continue to  focus on our data foundation, such as data  quality and governance, so that we are best  positioned to leverage AI effectively.”  Jim Swanson, Executive Vice President,   Chief Information Officer, Johnson & Johnson We are leveraging cutting-edge technologies to set new standards for  efficiency, effectiveness and enhanced customer and employee experiences."
"Technology innovation & AI In 2024, we continued to improve our network, cloud services and data  environment as we drive operational efficiency across the organization.  Through these innovations, J&J is redefining ways of working to deliver  better outcomes for our patients and our Company. Better data for better outcomes We drive innovative data management practices to underpin making  informed decisions and delivering effective healthcare. In 2024, we  implemented our Master Data Management"
"operating model, which  includes several process improvements and automations that enhance  operational efficiency and help our products reach patients faster.  Supported by the J&J Data Management Council our data management  processes help achieve high-quality data, streamlined operations and AI  readiness to support value creation for our business and those we serve. Integrating AI We continued to successfully integrate AI into J&J’s global operations,  moving from pilot programs into full"
"deployments during 2024. As part  of this initiative, we further refined our governance framework, which  includes guidelines to support responsible use and compliance. By the  end of 2024, more than 33,000 employees undertook Generative AI  (GenAI) training to enhance their digital skills and foster an innovative  culture. GenAI is delivering a number of benefits, including enhanced  productivity and skills through intuitive AI tools; training programs;   and optimized research, development and"
"operational processes, and  driving financial and operational value. We have also taken the first steps toward building a GenAI-powered tool  that will allow J&J to optimize inventories quickly and effectively, enhancing  the robustness of our supply chain. Early trials have shown the potential  for GenAI to streamline inventory management, predict demand more  accurately and optimize stock levels. These improvements are expected  to reduce waste and ensure we meet customer demands promptly. In"
"2024, we also launched CoCreate.AI, a GenAI-powered medical  writing product, as the next generation of safety reporting by combining  automated workflows and GenAI accelerators to streamline complex  medical writing tasks. Using CoCreate.AI, we have streamlined the  production of hundreds of annual aggregate safety reports, assuring  high-quality regulatory compliance while significantly reducing the  manual effort required to deliver these regulatory reports, enabling  faster drug development"
"timelines. Progressing our cloud strategy J&J’s cloud strategy is critical for driving innovation and supporting  emerging technologies such as GenAI so that J&J can remain at the  forefront of healthcare advancements. Over the last five years, we  have achieved a fourfold increase in cloud adoption, with most of our  workloads now running in the cloud. From the outset of our cloud  strategy, we established a multi-vendor strategy of major cloud providers,  enabling us to select the right cloud"
"environment for each workload,  diversify the technologies that power our business, ensure robust  security measures and balance innovation objectives with sustainability.  To read more on Technology innovation & AI, see sections  Innovating in medicines and Innovating in MedTech. “    Embracing collaboration for  breakthrough innovation  J&J’s external innovation group comprises scientific and  business experts specialized in accelerating cutting-edge  science and technology into potential"
"healthcare  solutions with the aim to improve lives around the world. Located in innovation hubs around the world in   Shanghai, San Francisco, Boston and London, partnering  teams across J&J Innovation Centers work hand in  hand with innovators to help accelerate their ideas  with industry-leading incubation, investment support,  strategic partnerships and deep scientific and  commercial expertise from J&J.  J&J’s global incubator network, JLABS, offers a global  network of open innovation"
"ecosystems that empowers  emerging companies with knowledge, experience,  strategic partnerships and venture connections across   a broad healthcare spectrum.  J&J’s corporate venture capital organization, JJDC,  supports a portfolio of more than 100 companies,  having invested more than $3.4 billion in capital since  2014. JJDC maintains a proactive approach to driving  innovation, investing in biotech and medical technology  companies of all stages. GRI J&J24-6  Our approach Innovation &"
"advancing  health for all Our employees Environmental health Accountability & governance Reporting hub Innovating in medicines Innovating in MedTech Oncology Immunology Neuroscience Communicable diseases Cardiovascular Orthopaedics Surgery Vision Supply chain innovation Transforming the supply chain   with digital Advancing health for all Expanding access to medicines  and technologies Our J&J CareCommunity Contents Technology innovation & AI  16 2024 Health for Humanity Report In Costa Rica, we"
"continued to develop our flagship J&J campus to be  our most advanced medical technology manufacturing site at launch and  to support multiple MedTech business units to meet growing customer  and patient demand. The multi-business operating model reduces  complexity, accelerates decision-making and offers significant flexibility  to adapt to fast-changing business environments. We remain unwavering in our commitment  to innovation across our global supply chain  to ensure reliable and efficient"
"supply of  transformational medicines to patients around  the world. The shift to Digital Value Chain  has vastly improved our ability to proactively  configure optimal supply chains, driving efficiencies and cost  savings while building a more resilient and adaptable network.”  Dapo Ajayi, Vice President, Innovative Medicine Supply Chain, Johnson & Johnson Our extended supply chains support our healthcare innovation through manufacturing  and delivering our medicines and devices to the patients"
"who need them.  Supply chain innovation J&J’s Digital Value Chain is a proprietary digital tool that enables  proactive, informed decisions that support the optimization of our  global supply chains now and for the future. The Digital Value Chain  includes our interactive Supply Chain Maps, which provide teams with  oversight of all the movements within each product supply chain and  how they change over time. Through Options Modeling, our teams can  predict supply chain performance for a range"
"of different scenarios,  which leads to better supply chain decisions. This enables optimization  of the design of our supply chain processes from the outset at product  launch and guides us in driving continuous improvement over the  product lifecycle. Ensuring supply chain continuity J&J’s Global Transportation Control Tower is a centralized digital  platform that deploys advanced analytics to revolutionize end-to-end  shipment tracking and management. Seamlessly facilitating real-time"
"collaboration across an expansive network of supply chain partners,  it allows J&J to navigate unforeseen disruptions such as geopolitical  crises and logistical obstacles. Launched in 2022, the Global  Transportation Control Tower has proven its impact in enhancing  operational efficiency and responsiveness, dramatically enhancing our  organization's ability to deliver critical healthcare solutions on time  and in full, even in times of crisis. In 2024, the platform supported the  TREMFYA"
"launch in the U.S. in a synchronized operation using Global  Transportation Control Tower’s multiple daily updates to deliver the  product for our patients just four days after FDA Approval. Investing in supply chain infrastructure Across our global supply landscape, we continue to invest to enhance  and expand our capabilities to supply solutions for our patients globally. In 2024, for example, we announced an investment of $2 billion to  build a state-of-the-art biologics manufacturing"
"facility in Wilson,  North Carolina. The new facility will support plans to advance J&J’s  pipeline of transformational medicines in oncology, immunology and  neuroscience. The site is designed to be fully digital, using AI and other  tools to enable continuous improvement; achieve high levels of quality,  safety and compliance; and integrate sustainable technologies.  Transforming the supply  chain with digital “ Our state-of-the art MedTech Costa Rica  campus offers capability acceleration"
"and efficiency with the ability to scale for  business growth that will redefine the way we  serve patients and healthcare professionals.”  Luis Roman, Vice President, MedTech Supply Chain, Johnson & Johnson “ J&J’s Digital Value Chain program was  shortlisted for the Gartner Power of the  Profession Supply Chain Awards 2025   in the category of Best Technology and   Process Innovation of the Year. Our approach Innovation & advancing  health for all Our employees Environmental health"
"Accountability & governance Reporting hub Innovating in medicines Innovating in MedTech Technology innovation & AI Oncology Immunology Neuroscience Communicable diseases Cardiovascular Orthopaedics Surgery Vision Advancing health for all Expanding access to medicines  and technologies Our J&J CareCommunity Contents Supply chain innovation Transforming the supply chain   with digital  17 2024 Health for Humanity Report Everything we do is rooted in our steadfast  commitment to building a world"
"where  patients have access to quality healthcare  and health workers have the support they need  to thrive. Guided by Our Credo, we work with  like-minded partners on innovative ways to close  the gaps between communities and care.”  Vanessa Broadhurst, Executive Vice President,   Global Corporate Affairs, Johnson & Johnson Gaps remain in access to quality healthcare in many communities around  the world, despite advancements in healthcare. WHO estimates that more  than half the world’s"
"population—4.5 billion people—do not have access to  essential health services.23  Advancing health for all “ 23  WHO, “Universal Health Coverage Fact Sheet”, www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/ detail/universal-health-coverage-(uhc), accessed February 2025. As a leader in healthcare, our approach to addressing the gaps in  healthcare access is rooted in Our Credo and prioritizes the needs   of patients and the health workers who deliver care. We have a longstanding commitment to ensuring that"
"our medicines and  medical technologies can reach the communities that need them most.  In 2024, for the seventh consecutive time, J&J was ranked among the  top five companies in the 2024 Access to Medicine Index, for efforts  to close the gap between communities and care. This marks more than  a decade that J&J has maintained this stature among pharmaceutical  companies due to our efforts to expand access to medicines and health  technologies in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). Our"
"125+ years of support for health workers is built on the core   belief that when health workers thrive, care improves for everyone.  Our initiative, J&J CareCommunity, unites efforts across the Company  under one global social impact platform, bringing together resources  to support a thriving global health workforce and connect communities   to the care they need.  Expanding access  to medicines and  technologies Developing lifesaving treatments and preventive therapeutics is at  the heart of"
"our mission to support improved health outcomes across  all communities globally. We know that innovations in medicines and  technologies are impactful only when they reach people in need.   We help navigate increasingly complex healthcare systems and continue  to work to enable local patient access to transformational medical  innovation now and in the future. We systematically plan for access at the early stages of development,  aiming to ensure that our medicines reach the people who need"
"them  most. We embed strategies to improve patient access to healthcare  systems by applying our Innovative Medicine Access and Pricing  Principles across our entire pharmaceutical portfolio. Three guiding  principles drive our decisions: •     We work closely with payers such as governments, insurers and other  local stakeholders to negotiate the price of our medicines based on  their local value—prioritizing health outcomes and the impact our  medicines have on a specific society and economy."
"•        We make our medicines readily accessible and affordable for patients  and health systems, working with governments and payers—as early  as the law allows—to discuss coverage, accelerate availability and  provide the best possible access to our medicines. •        We fuel sustainable innovation through fair pricing for valuable  therapies that enable the discovery, development and delivery for   the next breakthroughs and cures for current and future patients. J&J believes that"
"affordability challenges should not stand in the way  of access to medicines. In 2024, J&J provided more than $4.5 billion  in products through different mechanisms; this sum included the value  of free products provided directly to patients through the J&J Patient  Assistance Program. GRI 203-1, J&J24-1, J&J24-2; SASB HC-BP-240a.1 Our approach Innovation & advancing  health for all Our employees Environmental health Accountability & governance Reporting hub Innovating in medicines Innovating in"
"MedTech Technology innovation & AI Oncology Immunology Neuroscience Communicable diseases Cardiovascular Orthopaedics Surgery Vision Supply chain innovation Transforming the supply chain   with digital Our J&J CareCommunity Contents Advancing health for all Expanding access to medicines  and technologies  18 2024 Health for Humanity Report Eliminating intestinal worms Soil-transmitted helminth (STH) infections represent one of the   high-prevalence neglected tropical diseases prioritized in the"
"WHO  roadmap 2021 – 2030.24 STH—or intestinal worm infections—are among  the most common infections worldwide with an estimated 1.5 billion  infected people or 24% of the world’s population,25 threatening the  health, education and futures of 900 million children worldwide. In 2024, we expanded our commitment to donate up to 1 billion doses of  VERMOX Chewable (mebendazole) through 2030,26 —up to 200 million  doses per year—in STH endemic countries.  Since 2006, J&J has donated 2.6 billion doses"
"of VERMOX, our medicine  to treat intestinal worms, in more than 60 countries. Today, our program  reaches up to 100 million children and women of reproductive age  annually, helping millions of children to learn, grow and thrive. Ending tuberculosis (TB) In 2012, after years of focused investment in R&D, we introduced  SIRTURO (bedaquiline), the first targeted TB medicine with a novel  mechanism of action. In 2024, 132,000 patients received access to SIRTURO (bedaquiline),  potentially averting"
"1.2 million new multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB)   infections.27 Since approval, nearly 930,000 courses of SIRTURO  (bedaquiline) have been delivered to patients in 163 countries, including  all 30 high-burden TB countries, potentially averting 8.2 million new  MDR-TB infections.27   We acted to support all eligible countries to procure bedaquiline  through the Stop TB Partnership’s Global Drug Facility, an organization  that provides access to quality TB medicines and supports their  appropriate"
"use to help ensure they remain effective in the face of   rising global drug resistance. 24  WHO, “Ending the neglect to attain Sustainable Development Goals: A road map for neglected tropical diseases, 2021 –2030, www.who.int/publications/i/item/9789240010352,.  accessed February 2025. 25  WHO, STH Fact Sheet, www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/soil-transmitted-helminth-infections, accessed February 2025. 26  J&J Press Release: www.jnj.com/media-center/press-releases/johnson-johnson-"
"announces-intention-to-extend-longstanding-vermox-donation-program-through-2030-to-tackle-intestinal- worms-and-help-children-in-marginalized-communities-thrive 27  Based on 10 people infected per 1 non-treated DR-TB patient, WHO data (www.who.int/westernpacific/health-topics/tuberculosis) and cure rate of 87.8% for patients treated with  bedaquiline-containing regimens, based on The Lancet Respiratory Medicine, Volume 392, September 2018, pages 821-34 We have also stated that we would not"
"enforce patents we own and  control for SIRTURO (bedaquiline) to treat MDR-TB in 134 LMICs.   The decision is intended to assure current and future generic  manufacturers that they may manufacture and sell high-quality generic  versions of SIRTURO without a concern that the Company will enforce  its bedaquiline patents, provided the generic versions of SIRTURO  produced or supplied by generic manufacturers are of good quality,  medically acceptable and used only in the 134 LMICs. We are also"
"investing in health systems to equip community health  workers (CHWs) to address underdiagnosis of TB, one of the greatest  barriers to ending the TB epidemic. By supporting CHWs and nonprofit  organizations, we are helping transform how communities understand  and respond to TB, moving us closer to a TB-free world—one patient at  a time. Building on pilot work undertaken in India in 2024, together with  PATH and the National TB Elimination Program with support from the  Johnson & Johnson"
"Foundation, we are on a trajectory to upskill more  than 100,000 CHWs in urban, low-income communities to accelerate  early diagnosis. Supporting patient advocates 2024 marked the 10th anniversary of our J&J HealtheVoices  annual conference. The HealtheVoices team welcomed   125 patient advocates and caregivers who use social media to  advocate for themselves and their health communities—as well  as nearly 100 J&J employees and leaders—for three days of  upskilling, networking and community"
"building. Our approach Innovation & advancing  health for all Our employees Environmental health Accountability & governance Reporting hub Innovating in medicines Innovating in MedTech Technology innovation & AI Oncology Immunology Neuroscience Communicable diseases Cardiovascular Orthopaedics Surgery Vision Supply chain innovation Transforming the supply chain   with digital Advancing health for all Our J&J CareCommunity Contents Expanding access to medicines  and technologies  19 2024 Health"
"for Humanity Report  Our J&J CareCommunity J&J is closing the gap between communities and care through   J&J CareCommunity. Building on our long legacy, J&J CareCommunity   is rooted in championing nurses and health workers, the heart of the  care system, and advancing programs that improve access to quality  care for communities worldwide. The WHO projects a shortage of 10 million health workers by 2030,  including a shortage of 6 million nurses, who make up nearly half of   the world’s"
"healthcare workforce and deliver almost 80% of the   hands-on care.28 CHWs have the potential to play a major role in  closing that gap and connecting communities to care; however, they  remain under-supported and overburdened. Our programs focus on strengthening health systems and improving  patient outcomes by addressing the health workforce shortage and  equipping nurses and CHWs with clinical and leadership skills to thrive  in their careers. To inspire nurses in the U.S. and reignite their"
"sense of purpose, impact  and pride in the profession, we ran a campaign in 2024 championing  nurses as leaders, innovators and change makers with the power to  help advance access to care, improve patient outcomes and transform  healthcare. This includes our “World Without Nurses” campaign during  National Nurses Month. J&J has also been a pioneer in the private sector to mobilize collective  action to accelerate financing to transform the impact of CHWs across  Africa. The Africa Frontline"
"First Catalytic Fund was launched in 2022,  with $25 million from the Johnson & Johnson Foundation and Skoll  Foundation to mobilize $100 million in three years to unlock financing   to train and deploy 200,000 CHWs to deliver essential care to   100 million people by 2030. Matched by the Global Fund and country  governments, the initiative met its initial goal and led to increased  resource mobilization of $219 million at the end of 2024 to strengthen  community health programs across 16"
"countries. 28  WHO, “State of the World’s Nursing 2020,” iris.who.int/bitstream/handle /10665/331673/9789240003293-eng.pdf, accessed February 2025. This includes providing a $7 million grant to the Institut de France to  help the WHO Academy provide continuing education for health workers  anywhere in the world, throughout their careers. Additionally, J&J and  the Johnson & Johnson Foundation are committed to strengthening  health systems in Latin America and the Caribbean by supporting the"
"training of 500,000 health workers by 2028 to expand the skilled health  workforce across the region. Nurses are leaders and innovators: In the U.S. in 2024, more  than 1,100 nurses participated in one of our programs such as  the J&J Nurse Innovation Fellowship, powered by Penn Nursing  and the Wharton School, and NurseHack4Health Pitch-A-Thon,  in collaboration with SONSIEL and Microsoft. These programs  seek to attract and strengthen an innovative and thriving nursing  workforce that improves"
"access to quality care for communities.  By elevating nurse leadership and innovation, they catalyze   work environments where nurses and patients can thrive.   Additional resources provide educational opportunities and   other information touchpoints, reaching 1.9 million nurses. Bringing care to people where they are Community health centers play a critical role in the U.S. healthcare  system, serving more than 31.5 million people—one in 11 people in the  U.S. receives care from a health"
"center. We are also collaborating with  the National Association of Community Health Centers to strengthen  accessible, community-based healthcare and create career pathways  for nurses through grants to 30 health centers across the U.S.   Since 2002, the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) and   J&J Health Care Executive Program (HCEP) has provided leadership and  management training to nearly 1,200 executives and senior leaders  of community-based healthcare organizations, helping to"
"expand the  quality and quantity of care at the community level. The UCLA and   J&J Community Health Advocate Management Program (CHAMP),  modeled after HCEP, aims to help CHW managers and their supervisors  create and sustain improvements in their organization. Over the last  three years, the program has trained more than 200 managers and  supervisors, reaching more than 6,500 CHWs and improving care   for hundreds of thousands of patients. Strengthening professional nursing in Kenya: A three-"
"year  project with Aga Khan University seeks to help develop strategies  to achieve a public image for nurses in Kenya that reflects their  professionalism. Additionally, to address the acute shortage of  nurses in rural health facilities, the project provides scholarships   to more than 270 nursing students from rural areas to increase   the number of qualified nurses in these regions. GRI 203-1, 203-2, J&J24-10; SASB HC-BP-240a.1 Our approach Innovation & advancing  health for all Our"
"employees Environmental health Accountability & governance Reporting hub Innovating in medicines Innovating in MedTech Technology innovation & AI Oncology Immunology Neuroscience Communicable diseases Cardiovascular Orthopaedics Surgery Vision Supply chain innovation Transforming the supply chain   with digital Advancing health for all Expanding access to medicines  and technologies Contents Our J&J CareCommunity  20 2024 Health for Humanity Report Investing in innovative health solutions"
"Through Impact Ventures, an impact investment fund within the  Johnson & Johnson Foundation, we invest in innovative companies and  entrepreneurs addressing the unique needs of patients in communities  that lack access to healthcare. Celebrating its fifth anniversary,   the Impact Ventures portfolio has grown to more than 70 companies,  supporting 750,000 health workers and reaching 90 million patients.   For example, funding from Impact Ventures is helping Certintell, a  telehealth remote"
"patient monitoring company, improve health outcomes  for under-resourced communities across the U.S. by providing primary  care, mental health services and disease management programs. Enhancing access to quality surgical care Two-thirds of the world's population lack access to safe, timely and  affordable surgical care, resulting in 17 million avoidable deaths each   year and many more lifelong disabilities.29 To address the critical  shortage of surgical professionals in LMICs, the Johnson &"
"Johnson  Foundation is supporting the Global Surgery Foundation including  initiatives such as SURGfund, a catalytic funding platform to sustainably  scale surgical care systems, and SURGhub, the UN Global Surgery  Learning Hub. Since its launch in June 2023, SURGhub has attracted  more than 10,000 learners, including more than 70% from LMICs. For more than 35 years, J&J has helped Operation Smile provide  more than 400,000 smiles to children and young adults born with  cleft conditions. As the"
"official suture partner, our shared mission with  Operation Smile is paving a path to health equity through access to  safe surgery. In 2024, we expanded our support by helping to launch  Operation Smile’s Train the Trainers Program in Africa, Latin America  and Asia-Pacific, enabling local health workers to enhance their skills and  train others in their communities. In its first year, the initiative trained  171 nurses and reached more than 115,000 patients. The Asia-Pacific  program, hosted"
"in New Delhi, India, for example, brought together more  than 36 nurses from five countries, empowered by J&J mentors, for  accelerated training in cleft care and leadership to enable more nurses   to be trained closer to home.  Helping millions see around the world In 2024, Sight for Kids, J&J’s school-based eye care program supported  by the Johnson & Johnson Foundation and co-founded with Lions Clubs  International Foundation more than 20 years ago, marked a major  milestone—the program has"
"reached 50 million students around the  world to date, including helping 650,000 students access treatment  and surgeries and providing 515,000 pairs of eyeglasses, and we also  expanded to new cities. Additionally, through our work with organizations like SEE International  and the Cure Blindness Project, we have supported screenings and basic  treatment for people living with cataracts.  Responding in times of crisis  J&J has a history of supporting communities in crisis—from immediate  aid to"
"long-term recovery efforts. In 2024, we worked with trusted  partners to coordinate product donations and support programs that  help communities recover, rebuild and become resilient in the immediate  aftermath of major natural disasters. As a contributor to the American  Red Cross Disaster Responder program, the Johnson & Johnson  Foundation committed to support relief efforts of the American Red  Cross,30 which mobilizes on-the-ground aid for those impacted by  disaster, such as the"
"California wildfires. This includes the Johnson & Johnson Foundation’s $1 million donation  to Americares following hurricanes Helene and Milton, which helped  provide medicine and medical supplies and to restore health services  to communities from Florida to North Carolina, including mental health  support for frontline health workers. Outside the U.S., our disaster  response included more than $1 million to Americares India Foundation  for flood relief in India. The J&J Foundation also"
"supported our partners  during the floods in Eastern Europe and Spain. Addressing the impacts of climate on   healthcare resilience We continue to support CHWs and communities that could experience  the impacts of health inequities exacerbated by climate. Through The  Climate Health Equity for Community Clinics Program, an initiative  J&J supports with Americares and The Center for Climate, Health and  the Global Environment at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health  (Harvard Chan C-CHANGE),"
"we aim to bolster climate resilience in   100 free and charitable clinics and community health centers across the  U.S. by 2025. In 2024, 44 clinics in 8 states participated in the program,  which seeks to reduce the impact of extreme heat and wildfire smoke   on patients’ health.   Participating clinics access an online tool to create their own  customized action plans with targeted interventions for both extreme  heat and wildfire smoke. Suggested interventions in the toolkit could  include"
"stocking up on cooling packs and water, using social media  to share wildfire smoke safety tips or partnering with other local  organizations, such as the fire department, to deliver fans to vulnerable  patients. In 2024, clinics from 30 states were recruited to participate  in the next phase of the project. Additionally, the program launched a  virtual learning collaborative, which included a conference on climate  and health, attended by approximately 80 healthcare professionals   and whose"
"bi-monthly newsletter reaches more than 2,000 community  healthcare workers.     29   The Lancet, Two thirds of the world's population have no access to safe, affordable surgery, ScienceDaily, 27 April 2015. www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2015/04/150427082653.htm 30  The American Red Cross name and logo are used with its permission, which in no way constitutes an endorsement, express or implied, of any product, service, company, opinion or political  position. The American Red Cross name and"
"logo are registered trademarks owned by the American National Red Cross. For more information about the American Red Cross, please visit  redcross.org GRI J&J24-7 Our approach Innovation & advancing  health for all Our employees Environmental health Accountability & governance Reporting hub Innovating in medicines Innovating in MedTech Technology innovation & AI Oncology Immunology Neuroscience Communicable diseases Cardiovascular Orthopaedics Surgery Vision Supply chain innovation Transforming"
"the supply chain   with digital Advancing health for all Expanding access to medicines  and technologies Contents Our J&J CareCommunity   Our employees 94%  of employees responded to Our Credo  Survey, with 85% agreeing that J&J  provides an inclusive work environment  where each employee is considered an  individual >36,000  employees joined ~15,000 courses on   Global Learning Day 2024 in sessions   on the day and through October and   November combined ~34,000  employees came together across"
"74 countries for a Global Activity  Challenge Our employees are critical   to our continued success   and are an essential element   of our long-term strategy.   Guided by Our Credo, we care   for our employees’ physical,  mental, emotional and financial  health. Through attracting,  developing, empowering and  inspiring employees, we foster a  culture of inclusion and belonging  that drives engagement and  retention of our global talent.  22 2024 Health for Humanity Report Attracting,"
"developing, retaining and inspiring talented people is crucial to  all aspects of our business. We promote a culture of learning and inclusion  so that every individual at J&J can contribute to our shared success for our  patients, our customers, our Company and each other.  Employee attraction & development  Learning & development We aim to cultivate a mindset and culture of curiosity through ongoing  learning and discovery by transforming the way employees gain new  experiences and skills, and"
"enable personalized growth that allows  people to shine throughout their careers. In October 2024, employees around the world came together for our  second Global Learning Day, a Company-wide celebration of growth,  collaboration, knowledge sharing and personal development. During the  event, our employees engaged with our Learn platform to self-assess  new skills they had developed, explore opportunities for new learning  and experiences and consider routes to personal and professional"
"development through project-based assignments or mentorship roles.  Learn is our global AI-powered ecosystem that integrates programs  across J&J as a single source for learning and development needs   for all employees. All activities during Global Learning Day were available in 12 languages   on demand and mobile-enabled. Employees assessed more than   112,000 skills, attended workshops and seminars and participated   in group learning sessions.31 > 36,000 employees joined ~15,000 courses on"
"Global Learning  Day 2024 in sessions on the day and through October and  November combined. 60% of the top 10 searches were digital and technology focused.   Global Learning Day 2024  One focus of Global Learning Day 2024 was health  and well-being, including a live webinar on Cultivating  a Resilient Mindset, which drew more than 3,500  participants, and approximately 2,500 employees  completed a Resilience Course. Recognizing that  health and well-being are essential to personal  and"
"professional success, we aimed to reinforce  our approach to helping employees not only with  traditional development opportunities but also with  tools that provide practical help for living a healthy  and balanced life.  Learning & development by the numbers   in 2024 36.9  average training hours per employee $121 million total spend on employee learning & development 998 employees in the U.S. and Puerto Rico participated   in the tuition reimbursement program 1,807  leaders participated in"
"our Enterprise Leader  Development Program GRI 404-2, SASB HC-BP-330a.1 31  Global Learning Day 2024 in sessions on the day and through  October and November combined.  Environmental health Accountability & governance Reporting hub Employee engagement & inclusion Employee health, safety & well-being Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Our employees Employee attraction  Compensation & benefits Listening to our employees Recognizing employees Advancing our inclusive culture"
"Employees for people & planet Assuring workplace safety Prioritizing health & well-being Contents Employee attraction & development Learning & development  23 2024 Health for Humanity Report Our recruitment efforts include outreach through a wide range of  channels and partners to encourage a broad representation of top  qualified candidates. Employee referrals again generated a significant  proportion of our hiring efforts, demonstrating employee confidence   in J&J as an attractive workplace."
"Compensation & benefits At J&J, we recognize our employees’ contributions to delivering our  mission in alignment with our values, and our global compensation  framework includes core principles that guide all compensation decisions  worldwide. We are committed to compensating our employees fairly  and to offering the kinds of benefits that are relevant to meeting the  needs of today’s employees and their families. Our benefits packages  also aim to improve the quality of life for employees by"
"providing  practical support for family, health, education and long-term financial  management needs. In 2024, we continued to implement an annual living wage assessment  in collaboration with Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) to provide  employees with pay that is both market competitive and sufficient to  attain a sustainable standard of living. Position on Employee Development and Total Health and Well-Being    Employee attraction GRI 401-2 Environmental health Accountability &"
"governance Reporting hub Employee attraction & development Employee engagement & inclusion Employee health, safety & well-being Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Our employees Learning & development Listening to our employees Recognizing employees Advancing our inclusive culture Employees for people & planet Assuring workplace safety Prioritizing health & well-being Contents Employee attraction  Compensation & benefits  24 2024 Health for Humanity Report Across J&J, employees"
"find inspiration in our purpose to change health  for humanity. We provide platforms, tools and resources across the  organization to help everyone contribute effectively.  Employee engagement & inclusion We encourage an open and inclusive communications environment so  that everyone feels welcome to offer ideas and suggestions about how  we can improve outcomes for patients and consumers and demonstrate  care for our communities and our planet.  In 2024, J&J’s annual Our Credo Survey, which"
"assesses the health of  our organizational culture and measures the alignment of our actions  with Our Credo values, was conducted in 73 countries and was made  available in 36 languages.  We provided detailed results and action-planning resources to all  leaders with 10 or more responses to help them address areas of  opportunity. Additionally, we continued to offer employees in most  countries the chance to receive a confidential, personalized fulfillment  report designed to enhance self-"
"awareness regarding satisfaction   at work with development suggestions linked to our learning   platform, Learn.  In 2024, we enhanced our employee listening program to better  understand our employees' most pressing concerns and to empower  leaders to take timely actions aligned with Our Credo values.   In addition to the annual Our Credo Survey, the employee listening  portfolio currently includes channels such as an '’always-on'’ pulse  survey, lifecycle surveys and strategic ad hoc surveys"
"conducted   in partnership with key stakeholders. In addition to regional and functional awards programs, we maintain  our colleague recognition platform, Inspire, which reaches all of our  global workforce. 2024 was the fifth year of Inspire, and it generated  more than half a million recognition moments for our global workforce.  Our investment in recognition in 2024 continued to show a positive  correlation to employee engagement and retention; for example, those  receiving more frequent"
"awards are more likely to be rated as high  performers and also showed increased retention.   Listening to our employees  Advancing our   inclusive culture  Recognizing employees At J&J, Our Credo guides everything we do. It affirms our commitment  to fostering an inclusive work environment where each person is  considered an individual and calls on us to respect the diversity and  dignity of all J&J colleagues and recognize their merit. Our global inclusion strategy aims to unlock the potential"
"of every  individual, empowering them to use their unique experiences, abilities,  backgrounds and perspectives to drive meaningful change for employees,  patients, communities and our businesses around the world. We all belong and thrive at J&J. We know that inclusive work environments  drive innovation, which ultimately benefits the patients we serve. Highlights of our progress in driving inclusive impact in 2024 include: •       82% Inclusion Index score, up by 1% from the year prior. Our"
"global  Inclusion Index score reflects how our people leaders are delivering   a culture of inclusion. The Inclusion Index is a subset of the annual  Our Credo Survey, which serves as a significant indicator of employee  satisfaction and measures important aspects of our culture. •         Engaged more than 14,000 J&J employees in our   12 enterprise-wide Employee Business Resource Groups (EBRGs).  Our EBRGs are voluntary, employee-led and open to all J&J employees  to foster belonging, advance"
"innovation and drive better outcomes for  our patients, customers, employees and communities. Our Credo Survey 2024: key results  94% participation rate among  all eligible employees  85% agreed with the statement,  “Provides an inclusive work   environment where each employee  is considered as an individual” 92% agreed with the statement,  “Ensures our first responsibility  is to the patients, doctors and  nurses, mothers and fathers,  and all others who use our  products and services”"
"Environmental health Accountability & governance Reporting hub Employee attraction & development Employee health, safety & well-being Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Our employees Learning & development Employee attraction  Compensation & benefits Employees for people & planet Assuring workplace safety Prioritizing health & well-being Contents Employee engagement & inclusion Listening to our employees Recognizing employees Advancing our inclusive culture  25 2024 Health for"
"Humanity Report We provide platforms, tools and resources across the organization to  help leverage our employees’ unique skills and experiences to contribute  to causes they are passionate about. Matching Gifts Program J&J employees and retirees also contribute financial resources   to nonprofit organizations. Through the Matching Gifts Program,   the Johnson & Johnson Foundation, together with J&J employees   and retirees, contributed more than $50 million to more than   9,500 nonprofit"
"organizations in 2024. Volunteer opportunities for employees About 4,000 employees contributed to nurturing healthy communities  across the globe through a range of programs, underpinned by our  global volunteer leave policy. Employees leverage their passion, skills  and knowledge to bring deep expertise to community organizations   and drive social impact. In 2024, 28 J&J community programs collectively received $10 million  through our Business Matching Fund to enhance our contribution to"
"improving lives for patients across the U.S. The programs include   My Health Can’t Wait, our community-based wellness initiative that  aims to empower people with information and resources to advocate  for and inform their health journeys. Approximately 700 J&J volunteers  supported 34 activations in 2024, contributing more than   6,600 volunteer hours and reaching nearly 130,000 community  members with health information and resources, including almost  38,000 health screenings.  J&J"
"contributes the unique expertise of its employees to solve the  world’s most pressing social challenges. For example, as part of the  J&J Global Secondment Program, 18 J&J managers and senior leaders  lent their talent and experience through immersive experiences to help  10 Impact Ventures of the Johnson & Johnson Foundation portfolio  companies achieve business objectives.  Employees for  people & planet   Using shared experience to drive inclusion Led by the MedTech North America Global Post"
"Market Safety team, this initiative fostered  deeper connections and understanding among  team members. After reviewing employee  sentiment data that showed an opportunity to  drive a more inclusive teamwork environment,  this group developed an action plan to increase a  sense of belonging and to foster an appreciation  of different perspectives. The team celebrated 14 unique events  throughout the year and solicited volunteers  to present on 19 topics of their choice to  increase awareness of"
"the multitude of culturally  significant moments that may be celebrated  by our friends, patients and colleagues.  Presentations were made during weekly huddles,  with a goal of at least one per month and over  the year, and they moved from informational  to fostering deeper connections where team  members shared more about themselves and  their backgrounds. GRI 413-1 J&J employee volunteers at a  My Health Can’t Wait event. Environmental health Accountability & governance Reporting hub Employee"
"attraction & development Employee engagement & inclusion Employee health, safety & well-being Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Our employees Learning & development Employee attraction  Compensation & benefits Listening to our employees Recognizing employees Advancing our inclusive culture Assuring workplace safety Prioritizing health & well-being Contents Employees for people & planet  26 2024 Health for Humanity Report Contributing to a healthy planet Every year, we engage"
"employees in supporting the health of our  planet both at work and at home through dedicated environmental  sustainability programs. Examples of new and continuing programs   in 2024 include: •         WeSustain brings together employees around the world who   are interested in learning and taking action for the planet.   In 2024, WeSustain teams undertook a range of projects to   enhance environmental sustainability knowledge and embed   more sustainable practices at work and in their"
"communities. WeSustain teams in action in 2024  •      Groningen, Netherlands: Helped reduce water use at the   site by identifying opportunities to change manufacturing  process settings •  Raritan, New Jersey: Launched an employee commuter  shuttle service that was used by more than 200 employees •  Aachen, Germany: Helped a local school create an  environmentally friendly learning center with beehives,   an herb garden and an amphitheater •        Philippines: Led a Bring Your Own Mug"
"initiative, reducing   the use of paper cups at their site by approximately 36%  •        Healthy Planet is our virtual platform where employees are  encouraged to learn, act and share ideas about sustainability   in a gamified environment. •        Learning & development programs continue to be a priority,  including the Sustainability Channel on Learn, where employees   can access e-learning such as “Sustainability & My Job.” In 2024,   we introduced focused modules including “Clinical Trials”"
"and   “Design for Sustainability.” Additionally, sustainability was elevated   as a focus area in our leadership development programs for   multiple functions. 32  Healthy Planet and Sustainability Training data are cumulative since 2021. Employee engagement for a healthy planet  by the numbers32 121,000 number of actions taken via   the HealthyPlanet platform 19,000+ cumulative number of  employees completing sustainability training 69 WeSustain teams   in 32 countries Members of WeSustain"
"during a tree planting  event at their site. Environmental health Accountability & governance Reporting hub Employee attraction & development Employee engagement & inclusion Employee health, safety & well-being Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Our employees Learning & development Employee attraction  Compensation & benefits Listening to our employees Recognizing employees Advancing our inclusive culture Assuring workplace safety Prioritizing health & well-being Contents"
"Employees for people & planet  27 2024 Health for Humanity Report We are committed to fostering a culture where employees can prioritize  their total well-being—physical, mental, emotional and financial—as part   of their daily lives.  Employee health, safety & well-being We aim to support a workplace where everyone can thrive and return  home safely at the end of the working day. We apply our global,  Environmental Health & Safety management system and standards to  ensure the safety of"
"employees at our workplaces around the world. Key global safety risk management actions in 2024 include:  •   Implementing a global all-employee road safety campaign to create  awareness of the leading causes of vehicle crashes and encourage  greater attention to road safety. This campaign marked the   30th anniversary of SAFE FLEET, our Company-wide road safety  program that provides training and resources to our more than  30,000 vehicle drivers. Since the inception of SAFE FLEET, road"
"accidents and fleet related injuries at J&J have decreased. •   Expanding the integration of Human and Organizational Performance  (HOP) principles into key manufacturing sites across the Company.  HOP is a methodology to enhance our understanding of how  individuals interact with their work environment, including processes  and procedures to identify and address potential areas where human  error could lead to safety risks. In 2024, 14 sites conducted baseline  assessments that led to"
"actionable plans for implementing HOP  principles and improving workplace safety, bringing the total number  of sites deploying HOP to 28.  •        Completing deployment of ePermit to Work (ePtW), a digitized solution  that enables easy permit requests, workflow approvals and digital risk  assessments for high-risk activities such as work at height, confined  space entry, electrical and other high-risk work. This ePtW process  was applied at sites that included these types of work activities,"
"ultimately supporting the safety and compliance of more than   77,000 employees and more than 13,000 contractors at these locations. We recognize that well-being is not a one-size-fits-all approach, which  is why we provide comprehensive resources, benefits and programs  designed to support employees in ways that matter most to them. In 2024, we furthered our focus on well-being in the following ways: •   Expanding our holistic well-being initiatives: Building on the  success of our My Benefits"
"& Well-Being employee portal, which  integrates all our benefits and rewards in a single platform, we  enhanced resources and communication to reach employees and  people leaders more effectively. •       Raising awareness about mental health: In recognition of World  Mental Health Day, we encouraged employees to participate in our  Mental Well-Being Fundamentals training to introduce them to the  mental health and well-being continuum, increase self-awareness and  provide knowledge and tools"
"necessary to access the right support at  the right time. This effort was complemented with Inspire, our internal  employee recognition platform (see section: Recognizing employees),  which empowered employees to recognize their fellow colleagues   who champion mental health awareness and foster a culture of care. •      Expanding our global well-being reimbursement: To encourage  healthy lifestyles, in 2024, we added new and additional reimbursement  options for employees to move more, eat"
"healthy, recharge and  prioritize their mental well-being. Employees can now be reimbursed  for purchases of outdoor equipment and for mental well-being  resources. These new options open possibilities for employees   to recharge and prioritize their total well-being in a way that works   best for them.  Assuring workplace safety  Prioritizing health &   well-being •  Improving total compensation understanding: We also launched  our “Uncomplicating Compensation” video information series to  help"
"employees navigate and understand the composition of their  total compensation, including base pay, annual performance bonus,  long-term incentives and recognition rewards. The series provides  clear, straightforward explanations to help employees make informed  financial decisions. In 2024, we hosted the annual Global Activity Challenge with  nearly 34,000 employees from 74 countries coming together  in 7,000 teams to promote total well-being and foster healthy  activity in a personalized way."
"Together, J&J teams took a  combined 6.7 billion steps, increasing their movement by 55%. 2024 Healthy Workforce  16,800+ employees completed  well-being courses. 88% of employees believe senior leadership  supports their health & well-being  according to the 2024 Our Credo Survey.  92% of employees believe J&J maintains clean,  orderly and safe working conditions,  according to the 2024 Our Credo Survey. GRI 403-6 Environmental health Accountability & governance Reporting hub Employee"
"attraction & development Employee engagement & inclusion Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Our employees Learning & development Employee attraction  Compensation & benefits Listening to our employees Recognizing employees Advancing our inclusive culture Employees for people & planet Contents Employee health, safety & well-being Assuring workplace safety Prioritizing health & well-being   Environmental  health To support a healthy environment  and the resilience of our"
"business,  we focus our efforts in four  strategic areas: •       decarbonizing our operations  and value chain; •        improving the environmental  performance of our product  portfolio;  •  partnering to advance  sustainable healthcare; and  •   empowering our employees to  lead the way on sustainability. 26% reduction of our absolute  Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions  since 2021 88%  of J&J’s global electricity is  sourced from renewable sources 14 countries have hospitals with  J&J’s recycling"
"program for  single-use medical devices A healthcare worker at a UK  hospital that participates in  J&J’s recycling program for  single-use medical devices.  “ 29 2024 Health for Humanity Report We are committed to environmental  stewardship, delivering positive environmental    impact across our operations, value chain  and product portfolio, while also doing  our part to support a more resilient and  sustainable healthcare sector. The progress  we see today builds on decades of work to support"
"the health  of our planet—because healthy people and a healthy business  depend on it.” Paulette Frank,   Chief Sustainability Officer, Johnson & Johnson We are making strong progress towards our near-term climate goals,  which were updated in 2024 to reflect the footprint of our two-segment  Company. These goals have been validated by the Science Based  Targets initiative (SBTi). To support the decarbonization and resilience of our operations and value  chain, J&J has been setting and achieving"
"public-facing climate-related  goals for more than three decades.  Decarbonizing our operations   & value chain  Our climate goals Renewable electricity Our goal: By 2025, source 100% of our electricity needs from   renewable sources.33 Our results: 88% of electricity is sourced from renewable   energy sources.34 Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions Our goal: Reduce absolute Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions 44% by 2030,  from a 2021 base year. 33 Our results: 26% absolute reduction in Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions"
"versus 2021 base year. Value chain Our goal: 80% of J&J suppliers by emissions covering Purchased Goods  and Services and Upstream Transportation and Distribution will have  science based targets by 2028. Our results: In 2024, 24% of our Scope 3 Purchased Goods and Services  and Upstream Transportation and Distribution emissions came from  suppliers with science based targets. Due to changes in our supply base,  we saw a slight decrease in our coverage of emissions from suppliers with  science"
"based targets versus 2023.  We continue to drive the adoption of renewable energy across our  global operations. As of the end of 2024, we maintain 43 on-site  renewable energy systems in 16 countries, and we have executed   15 contracts for off-site renewable electricity procurement. Our use of  renewable electricity is a significant factor in reducing our operational  carbon emissions.  In 2024, a virtual power purchase agreement (PPA) came online in   the U.S. in the form of a 55-megawatt"
"solar field located in Texas.   When added to existing on-site and off-site renewable electricity  projects, this virtual PPA ensures that all our operations in the U.S.   and Canada are sourcing the equivalent of 100% of their electricity   from renewable sources. We also completed multiple on-site renewable energy systems, including: •   An installation consisting of more than 8,000 solar panels was added  to a new carport at our J&J campus in Beerse, Belgium, producing  5-gigawatt hours of"
"renewable electricity annually; and •       A new 1.5-megawatt solar panel array was added to our   J&J manufacturing site in Xi'an, China.  Renewable electricity across our operations   (as of the end of 2024)34 88% Global 100% U.S. and Canada 33    Includes all J&J-owned sites, all manufacturing and R&D sites, and leased administrative  or warehouse sites of more than 50,000 sq ft, where J&J has operational control, unless  otherwise noted. 34  This data is the percentage of electricity used"
"by J&J that is generated from renewable  sources, including on-site and off-site renewable systems, such as direct PPAs, virtual  PPAs, Utility Green Tariffs and Energy Attribute Certificates. Europe includes Belgium,  France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Spain, Sweden,  Switzerland and the UK. North America includes the U.S. and Canada only. U.S. does not  include Puerto Rico.  Increasing our use of  renewable electricity 100% Europe GRI 201-2, 302-1, 302-3"
"Accountability & governance Reporting hub Environmental health Sustainable products & solutions Our employees Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Managing risk & compliance Increasing energy efficiency & use  of low-carbon technologies  Addressing upstream emissions Improving packaging sustainability Product end-of-life & circularity    Implementing green chemistry Standardizing product   lifecycle assessment (LCA)   in pharmaceuticals   Contents Decarbonizing our operations &"
"value chain  Increasing our use of renewable  electricity  30 2024 Health for Humanity Report Co-generation Wind Solar PV Geothermal Biomass 437 130 68 5 72 We continued to invest in energy-efficient processes, equipment   and decarbonization efforts at our sites.  Projects completed in 2024 include: •       A heat recovery system at our site in Suzhou, China, that provides   hot water to reduce the use of steam needed for heating; •         A chilled water optimization project at our"
"manufacturing site in Anasco,  Puerto Rico, helps save more than 700 metric tons CO2e per year; and •       A waste heat recovery project at our medicine products site in  Schaffhausen, Switzerland, recovers waste heat from various  manufacturing processes and supplies the recovered energy to the  heating ventilation and air conditioning system via a heat recovery  heat pump, saving more than 34,000 kWh of energy per year. GHG emissions (MT CO2e) GHG emissions intensity  (Scope 1 + Scope 2) by"
"revenue  (MT CO2e/million $) Scope 1 Scope 2 (Market-based) GHG emissions intensity 2024 2023 2022 600,000 500,000 400,000 300,000 200,000 100,000 0 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 Purchased energy   use by type (TJ) Total energy use (TJ) On-site generated  energy use   by type (TJ) Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions and intensity 9 J&J sites received Leadership in   Energy & Environmental Design (LEED)  certification bringing the total number of   J&J sites that have been certified as LEED   or equivalent35 to 71, and"
"the total area of  building space that has been LEED-certified   to 9 million square feet. 1 site in Geel, Belgium, received certification to  the Antibiotic Manufacturing Standard (AMS),  a designation for the responsible production  of antibiotics to minimize risk of antimicrobial  resistance in the environment. Select environmental certifications in 2024 3 sites achieved ISO 14001 certification,   bringing the total to 58 sites that meet   the ISO 14001 Environmental Management  System"
"Standard. This represents 97% of   J&J manufacturing and R&D sites. CO2 Capital Relief Program $30 million amount spent on completed & ongoing projects (annual) 17% average Internal Rate of Return (IRR) (annual) Since 2005, we have allocated up to $40 million per year in  capital relief through our CO2 Capital Relief Program for energy  projects at our sites that demonstrate potential CO2 savings   and a financial return. 35  Includes Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment"
"Methodology (BREEAM). $6 million projected energy cost savings (annual)   Increasing energy efficiency  & use of low-carbon  technologies  GRI 302-4, 302-5 Electricity Natural gas Diesel Direct heating/cooling Propane Biogas Fuel oil 4,545 3,084 17 5 48 208 372 Accountability & governance Reporting hub Environmental health Decarbonizing our operations &  value chain  Sustainable products & solutions Our employees Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Managing risk & compliance"
"Increasing our use of renewable  electricity Addressing upstream emissions Improving packaging sustainability Product end-of-life & circularity    Implementing green chemistry Standardizing product   lifecycle assessment (LCA)   in pharmaceuticals   Contents Increasing energy efficiency & use  of low-carbon technologies   31 2024 Health for Humanity Report We have implemented several initiatives to help mitigate our   Scope 3 emissions. We recognize the importance of engaging our key suppliers"
"in support   of our Scope 3 goal. Our approach to supplier engagement includes: •         Improving data quality: We are collecting carbon emissions data  for key aspects of our supply base, as well as using data science  capabilities to visualize CDP Supply Chain data that shows the  maturity level of our largest-emitting suppliers, including their   goals, emissions footprint and reductions to support more targeted  supplier engagement. •      Building capacity to reduce emissions: Through our"
"Onward Program,  we help educate suppliers on the business value and concrete actions  they can take to set science-based carbon reduction goals and to  decarbonize their operations. Through the Energize Program, we are  collaborating with peer companies to provide trainings and resources  to support renewable electricity adoption for pharmaceutical suppliers.  Through the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI), our  suppliers have access to climate-related training, including a new"
"toolkit that outlines steps they can take to manage and reduce their  carbon emissions. As part of our ongoing work with Manufacture  2030, we continued to collaborate with industry peers to engage  active pharmaceutical ingredient suppliers through the Activate  program (see section: Responsible supply base).  Addressing logistics emissions  We continued to identify opportunities to reduce emissions from our  transportation and logistics operations by changing to lower emitting  modes of travel"
"and by switching to lower carbon fuels.   For example, we changed the shipping mode for multiple standard  routes from air to ocean, including for select shipments from our  Memphis Logistics Center (U.S.) to our European Distribution Center  (Belgium), as well as shipments from our Limerick (Ireland) site to China,  Korea, Japan and the U.S. We implemented hydrotreated vegetable oil  fuel for local road shipping routes of medicine products in Belgium. Measuring emissions in clinical trials  J&J"
"helped develop and launch an open access tool for estimating   the GHG emissions of clinical trials. The tool, which is intended for  clinical research organizations, can calculate the emissions of different  activities associated with design, management and operations to  identify opportunities to reduce the carbon footprint of clinical  research. This cross-industry solution was built in collaboration with   the Sustainable Healthcare Coalition, several peer companies and  academic research"
"institutions. Decarbonizing pharmaceutical manufacturing  Solvents, such as virgin raw material input to the synthesis of APIs,  are a driver of GHG emissions generated through the manufacturing  process.36 To reduce the amount of virgin solvents, we work closely with  a partner to recover and reuse solvents used in the production of one of  our key product lines at our site in Geel, Belgium. This process allows us  to reduce our annual virgin solvent use by more than 1,300 metric tons.  We"
"share our learning from this work with our external manufacturers. Our approach to climate risk assessment  In 2024, we completed a reevaluation of our risk from potential  climate impacts by conducting an in-depth assessment of  exposure to physical and transition risks for our operations  across different time horizons and scenarios. Climate-related  risks are integrated into our facilities and enterprise-wide risk  management process to help future-proof our business, secure  long-term"
"financial sustainability and build site resilience. In 2024 a PPA came online  in the U.S. in the form of a  solar field located in Texas.  Photo courtesy of Ørsted.  36  McKinsey and Company, “Decarbonizing API manufacturing,” www.mckinsey.com/industries/life-sciences/our-insights/decarbonizing-api-manufacturing-unpacking- the-cost-and-regulatory-requirements, accessed February 2025.  Addressing upstream  emissions Engaging suppliers in decarbonizing   their operations Accountability &"
"governance Reporting hub Environmental health Decarbonizing our operations &  value chain  Sustainable products & solutions Our employees Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Managing risk & compliance Increasing our use of renewable  electricity Increasing energy efficiency & use  of low-carbon technologies  Improving packaging sustainability Product end-of-life & circularity    Implementing green chemistry Standardizing product   lifecycle assessment (LCA)   in pharmaceuticals"
"Contents Addressing upstream emissions  32 2024 Health for Humanity Report Across our diverse portfolio, we continued to improve our product  packaging. For example, in 2024, we: •   Replaced blister packaging used in a home-administered oncology  product with high-density polyethylene bottles in our Europe, Middle  East & Africa (EMEA) region. This material can be recycled in EMEA  through standard waste streams where local infrastructure allows;  •         Launched sterile instruments for the"
"TN-ADVANCED Tibial Nailing  System in our orthopaedics business in outer carton boxes containing  54% post-consumer recycled paper-based content; •        Deployed third-party certified carton boxes with chain of custody  sourced from responsibly managed forests for select products in   our electrophysiology business; and •      Partnered with the Sustainable Healthcare Coalition and Optegra,  a provider of eye healthcare in the UK, to evaluate the waste benefits  of using a reusable intraocular"
"lens (IoL) inserter during cataract  surgery instead of a single-use product. The study showed that  using the reusable titanium IoL UNFOLDER VITAN could result in  reductions in packaging waste as well as shipping materials, shipping  journeys and storage requirements, compared to the current single- use system. We are working to improve the environmental performance of our product  portfolio. We focus our efforts where we can have a positive impact,  including packaging, product end of life"
"and green chemistry.  Sustainable products   & solutions In 2024, we expanded certain product end-of-life recycling and   circular solutions initiatives, including: •      Recycling medical devices: J&J’s hospital recycling program for  single-use medical devices expanded to a total of 14 countries in  Europe and New Zealand. The program allows hospitals to recycle  specific metal and plastic components from certain J&J single-use  instruments. Additionally, we expanded the scope of the program"
"to  include the collection of Suture ALU Foil packaging in three countries. •   Reprocessing medical devices: J&J continued to offer reprocessed  single-use medical devices in parts of our portfolio in the U.S.   and Canada. We also reprocess products from other manufacturers   in these markets. In 2024, we reprocessed approximately   300,000 devices. •     Taking back pharmaceutical devices: Our Safe Returns program  expanded to Austria, Ireland, the UK and Belgium. The program, which  allows"
"patients to return used self-injectable devices in convenient  paper envelopes, is now available in six countries in Europe, in addition  to the U.S. Through our investment, we built and operationalized a  machine in Switzerland to disassemble devices collected through Safe  Returns in Europe as part of our efforts to support eventual recycling  of some device components. •     Addressing digital health waste: We continued to coordinate the  Digital Health in a Circular Economy (DiCE)"
"initiative, which is a  collaboration of more than 20 organizations. Accomplishments of the  collaboration in 2024 included the creation of refurbishable digital  display label prototypes, which could replace standard, single-use  digital labels that are increasingly being used on clinical trial kits.  Digital labels allow for information on the kits to be updated as  needed, avoiding the kits being disposed of when information on   the label is outdated.  Improving packaging  sustainability"
"Product end-of-life   & circularity  GRI J&J24-11; SASB HC-MS-410a.1,HC-MS-410a.2  Hospital recycling program:  Suture ALU Foil packaging Accountability & governance Reporting hub Environmental health Decarbonizing our operations &  value chain  Our employees Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Managing risk & compliance Increasing our use of renewable  electricity Increasing energy efficiency & use  of low-carbon technologies  Addressing upstream emissions Implementing green"
"chemistry Standardizing product   lifecycle assessment (LCA)   in pharmaceuticals   Contents Sustainable products & solutions Improving packaging sustainability Product end-of-life & circularity     33 2024 Health for Humanity Report  Implementing  green chemistry We continued to integrate principles of green chemistry and  engineering into the development of our medicines. These practices  help to develop chemical synthesis routes and processes that increase  resource efficiency and promote the"
"reduction of solvents and the use  of non‑hazardous solvents and reagents with lower carbon emissions.  For example, we continued to focus on the development of biocatalytic  conversion processes as enzymatic, water-based chemistry, which  avoids the use of organic solvents in multiple steps in the synthesis  route. Additionally, we became active participants in a new collaboration,  PHARMECO, that aims to implement the European Commission’s safe  and sustainable design framework in"
"pharmaceutical products.  Standardizing product  lifecycle assessment (LCA)  in pharmaceuticals We continued to play an active role in the Pharmaceutical LCA  Consortium, a collaboration of global pharmaceutical companies that  aims to facilitate a universal approach to assessing the environmental  impact of pharmaceutical products. In 2024, the Consortium  collaborated with NHS England and other global partners on the  development of product category rules (PCR) for pharmaceutical  products,"
"which can improve the measurement and reporting of  environmental information. Engaging our employees to lead the way: All work is reinforced  through the ongoing activities of our employees. Through bespoke  programs and learning opportunities, we inspire employees to take  action in the workplace, at home and in our communities   (see section: Employees for people & planet). Partnering to advance healthcare  sector sustainability  We continued to participate in coalitions to  accelerate our"
"own progress and support a   more sustainable healthcare sector. In 2024, we became founding partners of: •   Collaborative for Healthcare Action to Reduce  MedTech Emissions (CHARME), a convening of  health systems, suppliers, distributors and other  industry players; •       PHARMECO,37 a public-private partnership to  accelerate sustainable practices across the  pharmaceutical sector; and •  ENKORE,37 a collaboration for sustainable design   of single-use medical devices and packaging.   We"
"also continued to participate in multiple   cross-industry initiatives, including: •       Clean Energy Buyers Association •       National Academy of Medicine’s Action Collaborative  on Decarbonizing the U.S. Health Sector •  Sustainable Healthcare Coalition •      WWF Climate Business Network •  Pharmaceutical Life-Cycle Assessment Consortium •       Healthcare Plastics Recycling Coalition •       Digital Health in a Circular Economy (DiCE)38 •         Renewable Thermal Collaborative •"
"Prioritisation and Risk Evaluation of Medicines in the  Environment (PREMIER)37  Dr. Victor Dzau, President  of the National Academy of  Medicine, and Paulette Frank,  J&J’s Chief Sustainability  Officer, at Climate Week NYC. 37   Program led by Innovative Health Initiative, an EU public-private partnership   funding health research and innovation in Europe. 38  Funded by the European Union under the Horizon Europe Research and   Innovation Programme. J&J was the first Health Program Partner"
"for Climate Week NYC.  This was J&J’s seventh year sponsoring the event. Accountability & governance Reporting hub Environmental health Decarbonizing our operations &  value chain  Sustainable products & solutions Our employees Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Managing risk & compliance Increasing our use of renewable  electricity Increasing energy efficiency & use  of low-carbon technologies  Addressing upstream emissions Improving packaging sustainability Product end-of-"
"life & circularity    Contents Implementing green chemistry Standardizing product   lifecycle assessment (LCA)   in pharmaceuticals    34 2024 Health for Humanity Report In our own operations, the majority of J&J’s manufacturing and   R&D sites are certified as meeting the ISO 14001 Environmental  Management System.  Position on Environmental Stewardship     Position on Environmental Health & Safety Management Biodiversity We are continuing to assess the footprints of our properties for"
"potential risks to sensitive flora or fauna, which helps inform the  development of action plans as needed. To address potential  biodiversity impacts across our supply chain, we expect our   suppliers to integrate biodiversity considerations and programs   into their operations and supply base. Our Approach to Nature and Biodiversity Water stewardship We work to improve water use efficiency across our operations by  reducing water demand, increasing water reuse and prioritizing water"
"management actions using a risk-based approach that accounts  for location-specific water risks at our sites worldwide. We play an  important role in supporting initiatives to proactively assess and  mitigate the potential impact of pharmaceuticals in the environment.   We have a program for managing pharmaceuticals in the environment  in our operations and extended value chain. Position on Pharmaceuticals in the Environment Our strategic priorities are underpinned by a robust environmental"
"management system, standards and programs to support compliance and   to manage potential risk in areas such as biodiversity, water stewardship  and responsible chemical management.  Managing risk & compliance  Responsible chemical management Our approach to responsible chemical management in our operations  focuses on occupational health and safety and aims to minimize  potential risk of chemicals to the environment and the communities in  which we operate. We use scientific evidence as the"
"basis to assess  environmental and worker health and safety risks associated with  chemicals in our operations.  Position on Responsible Chemical Management Accountability & governance Reporting hub Environmental health Decarbonizing our operations &  value chain  Sustainable products & solutions Our employees Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Increasing our use of renewable  electricity Increasing energy efficiency & use  of low-carbon technologies  Addressing upstream"
"emissions Improving packaging sustainability Product end-of-life & circularity    Implementing green chemistry Standardizing product   lifecycle assessment (LCA)   in pharmaceuticals   Contents Managing risk & compliance   Accountability  & governance $15 billion  in total tax contribution around  the world 97%  of sales and marketing employees  completed Health Care Compliance  training >1,000 suppliers engaged to complete  EcoVadis assessments At J&J, we believe acting  ethically and"
"responsibly is   not only the right thing to do,   but also the right thing to do  for our business. We have  an unwavering commitment  to ethical and compliant  leadership behaviors, ensuring  that we hold ourselves and  how we do business to a high  standard, allowing us to fulfill  our obligations to the many  stakeholders we serve.  36 2024 Health for Humanity Report Rigorous corporate governance is a critical  component of how we operate. It promotes  continuous improvement and ensures"
"sound  management of our business, in turn serving    as a key enabler in how we meet our    responsibilities to all Our Credo stakeholders. Elizabeth Forminard, Executive Vice President,   Chief Legal Officer, Johnson & Johnson Effective governance is the foundation of our ESG strategy,   and the Company’s oversight of ESG starts with our Board.  Corporate governance Significant potential ESG risks, including healthcare compliance, certain  environmental matters, cybersecurity and human capital"
"management,  are reviewed and evaluated by the Board of Directors and its  Committees as part of their overall risk oversight of our Company. Beyond the Board, our governance structure, policies and processes  are designed to serve the needs of our business, our shareholders and  other stakeholders while promoting a culture of accountability.   For more information, please see our  Position on Corporate Governance  and our  Corporate Governance overview, which includes our Board committee"
"charters and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings. “ J&J is committed to paying our fair share of taxes.39 Our tax footprint  evolves over time and reflects our business activities and investments in  each respective jurisdiction, including in R&D and manufacturing.   What does not waver is our commitment to good corporate citizenship,  which we demonstrate through sustainable values and behaviors relating  to tax governance, compliance, planning, risk management, relationship"
"with governmental authorities and transparency, all of which are more  fully described in our  Tax Policy .  In 2024, J&J contributed approximately $15 billion in taxes and  fees to governments and economies around the world. This Total Tax  Contribution includes two components: •      Total Taxes Borne: In 2024, J&J bore $8.9 billion in taxes around the   world. The taxes include corporate income taxes, the Company’s share  of payroll and social insurance taxes and the Company’s share of sales"
"and other taxes. Sales taxes include sales, use and nonrecoverable  value-added tax. Other taxes are primarily comprised of customs  and other duties such as local taxes and special fees related to the  pharmaceutical industry. •     Total Taxes Collected: Additionally, in 2024 J&J collected   $6.1 billion related to the commerce the Company generates.   These collections were in the form of payroll and social insurance  taxes from approximately 138,000 employees across the world, sales  and use"
"taxes, and value-added taxes. These taxes are collected  on behalf of governments from employees, customers and other  business partners. Taxes Collected are an important part of the  contribution made by J&J through job creation and business activities  in the many countries in which we operate. Our intent is to provide a comprehensive view of total taxes paid around  the world. Corporate Income Tax represents payments in all markets  in which we operate and is the amount reported as “Total"
"cash taxes  paid net of refunds” in the 2024 Annual Report. Other taxes shown  aggregate our data from 37 major markets that represent the vast  majority of our revenues.  Tax responsibility  39  The tax information contained in this section is intended to provide the reader with   an overview of all taxes contributed by Johnson & Johnson, and not just income taxes.   It should be read in conjunction with the Company’s tax information filed with the   U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission"
"(SEC), including in the most recently filed  Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Annual Report on Form 10-K. This tax information   is supplemental to, and not a substitute for, the information reported in the Company’s  SEC filings. GRI 2-9, 207-1, 207-2, 207-4 In 2024, Johnson & Johnson continued to  pay significantly more U.S. corporate income  tax contrary to false narratives that the  biopharmaceutical industry does not pay tax  in the U.S. Of the $6.7 billion of corporate  income taxes paid"
"by the Company in 2024,  $4.1 billion was paid in the U.S. versus $2.6 billion to all other  countries combined. We remain committed to our longstanding  practice of making substantial investments and related  contributions that benefit the U.S.” Alyson Lawrence,   Vice President, Global Taxation, Johnson & Johnson “ 2024 Tax Contribution (Billions) Taxes Borne Taxes Collected Payroll & Social Insurance Taxes $1.5 $4.8 Sales/Use & Other Taxes $0.7 $1.3 Corporate Income Tax $6.7 — Total $8.9 $6.1"
"Total Tax Contribution  $15.0 Accountability & governance Information security & data privacy Ethics & compliance Respecting human rights Safeguarding animal welfare Product quality & safety Quality management Medical safety Counterfeiting & illicit trade Reporting hub Responsible supply base Supplier sustainability Small business development Environmental health Our employees Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Contents Corporate governance Tax responsibility   37 2024 Health"
"for Humanity Report We believe in maintaining proactive, robust information security and  data privacy controls to protect our business, employees, patients,  customers and all those who entrust their information to us.   Our Information Security & Risk Management organization, led by our  Chief Information Security Officer, and Data Privacy organization, led  by our Chief Privacy Officer, provide ongoing security and data privacy  oversight on relevant policies, procedures and requirements for"
"all  J&J’s businesses. Key actions in 2024 include: •    Enhanced security protection and monitoring of privileged accounts40  to help reduce unauthorized access and malicious harm to critical  Company assets; •      Expanded deployment of Network Access Control capability to  multiple company sites around the globe with the aim of preventing  unauthorized devices connecting to the Company network,  strengthening the security of the network and reducing the   potential for security breaches; and"
"•   Provided increased security at key J&J R&D labs, enhancing protection  of critical systems used to develop new drugs and therapies. Position on Information Security     Position on Data Privacy Protection of healthcare data, our systems,  and intellectual property through a strong  cybersecurity foundation is paramount  and an essential enabler for us to continue  delivering trusted solutions that advance  global health.” Gary Harbison, Chief Information Security Officer, Johnson & Johnson"
"Information security  & data privacy “ 40  Privileged accounts are those that provide users with more permissions and the ability to  take certain advanced actions that are not available to general users.  GRI 418-1 Accountability & governance Corporate governance Tax responsibility  Ethics & compliance Respecting human rights Safeguarding animal welfare Product quality & safety Quality management Medical safety Counterfeiting & illicit trade Reporting hub Responsible supply base Supplier"
"sustainability Small business development Environmental health Our employees Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Contents Information security & data privacy  38 2024 Health for Humanity Report Our focus on compliance plays a critical role  in J&J’s ability to continue to grow, maintain  a competitive advantage and live into our  commitment to patients around the world.” Dirk Brinckman,    Chief Compliance Officer, Johnson & Johnson The values that guide our decision-making are"
"set out in Our Credo,   which embodies our core tenets and directs us to consider all actions  through the lens of impact to Our Credo stakeholders.   Ethics & compliance We strive to ensure all employees and contingent workers know their  responsibilities to act in accordance with applicable laws, regulations  and industry codes, as well as the Company’s internal standards and  expectations for ethical and compliant conduct. Building on Our  Credo values, Our Code of Business Conduct (Code) and"
"Health Care  Compliance (HCC) policies list comprehensive ethical standards for  decisions and actions in every market where we operate. Mandatory  Code training is conducted every two years, and HCC training is  conducted each year. All new employees are assigned and required   to complete Code, HCC and other relevant required trainings.   See our Code of Business Conduct and  Position on Ethics and Compliance .  Evaluated by an external proprietary methodology to measure  the effectiveness of"
"our training program, our annual Enterprise  HCC training demonstrated a statistically significant impact on  learning transfer for the fourth year in a row. In 2024, 97% of sales and marketing employees completed   HCC training. The J&J Our Credo Integrity Line is an independent, secure and  confidential mechanism for anonymous reporting (where permitted by  local law) of suspected concerns or potential violations of our policies  or the law. This channel is available 24 hours a day, seven days"
"a week,  and in 24 languages—accessible to anyone, including employees,  partners, customers, consumers, and other agents—to report any  clarifications, questions or concerns regarding our practices. We are  committed to maintaining an environment in which anyone can report  without fear of retaliation, including anonymously, any conduct they  consider or believe to be in violation of Company policies or values.   The analysis of reported issues is undertaken impartially, independently and"
"confidentially (see Reporting hub: Inquiries and complaints representing  potential misconduct through Our Credo Integrity Line by category). Aspects of ethics & compliance we advanced in 2024 included: Embedding compliance controls with digital To support our regulatory advertising and promotions compliance team,  we launched the Promotional Regulatory Oversight AI Compliance  Tool. This tool leverages GenAI to assist in promotional due diligence,  enable precedence identification, analyze"
"trends and help assess  potential exposure to risk in the advertising and promotional area.  It unlocks advanced analytical capabilities, allowing users to pose  complex questions and gain insights that were previously unattainable.  Additionally, we integrated new tools into existing processes, for  example, guidance to address risks in the lifecycle of third-party  intermediary relationships and a digital tool to improve the efficiency   and effectiveness of root-cause analysis processes."
"Providing guidance for ethical interactions We developed supplementary guidance for our employees relating to  compliant interactions with government officials, integrity in medical  “ research and avoiding potential biases, and ensuring charitable  contributions meet ethical and legal standards. All relevant employees  were provided with detailed training in these topics. Supporting international trade We created an integrated Global Trade Compliance Framework to assist  our employees in"
"navigating complex trade requirements. This resource  brings together a range of existing compliance guidelines into a single  framework to guide the lawful import and export of J&J products,  services or technology across country borders. The new Framework  supports compliance with trade agreements and promotes ethical  business practices globally. Award-winning compliance training In 2024, J&J was honored as best in class among industry leaders in  compliance training and tools with three Gold"
"and one Silver Brandon  Hall awards, including our Alliance Game that earned the Gold award for  Best Use of Games/Simulations for Learning. Engaging externally to promote business ethics We engage widely in our industry to promote integrity, compliance,  anti-corruption and responsible corporate conduct. J&J healthcare  compliance experts regularly participate in industry events and panel  discussions, including, in 2024, the APEC Business Ethics for SMEs  Forum, the world’s largest public-"
"private partnership to strengthen  ethical business practices in the medical device and biopharmaceutical  sectors, and the OECD Global Anti-Corruption & Integrity Forum. In March 2024, J&J senior leaders participated in a   panel discussion on “Galvanizing the Private Sector as   Partners in Combating Corruption” at the OECD Global  Anti-Corruption & Integrity Forum. GRI 2-27, 205-2, J&J24-4 Accountability & governance Corporate governance Tax responsibility  Information security & data privacy"
"Respecting human rights Safeguarding animal welfare Product quality & safety Quality management Medical safety Counterfeiting & illicit trade Reporting hub Responsible supply base Supplier sustainability Small business development Environmental health Our employees Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Contents Ethics & compliance  39 2024 Health for Humanity Report Our  Position on Human Rights  sets out our commitment to respecting and  promoting human rights across our"
"operations, through our business  relationships and in the communities in which we operate. Governance Our Enterprise Human Rights Governance Council (EHRGC), comprising  senior leaders representing key functions, leads our global human  rights program management and met regularly throughout 2024 to set  priorities and monitor progress. Two members of the J&J Executive  Committee—the Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources  Officer; and the Executive Vice President, Chief Technical"
"Operations &  Risk Officer—serve as executive sponsors of our human rights program.  The Regulatory Compliance & Sustainability Committee (RCSC) of the  Board of Directors oversees management’s approach to human rights.  In 2024, the RCSC again received an update on the continued evolution  of the Company’s approach to human rights and external regulatory  developments and stakeholder developments. Due diligence Our due diligence processes and management systems across our  business help"
"identify and address potential and actual human rights  impacts. In 2024, we continued our work to strengthen fair working  conditions for our employees and workers in our supply base by more  deeply integrating due diligence procedures, risk assessments and  accountabilities into human resources and procurement management  systems (see sections: Our employees and Responsible supply base). External engagement We participate in external platforms to share insights and good  practices across the"
"healthcare sector and with other industries,  including Shift’s Business Learning Program, BSR’s Human Rights  Working Group and the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI)  Human Rights and Labor Working Group. In 2024, J&J co-led two PSCI  working groups to advance the industry’s understanding and action on  human rights due diligence and the legislative landscape. Raising concerns We are committed to maintaining an environment in which anyone can  report conduct they consider or believe"
"to be in violation of Company  policies or values without fear of retaliation, through the Our Credo  Integrity Line (see section: Ethics & compliance). Research involving animals has led to major medical advances and will  continue to be an important part of further discoveries until viable  nonanimal alternatives are developed and accepted. Our Global Animal  Welfare Officer is responsible for ensuring adherence to and monitoring  of our animal welfare standards and has a direct, independent"
"line of  communication and oversight with Company management. Guided by our  Animal Welfare Policy  and associated Global Animal Welfare  Councils, J&J is committed to the 3Rs principles for the ethical  treatment of animals involved in biomedical research—replacing,  reducing and refining the study of animals whenever possible.  Achievements related to the 3Rs are recognized in our annual awards  program. In 2024, the winning innovation was for the development  and validation of an animal-free"
"assay for pyrogen detection within  monoclonal antibodies for Good Manufacturing Practices use. Also in 2024, we internally launched a new multiyear animal welfare  strategic framework that will continue to drive progress and the  ongoing reduction of animals involved in biomedical research.  Respecting human rights  Safeguarding animal   welfare   Responsible use of AI At J&J, we aspire to use AI in an ethical way,   with Our Credo and our Code of Business  Conduct as our inspiration and"
"roadmap. We  provide guidance for our employees for use of  publicly available Generative AI platforms to  strengthen compliance on critical issues such as  protecting company data. By understanding the  ethical challenges of leveraging AI, we can shape  our use of this technology to make a positive  impact in a responsible manner. See our paper  Doing the right thing: AI & ethics .  GRI 402-1, 407-1, 408-1, 409-1, J&J24-3  Accountability & governance Corporate governance Tax responsibility"
"Information security & data privacy Ethics & compliance Product quality & safety Quality management Medical safety Counterfeiting & illicit trade Reporting hub Responsible supply base Supplier sustainability Small business development Environmental health Our employees Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Contents Respecting human rights Safeguarding animal welfare  40 2024 Health for Humanity Report J&J products reach patients worldwide, and we have a responsibility, guided  by"
"Our Credo, to ensure that “everything we do must be of high quality.”  Patient safety and product quality have been, and will always remain,   our first priority.  Product quality & safety  Quality management Our commitment to quality, safety and reliability is the foundation  of everything we do. Led by our Chief Quality Officer, our Quality &  Compliance organization implements quality processes and procedures  designed to ensure that our products meet our quality standards,  which meet or"
"exceed industry requirements. Our Chief Quality Officer  provides regular updates to the Regulatory Compliance & Sustainability  Committee of the Board of Directors. Our Quality Policies and Quality Standards cover the lifecycle of  our products from R&D to patient experience, providing a common  foundation of quality expectations and helping ensure a reliable supply  of high-quality products in the markets we serve. We continue to assess  and enhance our internal policies and standards to keep"
"pace with   the changing regulatory demands for our diverse portfolio of products. In 2024, we strengthened our risk identification and management  approach through continued maturation of our Enterprise Risk  Management processes. Further across our global footprint, we  delivered more than 450 Health Authority/Notified Body Inspections  worldwide with no significant findings. We also enhanced our ways of working, embracing digital to simplify  processes and improve efficiency while reinforcing"
"our ability to address  compliance in the future. We launched novel solutions that leverage   AI and machine learning to improve our quality systems and drive  simplification to achieve better-quality results and insights for our  products and patients. In 2024, 100% of regulatory inspections at J&J sites by  worldwide health authorities did not result in a regulatory  classification.   2024 Quality Month Every October, during Quality Month, J&J shines an  enterprise-wide spotlight on Our Credo"
"commitment  that everything we do must be of high quality.”  This year's theme, Unlocking Value, highlighted the  importance of partnering across the enterprise to  leverage our combined strengths to drive efficiency  and deliver outstanding results for our patients   and customers.  Medical safety Our approach to medical safety combines safety science, epidemiology  and bioethics expertise to inform evidence- and science-based product  decisions that put patients first. The Office of the Chief"
"Medical Officer  is a global group of medical and scientific professionals working across  J&J to guide excellence in product safety and development across   our business. Informing regulatory decision-making Real-world data (RWD) are health data gathered outside a controlled  clinical trial environment from sources like electronic health records,  health insurance claims and even wearables. Translating RWD into  robust, reliable real-world evidence (RWE) has the potential to  transform the"
"practice of health care and improve health outcomes   for people around the world.  In 2024, we: •      Advanced how RWE is used to assess the safety, effectiveness and  efficiency of medical devices by leveraging insights from an RWE  study, funded by the FDA’s National Evaluation System for Health  Technology Coordinating Center and conducted in partnership with  Mercy Health and Mayo Clinic. Evidence from this test case informed  11 label expansions for 10 J&J medical devices, setting a new"
"precedent for how RWE can support regulatory decisions; •   Used local RWD to broaden clinical trial results to patients in countries  that may not have been included in or were underrepresented in the  development program, which supported a transition from conditional  to full approval in those countries and helped expand indications to  pediatric populations; •       Advanced J&J’s pharmacovigilance signal evaluation processes   by reducing RWE generation timelines from months to days using"
"a rapid-cycle analytics platform, enabling faster decision-making  across J&J’s portfolio; and •        Strengthened our capabilities and capacity to advance research  supporting pregnant and lactating populations by optimizing the  generation of evidence to inform decisions on medication use. GRI J&J24-8; SASB HC-BP-250a.5 Accountability & governance Corporate governance Tax responsibility  Information security & data privacy Ethics & compliance Respecting human rights Safeguarding animal"
"welfare Counterfeiting & illicit trade Reporting hub Responsible supply base Supplier sustainability Small business development Environmental health Our employees Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Contents Product quality & safety Quality management Medical safety  41 2024 Health for Humanity Report Advancing access to data  In 2024, J&J celebrated 10 years of partnership with the Yale University  Open Data Access (YODA) Project, that has enabled a consistent  framework for"
"independently assessing external research proposals  that request access to J&J clinical trial data. By responsibly sharing  clinical trial data, J&J aims to establish better healthcare data-sharing  practices that generate new insights to inform decisions that will help  the greatest number of people. By the end of 2024, the YODA Project  received, reviewed and approved more than 430 complete research  proposals across several disease areas, resulting in 150 publications   in prominent medical"
"journals. Supporting compassionate use We collaborate with the New York University (NYU) School of Medicine  to support decision-making for investigational medicine requests,   also known as “compassionate use” or “pre-approval access.”   The Compassionate Use Advisory Committee (CompAC), comprising  ethicists, physicians and patient representatives independently  selected by NYU, provides recommendations on pre-approval access  plans and individual requests. CompAC affirms J&J’s commitment to a"
"transparent, ethical and objective approach to reviewing requests for  access to our investigational medicines. In 2024, more than 600 patients  received access to our innovative medicines, and since 2015, nearly  10,000 patients in 92 countries received access to innovative medicines  through J&J’s Pre-Approval Access Program. Additionally, we released our updated Guide to Expanded Access, a tool to  help close educational gaps for patients, providers and caregivers about  this potential"
"treatment option. The Guide now features user-friendly key  questions and answers about this treatment pathway in 32 countries.  Counterfeiting & illicit trade Counterfeit healthcare products place people at risk of adverse events,  serious health problems and potentially death. We aim to protect  patients by safeguarding people and trust in our business against the  risks posed by illicit trade, including product counterfeiting, tampering  and illegal diversion. Tackling illicit trade requires"
"a holistic approach that includes  partnerships and close collaboration across our business and with  industry associations, academia and local, national and international  governmental bodies.  Position on Counterfeit Healthcare Products   Helping governments disrupt illicit trade As we continue to identify risks of counterfeiting, tampering with or   illicitly diverting our products, we amass significant amounts of  intelligence. At the same time, criminal enterprises are often known  to law"
"enforcement, and our information often assists with broader  enforcement actions to dismantle large and sophisticated   criminal organizations. We maintain a collaboration agreement with the U.S. Chamber of  Commerce with the goal of making criminal anti-illicit trade  investigations more efficient. Through the National Intellectual Property  Rights Coordination Center, which is part of the U.S. Department of  Homeland Security, critical intelligence is shared about intellectual  property (IP)"
"theft, fraud, trade violations and cyber intrusions by  coordinating with 25 federal and international government agencies and  private companies in combating global IP theft. We are able to leverage  this relationship to proactively share intelligence to create actionable  leads toward the prosecution of counterfeiters in the U.S. Similarly, we  have entered into agreements with law enforcement agencies in other  countries to share intelligence to dismantle large criminal enterprises."
"Throughout 2024, we provided 94 specialized training sessions  for approximately 3,100 law enforcement and government  officials around the world to help elevate expertise in identifying  counterfeit products, with the goal to prevent counterfeits from  entering borders. We maintain memberships and leadership roles in several anti-illicit  trade consortia and organizations, including the International  AntiCounterfeiting Coalition and International Trademark Association  and more. We are engaged"
"with 14 industry working groups, alliances,  organizations and agencies, and hold leadership positions   as well.   Combating counterfeit products Our Global Brand Protection team received intelligence  that J&J products—as well as products of several  other manufacturers—were being compromised in  Colombia. A criminal network was both producing  counterfeit medicines as well as recycling expired  medicines by extracting and diluting their active  content and repacking the products to appear"
"genuine.  J&J’s Global Brand Protection team worked with  other manufacturers to provide support to the  authorities to disrupt the illicit trade of oncology  products, including the seizure of more than   45 metric tons of illicit products. GRI J&J24-5; SASB HC-BP-260a.1, HC-BP-260a.3; HC-MS-430a.2  Accountability & governance Corporate governance Tax responsibility  Information security & data privacy Ethics & compliance Respecting human rights Safeguarding animal welfare Product quality &"
"safety Quality management Medical safety Reporting hub Responsible supply base Supplier sustainability Small business development Environmental health Our employees Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Contents Counterfeiting & illicit trade  42 2024 Health for Humanity Report At Johnson & Johnson, we aspire to cultivate  a supply base that truly reflects Our Credo  values, fostering a transformative impact  on patient outcomes. Our Responsibility  Standards for Suppliers are"
"essential in our  journey to not only fulfill the expectations of  our patients and customers, but also to navigate the complexities  of the global markets we engage with. Together, we can drive  positive change and make a lasting difference in the health and  well-being of individuals around the world.”  Julian Hooks,   Chief Procurement Officer, Johnson & Johnson A critically important link in our supply chain, our global supplier network  plays a vital role, enabling us to manufacture and"
"deliver essential products  and services to our patients and customers. Guided by Our Credo values,  we aim to maintain collaborative supplier relationships and work with a  broad range of suppliers.  Responsible supply base >29,000 suppliers globally  $31.7 billion total supplier spend41 “  Supplier sustainability Our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers and our Supplier  Sustainability Program (SSP) underscore our interactions with suppliers,  what we expect of them and how we support them."
"Through the SSP,  we monitor, engage and collaborate with suppliers on environmental,  social and ethical obligations. In 2024, J&J first-tier suppliers were  again monitored using a tech-enabled risk-screening tool to evaluate  risk across human rights and environmental metrics. Selected suppliers  completed an assessment by EcoVadis, a provider of sustainability  ratings for global supply chains. 1,001 J&J suppliers completed EcoVadis assessments in 2024. 497 J&J suppliers were invited to"
"participate in the CDP Supply  Chain Climate or Water programs. Suppliers setting science-based targets In 2024, we continued to engage suppliers to support our goal to have  80% of J&J suppliers by emissions covering Purchased Goods and  Services and Upstream Transportation and Distribution adopt science- based targets by 2028. We engaged approximately 460 suppliers  through meetings with supplier sustainability leaders and teams,  participation in industry working group activities and"
"collaborative  efforts with other companies (see section: Environmental health). 41  Represents spend we have control over/addressable spend, defined as products and  services that procurement teams can negotiate with suppliers to meet business goals.   For details, see our ESG Performance Data and Indices. GRI 308-1, 308-2, 414-1, 414-2 Accountability & governance Corporate governance Tax responsibility  Information security & data privacy Ethics & compliance Respecting human rights"
"Safeguarding animal welfare Product quality & safety Quality management Medical safety Counterfeiting & illicit trade Reporting hub Small business development Environmental health Our employees Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Contents Responsible supply base Supplier sustainability  43 2024 Health for Humanity Report Conducting due diligence through   the supply chain We continue to evaluate and improve our sustainability due diligence  risk management relating to our"
"supply base, with a focus on EH&S   and anti-modern slavery efforts, which, in 2024, included: •      EH&S: We conduct EH&S audits with select suppliers based on an  overall risk assessment using EcoVadis scores, types of goods and  services provided, and geographical location. Audits are conducted  using the audit protocol developed by the Pharmaceutical Supply  Chain Initiative (PSCI), with J&J completing more than 130 supplier  EH&S audits and technical visits in 2024. Beyond this, we work"
"in partnership with suppliers to build knowledge and capabilities,  including via direct discussions and connecting them with relevant  training opportunities and networks. •     Anti-modern slavery: In 2024, we developed a tool to identify  procurement categories at potentially higher risk of modern slavery  and developed an action plan for prioritized due diligence. The tool  considers risk factors such as vulnerable worker populations, working  practices and geographic location. In addition,"
"we continued our  engagement with the PSCI, Impactt and other companies to develop  a freely available map of labor migration corridors at higher risk of  recruitment fees. This innovative due diligence resource aims to  provide companies across all sectors with data on supply chain worker  recruitment fees to enable informed decisions relating to migrant  worker human rights (see section: Respecting human rights). Continuing to activate our   Onward Sustainability Program Our Onward"
"Sustainability Program helps our suppliers build capability  and take action to improve sustainability performance. In 2024, we  continued to engage more than 1,000 suppliers in the program with  updates, educational materials and tools to help them understand and  meet our expectations. During the year, we hosted webinars and live  online sessions for suppliers in the program on topics such as   science-based targets and respecting human rights. J&J has long recognized that having a supply base"
"that reflects  the wide-ranging needs of our customer base is important to the  success of our business and our communities. Our aim is to ensure  that all businesses have an opportunity to become valued partners  and grow with J&J. Our supplier selection has always been based on  merit, including the ability to meet our capacity needs. We help small  businesses better understand our needs through mentoring programs   and by connecting suppliers to external resources. In addition, we  support"
"and partner with more than 30 advocacy organizations to   help advance suppliers and social enterprises around the globe. In 2024, J&J hosted a New Jersey Supplier Summit, with more than   200 attendees across small businesses, nongovernmental organizations,  healthcare system customers and corporate peers. The event aimed to  educate local companies that are seeking to expand about healthcare  trends and how local healthcare systems, including J&J and other  manufacturers in New Jersey, are"
"meeting the challenges. Globally, J&J expanded its small business program beyond the U.S. and  Puerto Rico, to a total of 10 markets across different regions globally,  recognizing the critical role of small businesses in driving economic and  social impact. The process involved defining small- and medium-sized  enterprise (SME) criteria in each market and collaboration with local  teams to ensure seamless implementation. We have identified and fostered engagement with 1,700 SME suppliers,"
"expanding the network and providing access to innovative ideas  and new solutions for J&J. This initiative has created a network of  empowerment, collaboration and economic opportunities for small  businesses around the world.  Small business development Accountability & governance Corporate governance Tax responsibility  Information security & data privacy Ethics & compliance Respecting human rights Safeguarding animal welfare Product quality & safety Quality management Medical safety"
"Counterfeiting & illicit trade Reporting hub Responsible supply base Supplier sustainability Environmental health Our employees Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Contents Small business development   Reporting hub Additional downloads  2024 ESG Summary  2024 ESG Performance Data and Indices (Excel)  ERM CVS Health for Humanity Environmental Data Assurance Report  ERM CVS Health for Humanity Data Assurance Report  PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants and Management’s"
"Assertion  2024 CDP Questionnaire  45 2024 Health for Humanity Report  About this report Data in this annual Report, published in June 2025, cover the period  between January 1, 2024, and December 31, 2024, unless otherwise  indicated. Disclosures in this Report should be reviewed in conjunction  with our  ESG Policies & Positions . Reporting on other matters specific to  the financial performance of the Company and its subsidiaries can be  found in our 2024 Annual Report. This Report covers"
"Johnson & Johnson’s worldwide operations.  Contract manufacturers are not in scope for this Report, unless  otherwise noted. References in this Report to “Johnson & Johnson,”  “J&J,” “the Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” all refer to Johnson & Johnson  and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise stated or indicated  by context. All monetary references to dollars ($) refer to U.S. Dollars  (USD). The totals in this Report may not equal 100% due to rounding. This Report also covers some"
"activities of the Johnson & Johnson  Foundation, a registered charity and a company limited by guarantee.  The Foundation is a separate legal entity from Johnson & Johnson  and is funded solely by Johnson & Johnson. The Foundation operates  worldwide as Johnson & Johnson Foundation United States (founded  1953) and Johnson & Johnson Foundation Scotland (founded 2007).  More details on Foundation activities can be found on the  Johnson & Johnson Foundation website. This Report has been prepared"
"to align with widely used ESG standards  and frameworks, including: •    Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards (In Accordance); •  Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards:   HC-BP, HC-MS; and •       Norges Bank Investment Management and Basel Institute on  Governance’s “Measuring effectiveness of anti-corruption  programmes” reporting framework. See our ESG Performance Data and Indices for disclosures against  these standards and frameworks.  Materiality approach42 The"
"content in this Report is aligned with our Priority Topics Assessment,  which helps us identify and prioritize the ESG topics that are most  relevant to our business (see section ESG strategy). Independent review & assurance Select ESG Performance Data undergo external audit and receive  limited assurance from third-party providers. These providers include  ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS: see ERM’s  Health for Humanity Data Assurance Report & Health for Humanity"
"Environmental Data Assurance Report) and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  (PwC: see PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants and Manage ment’s  Assertion). Our J&J internal Global Audit & Assurance organization  also reviews select data for accuracy, completeness and validity. The  financial data and general information about our business in this Report  were previously audited for disclosure in our 2024 Annual Report. Acquisitions The dates and details of recent acquisitions can be found in Note 18"
"(Acquisitions and Divestitures) in our 2024 Annual Report. Shockwave Medical, acquired in 2024, is reflected only in the financial  data included in this Report. No other Shockwave data are included in  this 2024 Health for Humanity Report, unless otherwise stated. See our  2024 Annual Report for more information on Shockwave Medical. ESG data of acquired companies are integrated into reporting as  available. Environmental data and safety data of recently acquired  companies are included in the"
"Report two years after acquisition, unless  otherwise noted. ISO and OHSAS certification data are integrated three  years after acquisition. This approach allows the new acquisitions to  align their EH&S management and reporting systems to J&J standards.   Divestitures Except for injury statistics and violations or fines, EH&S data of  divested companies are excluded in the reporting year in which they  have separated. J&J’s former Consumer Health business segment is  now a separate publicly"
"traded company called Kenvue. Kenvue data are  not included in this Report and are omitted from the data in the ESG  Performance Data and Indices section of this Report, starting with the  year 2023. No prior-year data from 2022 were restated following the  Kenvue separation, unless specifically noted. Restatements Unless otherwise noted, a 5% change threshold is applied to evaluate  the significance of changes in data and determine when data is restated.  Reasons that may lead to a restatement"
"of prior period data may include  a significant change in newly published measures, new acquisitions  or divestitures, data errors or improvements in data collection  methodology over time. Data that were not disclosed in prior years are  noted as “not reported” in relevant tables throughout the Report. Cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements This Report contains “forward-looking statements” as defined in the  Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 regarding, among  other"
"things: future operating and financial performance, product  development, market position and business strategy. The reader is  cautioned not to rely on these forward-looking statements.   These statements are based on current expectations of future events.   If underlying assumptions prove inaccurate or known or unknown risks  or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from  the expectations and projections of Johnson & Johnson. A list and  descriptions of risks,"
"uncertainties and other factors can be found  in Johnson & Johnson’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal  year ended December 29, 2024, including in the sections captioned  “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and “Item  1A. Risk Factors,” and in Johnson & Johnson’s subsequent Quarterly  Reports on Form 10-Q and other filings with the Securities and  Exchange Commission. Copies of these filings are available online at www.sec.gov, www.jnj.com or on request from Johnson &"
"Johnson. Any forward-looking statement  made in this Report speaks only as of the date of this Report.  Johnson & Johnson does not undertake to update any forward-looking  statement as a result of new information or future events or  developments. Third-party trademarks used herein are trademarks of  their respective owners. Contact us We welcome your queries and feedback on this Report.   Please contact the Johnson & Johnson Office of the Corporate  Secretary at: WW-Corporate-"
"Governance@its.jnj.com.  42  Materiality as used in this Report and our Priority Topics Assessment process are  different than the definitions used in the context of filings with the U.S. Securities and  Exchange Commission and other global reporting frameworks. GRI 2-2, 2-3, 2-4, 2-5 Reporting hub ESG performance data Financial results Innovation & advancing   health for all Our employees Environmental health Accountability & governance Accountability & governance Environmental health Our"
"employees Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Contents About this report  46 2024 Health for Humanity Report  ESG performance data  Financial results  Innovation & advancing health for all Financial results (millions) 2024 2023 2022 Total sales $88,821  $85,159  $79,990  R&D expenditures $17,232  $15,085  $14,135  Net earnings $14,066  $13,326  $16,370 Sales by business segment Innovative Medicine $56,964 $54,759 $52,563 MedTech $31,857 $30,400 $27,427 Number of consecutive"
"years of dividend increases1 63 62 61 Access to medicine 2024 2023 2022 Number of products on the WHO List  of Prequalified Medicinal Products  as part of its Prequalification of  Medicines Programme 6 6 6 Number of products on the WHO List  of Prequalified Vaccines as part  of its Prequalification of Vaccine  Programme 2 2 2 List of products on the WHO List  of Prequalified Medicinal Products  as part of its Prequalification of  Medicines Programme Darunavir  (ethanolate), Tablet,  Film-coated"
"75mg Darunavir  (ethanolate), Tablet,  Film-coated 150mg Darunavir  (ethanolate), Tablet,  Film-coated 600mg Etravirine, Tablet,  Film-coated 100mg Etravirine, Tablet 25mg Mebendazole, Tablets,  Chewable 500mg Darunavir  (ethanolate), Tablet,  Film-coated 75mg Darunavir  (ethanolate), Tablet,  Film-coated 150mg Darunavir  (ethanolate), Tablet,  Film-coated 600mg Etravirine, Tablet,   Film-coated 100mg Etravirine, Tablet 25mg Mebendazole, Tablets,  Chewable 500mg Darunavir  (ethanolate), Tablet,"
"Film-coated 75mg Darunavir  (ethanolate), Tablet,  Film-coated 150mg Darunavir  (ethanolate), Tablet,  Film-coated 600mg Etravirine, Tablet,  Film-coated 100mg Etravirine, Tablet 25mg Mebendazole, Tablets,  Chewable 500mg List of products on the WHO List  of Prequalified Vaccines as part  of its Prequalification of Vaccine  Programme Mvabea (MVA-BN-Filo   [recombinant]);  Zabdeno  (Ad26.ZEBOV-GP  [recombinant])  Ebola vaccine Mvabea (MVA-BN-Filo   [recombinant]);  Zabdeno  (Ad26.ZEBOV-GP"
"[recombinant])  Ebola vaccine Mvabea (MVA-BN-Filo  [recombinant]);  Zabdeno  (Ad26.ZEBOV-GP  [recombinant])  Ebola vaccine VERMOX donations 2024 2023 2022 Number of VERMOX (mebendazole) doses donated (millions) 196.67◊ 200.00 200.72 Number of countries where VERMOX (mebendazole) doses were donated  62◊  61   61  Cumulative doses donated since the start of the initiative through the  WHO and private donations (billions) 2.6◊ 2.4 2.2 Access to tuberculosis treatment 2024 2023 2022 Annual number of"
"patients receiving access to SIRTURO   (bedaquiline molecule) 131,634◊ 210,536 133,636 1   2024 includes dividend declared in April 2025. 2023 includes dividend declared in April 2024. 2022 includes dividend  declared in April 2023. Our giving (millions) 2024 2023 2022 Total products and cash  $5,044‡ $4,337 $4,292 Products $4,588‡ $3,862 $3,925 Cash  $456‡ $475 $367 Disaster relief (millions)1 2024 2023 2022 Total allocated in support for immediate, mid- and   long-term response, as well as"
"readiness, to natural  disasters around the world $2.9 $5.3 $10.3 $ worth of Johnson & Johnson product provided to  communities impacted by natural disasters around   the world $1.5 $4.0 $23.2 Reporting hub About this report Our employees Environmental health Accountability & governance Accountability & governance Environmental health Our employees Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Contents Innovation & advancing   health for all Financial results ESG performance data  47"
"2024 Health for Humanity Report Employee retention & turnover 2024 2023 2022 Overall voluntary turnover 6.3%‡  7.4%  8.8% Voluntary turnover of high performers 2.9%‡  3.5%  4.2% Global employee activity 2024 2023 2022 Number of Global Activity Challenge participants  33,972 28,487 33,159 Number of Global Activity Challenge countries 74 69 73 Percentage increase in physical activity for   Johnson & Johnson employees  55%  77%  82% Healthiest workforce 2024 2023 2022 Percentage of employees who"
"agreed with the statement: Senior leadership supports the health & well-being of employees   in 2024  88%  88% Not reported J&J maintains working conditions that are clean, orderly and safe  92%  91% Not reported Percentage of employees have completed well-being course(s) this year  12%  11% Not reported Global employees1,2 2024 2023 2022 Total number of employees 137,925‡ 134,357  153,677  Employees by region Asia Pacific 24,445‡ 24,378  31,322  Europe, Middle East & Africa 39,023‡ 38,379"
"44,473  Latin America 27,687‡ 23,539  26,053  North America 46,770‡ 48,061  51,829  New employee hires 2024 2023 2022 Total number of new hires 18,569‡ 18,193  24,940  New employee hires by region Asia Pacific 17.2%‡  18.9%  25.2% Europe, Middle East & Africa 15.7%‡  19.1%  19.4% Latin America 38.9%‡  26.9%  22.3% North America 28.2%‡  35.2%  33.2% ◊  Metric has been assured by ERM CVS. See Health for Humanity Data Assurance Report. ‡  See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants and"
"Management’s Assertion. 1   Product donations include only what has been confirmed in Johnson & Johnson’s internal tracking system to have been donated within  the calendar year. This number does not always reflect donations by regional Johnson & Johnson operating companies to local partners. 2  Impact Ventures revised its reporting methodology in 2024 to include the total impact achieved by a portfolio company   or fund investment since inception. 3  “Patients reached” is defined as"
"individual patients, customers, or users of the healthcare products and services provided by the  companies and funds in Impact Ventures investment portfolio. Global community impact2 2024 2023 2022 Number of patients reached3 by Impact Ventures  portfolio companies & funds since date of inception 89,178,464◊ Not reported Not reported Number of health workers supported by Impact Ventures  portfolio companies & funds since date of inception 763,192◊ Not reported Not reported  Our employees"
"Training & development 2024 2023 2022 Number of leaders trained in our Enterprise Leader  Development Program   1,807   1,989   1,832  Number of U.S. and Puerto Rico employees who participated  in the tuition reimbursement program  998   1,086   1,185  Spend on employee learning & development (millions) 2024 2023 2022 Johnson & Johnson Corporate Learn technology and resourcing $39 $35 $28 Leadership training and executive coaching $40 $35 $58 Compliance and other professional skills $38 $41 $41"
"Operations, administration and e-learning $3 $6 $7 Tuition and external certifications $2 $3 $6 Total2 $121 $119 $140 Reporting hub About this report ESG performance data Financial results Innovation & advancing   health for all Environmental health Accountability & governance Accountability & governance Environmental health Our employees Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Contents Our employees  48 2024 Health for Humanity Report Average employee training hours3 2024 2023"
"2022 Overall average hours of enterprise-wide training per employee 36.9 27.3 27.0 Average hours of enterprise-wide training per employee by job category Vice Presidents 27.3 18.9 20.5 Directors and Managers 38.0 28.4 29.3 Professionals 36.7 27.4 27.3 2024 Our Credo Survey results 2024 Number of languages Our Credo Survey is made available in 36‡ Number of countries Our Credo Survey is administered in 73‡ Response rate (among all eligible employees)  94%‡ Increase in participation compared to"
"2023 (among all eligible employees) 0% Favorability rate 84%‡ Change in favorability compared to 2023 on like-to-like questions 0% Percentage who agreed with the statement: Ensures our first responsibility is to the patients, doctors and nurses, mothers and fathers, and all  others who use our products and services 92%‡ Provides an inclusive work environment where each employee is considered as an individual 85%‡ Employee safety 2024 2023 2022 Employee safety,4 global Lost workday case rate"
"(LWDC)5 0.09‡ 0.07 0.06 Total recordable injury rate (TRIR) 0.30‡ 0.28 0.23 Serious injuries and fatalities (SIF) 0‡ 1 0 Number of fatalities 0‡ 0 0 Employee safety4 by region Lost workday case rate (LWDC)5 Asia Pacific 0.04‡ 0.09 0.08 Europe, Middle East & Africa 0.08‡ 0.07 0.05 Latin America 0.06‡ 0.04 0.01 North America 0.11‡ 0.07 0.06 Total recordable injury rate (TRIR) Asia Pacific 0.16‡ 0.21 0.15 Europe, Middle East & Africa 0.24‡ 0.27 0.20 Latin America 0.10‡ 0.07 0.21 North America 0.39‡"
"0.33 0.29 Serious injuries and fatalities (SIF) Asia Pacific 0‡ 0 0 Europe, Middle East & Africa 0‡ 0 0 Latin America 0‡ 0 0 North America 0‡ 1 0 Road safety6 2024 2023 2022 Crashes per million miles (CPMM) rate 4.92 5.11 5.61 Injuries per million miles (IPMM) rate 0.07 0.05 0.05 ‡  See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants and Management’s Assertion. 1   “Employee” is defined as an individual working full-time or part-time, excluding fixed-term employees, interns and co-ops. Employee  data"
"may not include full population from more recently acquired companies, and individuals on long-term disability are excluded.  Contingent workers, contractors and subcontractors are also excluded. Shockwave Medical headcount is excluded from Global  Employee data, as well as other human capital-related disclosures. 2  2022 and 2023 spend totals have been restated to include amounts for the new J&J Corporate Learn Technology & Resourcing   spend category. 3  Average hours of enterprise-wide"
"training data represents available data from three of J&J’s primary learning management systems.  We are working to include training data from additional sources available in future. Where training durations were not included, we  applied estimates based on training type. 4  LWDC rate, TRIR, SIF rate and fatalities are calculated for Johnson & Johnson employees and contingent workers. Contingent workers  (i.e., workers supplied by third-party agencies that are the worker’s employer of record)"
"are intended to supplement or temporarily  replace existing workforce and are directly supervised by a J&J employee. 5  “Lost days” are calendar days counted beginning the day after an incident has taken place. 6  CPMM and IPMM rates are based on collected road safety data. Rate calculation methodology uses both actual and estimated data  on miles driven. We collect road safety data on employees who drive Company-owned or -leased and personally owned vehicles driven  on Company business."
"Employees in the latter category are those who: 1) drive for Company business as a “regular part“ of their job  duties, and 2) receive an allowance to purchase their own vehicle and/or are reimbursed for vehicle expenses such as fuel, maintenance,  insurance and other miscellaneous charges associated with vehicle upkeep. Road safety data are integrated in the first year after  acquisition, where available, and two years after acquisition at the latest. Reporting hub About this report ESG"
"performance data Financial results Innovation & advancing   health for all Environmental health Accountability & governance Accountability & governance Environmental health Our employees Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Contents Our employees  49 2024 Health for Humanity Report  Environmental health Energy use1 2024 2023 2022 Total energy use (TJ)  8,992  8,920  8,973 From renewable sources  4,309  4,162  3,509 From non-renewable sources  4,683  4,758  5,464 Energy intensity"
"(TJ/billion $)2  101  105  112 Percentage change in energy intensity compared to 2021 baseline (TJ/billion $)  (13)%  (10)%  (3)% Percent renewable electricity by region3 North America 100%◊  100%  84% Europe 100%◊  100%  100% Global 88%◊  87%  75% Purchased energy use by type (TJ)1 Electricity  4,545  4,508  4,399 Natural gas  3,084  3,210  3,328 Diesel  372  353  358 Direct heating/cooling  208  208  211 Propane  48  52  54 Biogas  17  19  3 Fuel oil  5  21  12 Total purchased energy  8,279"
"8,372  8,365 On-site generated energy use by type (TJ)1 Co-generation 437 328 392 Wind 130 139 132 Solar PV 68 61 66 Geothermal 72 15 15 Fuel cell 0 0 0 Biomass 5 5 3 Total on-site generated energy4 713 548 608 On-site clean/renewable energy capacity by type Solar PV  35%   28%   29%  Co-generation   19%  23%  23% Wind   22%  22%  22% Geothermal  24%  24%  24% Biomass   0%  2%  2% Fuel cell  0%  0%  0% On-site clean/renewable energy technology capacity (MW) 71 70 71 Greenhouse gas (GHG)"
"emissions5 2024 2023 2022 Scope 1 GHG emissions, total (MT CO2e)5 314,690◊ 326,137  332,686 Scope 1 GHG emissions by source (MT CO2e)5 Facilities1  184,604  197,115  199,018 Fleet  113,949  112,359  112,027 Refrigerants1  6,883  6,198  14,112 Aviation  9,255  10,465  7,529 Scope 2 GHG emissions, facilities (MT CO2e)1, 5 Location-based 460,864◊  462,769  452,567 Market-based 116,236◊  130,734  182,007 Scope 1 & Scope 2 GHG emissions, total (MT CO2e)5 430,926  456,871  514,693 GHG emissions"
"intensity (Scope 1 & Scope 2) by revenue   (MT CO2e/million $) 5 5 6 Percentage decrease in GHG emissions intensity (Scope 1 & Scope 2)  by revenue (MT CO2e/million $) compared to 2021 baseline  34%  27%  13% Total offsets applied to reporting year 0 0 478 Scope 3 GHG emissions by source (MT CO2e)13 Purchased goods and services6 4,779,516◊ 4,922,171  4,898,185 Capital goods6 201,353◊ 168,604  169,738 Fuel- and energy-related activities7 154,174◊ 187,356  175,707 Upstream transportation and"
"distribution6 606,390◊ 700,249  823,269 Waste generated in operations8 5,059◊  5,267  5,683 Business travel6, 9  479,454◊  416,011   277,445 Employee commuting10 173,891◊ 164,482  160,093 Upstream leased assets11 22,450◊ 21,837  24,372 Use of sold products (direct)12 116,567◊ 111,399  108,258 End-of-life treatment of sold products12 58,279◊ 58,784  57,342 Reporting hub About this report ESG performance data Financial results Innovation & advancing   health for all Our employees Accountability &"
"governance Accountability & governance Environmental health Our employees Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Contents Environmental health  50 2024 Health for Humanity Report Water use (million m3)15 2024 2023 2022 Total water withdrawn  7.43◊ 7.30 11.11 Total water consumed 1.60◊ 1.53 3.93 Total water recycled and reused 0.35◊ 0.38 0.83 Total water discharge 5.83◊ 5.77 7.18 Percentage of water withdrawn in regions of high or extremely  high baseline water stress18 42%  44%"
"40% Percentage of water consumed in regions of high or extremely high  baseline water stress18 43%  57%  49% Water withdrawn by source  Municipal  5.50   5.77   8.13  Groundwater  1.55   1.22   2.70  Gray water  0.03   0.01   —  Other  0.08   0.08   0.08  Rainwater  0.28   0.23   0.18  Surface water  0.00   0.00   0.01  Water discharge by destination Municipal sewers 3.97  4.01   4.83  Surface water 1.21  1.23   1.80  CO2 Capital Relief Program14 2024 2023 2022 Amount spent on completed &"
"ongoing projects (annual) (millions)  $30 $16 $15 Average Internal Rate of Return (IRR) (annual)  17%  21%  18% Projected energy cost savings (annual) (millions) $6 $7 $7 Air emissions by source (MT)15 2024 2023 2022 Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)16 32.9◊  43.5  45.4 Volatile organic compounds (VOC)16 271.0◊  302.7  339.1 Particulate matter (PM)17 36.1◊  27.3  65.1 Refrigerants  3.6◊  3.6  10.0 Ozone-depleting substances 0.0◊  0.1  3.3 Sulfur oxides (SOx)1 39◊ 39 57 Mono-nitrogen oxides (NOx)1"
"28◊ 28 41 Irrigation 0.29  0.24   0.28  Other 0.06  0.05   0.04  Ocean 0.30  0.25   0.22  Operational waste (MT)15 2024 2023 2022 Total waste generated19 142,516◊  121,068  198,270 Hazardous waste 64,618◊  57,259  61,147 Non-hazardous waste 77,898◊  63,809  137,123 Percentage of waste diverted from disposal  88%  83%  85% Percentage of waste directed to disposal  12%  17%  15% Waste diverted from disposal Hazardous waste Recycled  26,613   20,390   27,038  Energy recovery  12,144   11,198"
"13,611  Reused  16,928   15,850   14,956  Non-hazardous waste Recycled  46,198   31,892   81,775  Energy recovery  13,537   11,203   19,587  Reused  9,651   9,977   12,389  Total waste diverted from disposal 125,070◊ 100,510 169,355 Waste directed to disposal Hazardous waste Landfilled  967   839   1,137  Incinerated  2,980   2,553   3,478  Bio/chemical treatment  4,974   6,415   896  Other  11   14   32  Non-hazardous waste Landfilled  5,329   5,958   7,856  Incinerated  624   646   2,221"
"Bio/chemical treatment  2,553   4,101   11,864  Other  7   32   1,431  Total waste directed to disposal 17,446◊ 20,558 28,915 Reporting hub About this report ESG performance data Financial results Innovation & advancing   health for all Our employees Accountability & governance Accountability & governance Environmental health Our employees Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Contents Environmental health  51 2024 Health for Humanity Report EH&S compliance & certifications 2024"
"2023 2022 Number of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to ISO 1400120 58‡ 57 87 Percentage of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to ISO 1400120, 21 97%‡  89%  91% Number of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to ISO 4500120 16‡ 14 20 Percentage of manufacturing and R&D sites certified to ISO 4500120, 21 25%‡  21%  20% Number of environmental non-compliances22, 23 63‡ 87 167 Fines paid for environmental non-compliances (thousands)23 $33.2‡ $7.9 $11.7 LEED buildings24 2024 2023 2022 Number"
"of Johnson & Johnson buildings that have been  LEED-certified (total)25 71 62 68 Percentage of Johnson & Johnson built space that has been  LEED-certified (total)25  21.4%  19.2%  17.0% Product end-of-life (millions) 2024 2023 2022 Number of medical devices collected in U.S.   0.73   0.71   0.78  Number of medical devices reprocessed in U.S.  0.30   0.29   0.32  ◊    Metric has been assured by ERM CVS. See Health for Humanity Environmental Data Assurance Report. ‡    See PwC’s Report of"
"Independent Accountants and Management’s Assertion.  1    Includes site-specific data from all Johnson & Johnson owned sites, all manufacturing and R&D sites and leased administrative or  warehouse sites over 50,000 sq ft, where Johnson & Johnson has operational control, unless otherwise noted. 2   Energy intensity ratio includes all purchased and on-site generated energy. 3   This data is the percentage of electricity used by Johnson & Johnson that is generated from renewable sources,"
"including on-site  and off-site renewable systems, like direct PPAs, virtual PPAs, Utility Green Tariffs and Energy Attribute Certificates. Europe includes  Belgium, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the UK. Reporting for the U.S.  does not include Puerto Rico. 4   Values have been rounded to the nearest whole number. Due to rounding, the numbers presented do not add up precisely to the totals  provided, and percentages may not"
"precisely reflect the absolute figures. 5   In accordance with guidance from the World Resources Institute (WRI) Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, 2022 and  2023 values are restated to reflect newly released electricity grid emission factors as well as the addition or removal of acquisitions  and divestitures. This threshold for restatement deviates from the one included in the About This Report section. Gases covered  in these calculations include CO2, CH4, N2O and HFCs."
"Perfluorinated chemicals, sulfur hexafluoride and nitrogen trifluoride do not  result from our operations. Biogenic CO2 emissions in 2024 were 1,316 MT CO2. Electricity emission factors are obtained from the  International Energy Agency’s CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion Report; the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA's) eGRID  publication for location-based Scope 2 reporting, and from utility companies and residual emission factor sources, where available,  for market-based Scope 2"
"reporting. Fuel emission factors are obtained from the EPA Climate Leadership publication. Global Warming  Potentials are obtained from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Sixth Assessment Report. The chosen consolidation  approach for emissions is operational control. 6   Emissions were calculated using Company spend or budgeted spend in the reporting year paired with appropriate economic input/ output (IO) emission factors from the Comprehensive Environmental Data Archive (CEDA)"
"2024 dataset. Emissions for these  categories do not include Abiomed data. Year-over-year increase in Capital Goods emissions is due to both increased spend in this  category as well as increase in CEDA 2024 emission factors for certain relevant subcategories compared to the CEDA Global 4.01  dataset. Year-over-year decrease in Upstream Transportation & Distribution Emissions is due to decrease in CEDA 2024 emission  factors relevant to this category compared to the CEDA Global 4.01 dataset."
"7     Emissions from fuel- and energy-related activities were calculated for emissions from transmission and distribution (T&D) losses from  purchased electricity, well-to-tank (WTT) emissions from purchased electricity, WTT emissions from T&D losses and WTT emissions  from purchased fuels. Emissions were calculated using International Energy Agency (IEA 2024) WTT factors for electricity and the  Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA 2024) WTT emission factors for fuels."
"Year-over-year decrease is due to  change in emission factor source specifically for WTT Electric Power emissions from the latest available UK DEFRA Emission Factors  for this source (2021) to IEA 2024 Emission Factors, as UK DEFRA no longer publishes international WTT Electric Power emission  factors. The calculation now also includes fuel consumption from J&J’s owned and leased vehicles. Previously, only fuel consumption  from facilities within J&J's reporting boundary and aviation fleet were"
"included.  8    Emissions from Waste Generated in Operations were calculated for both non-hazardous and hazardous waste from manufacturing and  R&D operations using Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs' (DEFRA 2021 & 2024) emissions factors for waste.  9    Emissions from Business Travel are reported on a Well-to-Wheel (WTW) basis. Business travel emissions from personal vehicle travel  reflect CO2 only. Emissions from hotel stays are not included, in alignment with GHG Protocol"
"required emissions for this category  (optional emission sources have been excluded). 2022 and 2023 data have been restated to reflect corrections to the calculation  methodology. 10   Emissions from Employee Commuting were calculated using distance data based on employee home and work location zip codes.  Weighted emission factors were calculated per region based on modes of commuting from a 2024 survey of a sample of Johnson &  Johnson employees in all regions. Emissions are reported on a WTW"
"basis. Incremental emissions from employee remote work are not  included, in alignment with GHG Protocol required emissions for this category (optional emission sources have been excluded). 11     Emissions from Upstream Leased Assets were calculated by estimating the fuel and electricity use of leased sites that are not  included in J&J's Scope 1 & 2 boundary, based on their region, building type, and square footage. 12   Emissions from the Use of Sold Products and the End-of-Life Treatment"
"of Sold Products were calculated using sales volumes for  all Johnson & Johnson products combined with lifecycle assessment (LCA) models where sales volumes could be obtained. Due to  the size of our product portfolio, LCA’s were not performed for every Johnson & Johnson product, so products were placed into  LCA categories and a representative product LCA was applied. Indirect use phase emissions are not included, in alignment with GHG  Protocol required emissions for this category (optional"
"emission sources have been excluded). Emissions for these categories do not  include Abiomed data. 13   Emissions from the Processing of Sold Products, Downstream Leased Assets, Franchises, and Investments are not relevant to  Johnson & Johnson operations. Emissions from Downstream Transportation and Distribution are not reported due to a level of  uncertainty identified with the calculation methodology. J&J continues to evaluate possible data sources. 14   The estimated cost savings of the"
"completed and ongoing projects are based on engineering estimates related to avoidance of  energy consumption at the time the projects are approved through an internal process. 15   Data related to Air emissions, Water use and Waste includes site-specific data from all Johnson & Johnson manufacturing and R&D  sites unless otherwise noted. 16   HAP and VOC emissions decreased primarily because of operational efficiencies and installation of additional emission control device. 17   PM emissions"
"increased primarily because of a one-time event involving the use of emergency generators to provide power while site  utilities were being upgraded. 18   The percentages are calculated by dividing the amount of water withdrawn and consumed at sites located in regions with high or  extremely high baseline water stress (as defined by World Resources Institute Aqueduct) by the total amount of water withdrawn and  consumed. Percentages of water withdrawn and consumed in regions with high or"
"extremely high baseline water stress decreased due  to a combination of water efficiency projects, changes in production volumes and improved metering of water discharges. 19   Total waste generation increased mainly because of production increases and construction projects, but the percentage of total  waste diverted from disposal increased. 20  Certified to ISO 14001 or ISO 45001 means the site has received an external certification that is valid as of December 31, 2024. 21   The"
"denominator of total manufacturing and R&D sites excludes small R&D and manufacturing sites (defined as having less than   50 employees) and newly acquired sites (i.e., owned less than three years as of December 31, 2024) and sites that received a formal  variance from leadership based on specific circumstances. 22  Environmental non-compliances represent instances of non-compliance with environmental regulatory requirements or laws that  were either (i) self-reported to authorities in the"
"reporting year or (ii) identified by authorities and the non-compliance occurred in the  reporting year. The authorities include regional, national, state/country/province and local/city regulatory agencies. 23  Environmental non-compliances and fines paid include those paid in the reporting year and excludes newly acquired sites (i.e., owned  less than two years as of December 31, 2024) or fines assessed and/or under negotiation that were not paid as of December 31, 2024. 24  2023 and 2024"
"data exclude previously certified LEED buildings that were included in the Consumer Health separation. 25  Totals include 4 BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Methodology) certified sites. LEED  certifications include multiple certification types: Building Design and Construction, Interior Design and Construction, and Building  Operations and Maintenance. Reporting hub About this report ESG performance data Financial results Innovation & advancing   health for all"
"Our employees Accountability & governance Accountability & governance Environmental health Our employees Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Contents Environmental health  52 2024 Health for Humanity Report  Accountability & governance Board of Directors' composition1 2024 2023 2022 Number of Directors 11 13 12 Number of Independent Directors 10 12 11 Percentage of Independent Directors   91%  92%  92% Independent Lead Director Yes Yes Yes Independent Audit Committee Yes Yes"
"Yes Independent Compensation & Benefits Committee Yes Yes Yes Independent Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee Yes Yes Yes Independent Regulatory & Sustainability Compliance Committee Yes Yes Yes Independent Science & Technology Committee Yes Yes Yes Number of regular and special meetings held by the Board of Directors 14 15 15 Tax contribution (billions)2 2024 2023 2022 Payroll & social insurance taxes borne $1.5‡ $1.5 $1.6 Payroll & social insurance taxes collected $4.8‡ $4.6 $4.9"
"Sales/use & other taxes borne $0.7‡ $0.8 $0.9 Sales/use & other taxes collected $1.3‡ $1.2 $1.1 Corporate income tax $6.7‡ $8.3 $5.2 Total taxes borne $8.9‡ $10.6 $7.7 Total taxes collected $6.1‡ $5.8 $6.1 Total tax contribution $15.0‡ $16.4 $13.8 Cybersecurity & data privacy 2024 2023 2022 Percentage of employees who completed Information   Security Training  91%  93%  95% Code of Business Conduct (CBC) compliance 2024 2023 2022 Percentage of senior leaders certified the compliance of their"
"organizations with the CBC3  100%  100%  100% Number of warning letters or untitled letters issued by OPDP or APLB  in the U.S.4 0 0 0 Health Care Compliance (HCC) training 2024 2023 2022 Number of relevant Johnson & Johnson employees who  completed HCC training that includes anti-corruption section   94,000   83,000   105,000  Percentage of sales and marketing employees who  completed HCC training  97%   96%   97%  Inquiries & complaints as recorded with Our Credo Integrity  Line by category5"
"2024 2023 2022 Human Resources-related 72%‡  74%  71% Business integrity-related 12%‡  12%  11% Financial-related 7%‡  5%  4% Other (privacy, information security, general security, EH&S, etc.) 4%‡  4%  6% General information questions 2%‡  2%  3% Product quality- and patient safety-related 2%‡  2%  3% Human rights-related 1%‡  1%  1% Compliance-related allegations investigated through   Triage Committee6 2024 2023 2022 Number of compliance-related allegations investigated 949‡ 1,016 749"
"Collective bargaining agreements7 2024 2023 2022 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 31%‡  30%  30% Animal welfare 2024 2023 2022 Number of facilities with animals with veterinary oversight 5 7 6 Number of facilities with animals accredited by AAALAC International8 5 6 6 Percentage of facilities with animals that are accredited by  AAALAC International8  100%   100%   100%  Percentage of research performed in rodents, fish or frogs when  there are no non-animal"
"alternatives available  97%   96%   96%  Reporting hub About this report ESG performance data Financial results Innovation & advancing   health for all Our employees Environmental health Accountability & governance Environmental health Our employees Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Contents Accountability & governance  53 2024 Health for Humanity Report Anti-counterfeiting13 2024 2023 2022 Number of anti-counterfeiting best practices trainings delivered to  law enforcement"
"agents (Customs, Border Protection, etc.) 94 88 104  Product quality indicators 2024 2023 2022 Number of regulatory inspections of Johnson & Johnson sites by  worldwide health authorities9 451‡ 395 411 Percentage of regulatory inspections that did not result in a  regulatory classification10 100%‡  100%  100% Number of FDA inspections of Johnson & Johnson sites9,11 24‡ 15 8 Number of Form 483's issued 8‡ 5 3 Number of FDA warning letters issued 0‡ 1 0 Number of independent audits of Johnson &"
"Johnson sites to ensure  compliance with Johnson & Johnson Quality Policy & Standards 132‡ 132 126 Number of independent audits of external manufacturing sites to ensure  compliance with Johnson & Johnson Quality Policy & Standards 185‡ 221 211 FDA Recall Removals12 FDA Class I Recall Removals Innovative Medicine 0‡ 0 0 MedTech  3‡ 1 0 FDA Class II Recall Removals Innovative Medicine 0‡ 0 0 MedTech  13‡ 10 11 Supply base overview 2024 2023 2022 Number of Johnson & Johnson suppliers  29,272"
"38,544   46,064  Total Johnson & Johnson supplier spend (billions)14 $31.7 $31.2 $40.1 Supplier spend contracted by region14 Asia Pacific  6%  6%  10% Europe, Middle East & Africa  35%  34%  32% Latin America  2%  2%  3% North America  58%  58%  56% Supplier spend contracted by business segment14 Innovative Medicine  48%  47%  34% MedTech  38%  38%  30% Enterprise  14%  15%  13% Supplier engagement 2024 2023 2022 Number of suppliers invited to participate in CDP Supply Chain  Climate program 409"
"446 392 Percentage participated  77%  74%  85% Number of suppliers invited to participate in CDP Supply Chain  Water program 88 38 150 Percentage participated  91%  68%  74% Supplier EcoVadis assessments EcoVadis assessments completed 1,001 989 1,210 Supplier risk ranking based on EcoVadis assessments Low risk 879 824 924 Medium risk 113 150 269 High risk 9 15 17 Reporting hub About this report ESG performance data Financial results Innovation & advancing   health for all Our employees"
"Environmental health Accountability & governance Environmental health Our employees Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Contents Accountability & governance  54 2024 Health for Humanity Report ◊   Metric has been assured by ERM CVS. See Health for Humanity Data Assurance Report. ‡   See PwC’s Report of Independent Accountants and Management’s Assertion. 1     Figures as of March 2025. 2   The tax information contained in this section is intended to provide the reader with"
"an overview of all taxes contributed by Johnson &  Johnson, and not just income taxes. It should be read in conjunction with the Company’s tax information filed with the U.S. Securities  and Exchange Commission (SEC), including in the most recently filed Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Annual Report on Form 10-K.  This tax information is supplemental to, and not a substitute for, the information reported in the Company’s SEC filings. 3   Certifiers include senior leaders at VP2 level and"
"above and executives of recently acquired companies. 4   OPDP: Office of Prescription Drug Promotion, APLB: Advertising and Promotional Labeling Branch of the FDA Center for Biologics  Evaluation and Research. 5   Johnson & Johnson Triage Committee and case investigators have the ability to change the issue type of the cases upon receipt in   Our Credo Integrity Line. This occurred for no more than 14% in 2024. 6   Shockwave Medical data is included. 7    Fixed-term employees subject to a"
"local CBA are included in this count. For the full definition of 'employee', please see the footnote  associated with the Global employees metric on page 48. 8   In 2016, the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International changed its name to   AAALAC International. 9   Includes GCP, GLP, GMP and PV inspections. 10  Regulatory Classification: An action or communication alleging violations of a law or regulation including notices of deficiencies in  pending"
"submissions, notice of inquiry of concerns/deficiencies regarding marketed product, receipt of official correspondence  indicating potential imminent regulatory action (such as Warning letter, Untitled letter, Letter of Admonition, Non-Issuance or  withdrawal of GxP or QMS certificate), notice of product seizure, prohibition or restriction of import or export. 11      Included in total regulatory inspections. 12   FDA Recall Removal: Recall where impacted product in the market is"
"removed/returned; Recall Removal quantities are based on the  calendar year that the recall was reported in the FDA Enforcement Report. 13   All Johnson & Johnson employees complete Code of Business Conduct training and are instructed how to proceed if they become  aware of a product complaint or adverse event. Brand protection awareness is included in mandatory trainings to raise understanding  and awareness of illicit trade issues among all employees. Supplemental brand protection training is"
"also available to stakeholders and  is reflected in the number above. 14   Represents spend we have control over/addressable spend, defined as products and services that procurement teams can negotiate  with suppliers to meet business goals. Values have been rounded. Due to rounding, the numbers presented do not add up precisely to  the totals provided, and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures. 15   All indicators represent spend Johnson & Johnson has control over"
"addressable spend, defined as products and services that  procurement teams can negotiate with suppliers to meet business goals. 16   Small Business Spend is defined as spend with a U.S.-based small business enterprise that provides goods and/or services to a  company. Supplier determines business size based upon the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) size standards. 17    A technical visit is a follow-up visit to the initial audit. 18   A critical finding is defined as evidence of very"
"high risk to human life or potential catastrophic impact to facility, community or  environment. We expect suppliers and potential suppliers to address critical findings immediately. Small supplier spend (millions)15,16 2024 2023 2022 Total small business spend in the U.S. $2,743 $2,553 $2,927 Percentage of total supplier spend attributable to small suppliers  15.3%  14.4%  13.4% Global small supplier spend (millions)15 2024 2023 2022 Social enterprise spend outside the U.S. $5.80  $9.19  Not"
"reported Supplier audits 2024 2023 2022 Supplier Environment, Health and Safety (EH&S)  EH&S audits and technical visits completed17 136 152 160 EH&S audits and technical visits by region Asia Pacific 115 125 121 Europe, Middle East & Africa 6 13 8 Latin America 5 6 17 North America 10 8 14 Number of suppliers identified as high risk for non-conformance  to Johnson & Johnson Responsibility Standards for Suppliers 5 4 15 Number of critical EH&S findings identified as a result   of EH&S audits18 3"
"1 9 Safety-related findings 1 1 5 Environmental-related findings 2 0 4 Reporting hub About this report ESG performance data Financial results Innovation & advancing   health for all Our employees Environmental health Accountability & governance Environmental health Our employees Our approach Innovation and advancing  health for all Contents Accountability & governance  Contact us: Johnson & Johnson Office of the Corporate Secretary WW-Corporate-Governance@its.jnj.com  One Johnson & Johnson Plaza"
"New Brunswick, New Jersey 08933  healthforhumanityreport.jnj.com"
