"2024 Sustainability Report Contents Introduction 5 Governance 42 Message from our Chairman 6 Oversight and management of Environmental, Social and Governance related matters 43 Company at a glance 7 Business ethics 44 Executive overview 8 Accountability, transparency and engagement 46 Our $2.5T Sustainable Development Target 9 Risk management 49 Supporting secure and affordable energy and Managing climate risks 50 a transition to a low-carbon economy 14 Managing nature and social risks 57"
"Managing financial crime and corruption risks 58 Facilitating capital and creating investment solutions 15 Cybersecurity and data privacy 58 Supporting a transition to an energy-secure, low-carbon economy 16 Managing our operational footprint 18 Our climate-related metrics and targets 22 Appendices 60 Restricted activities, and client activities and locations subject to enhanced review 61 Supporting stronger communities, customers Absolute financed and facilitated emissions: PCAF-aligned metrics"
"63 and employees 28 2024 Employer Information Report (EEO-1) 65 List of acronyms 66 Fueling business growth and entrepreneurship 29 Strengthening financial health and wealth creation 31 Catalyzing community development 33 Human capital 35 Notes A note on our targets A note on our business We set targets using our own independent assessment of what we determine is reasonable and We provide financial services for individuals and industries across geographies — regardless of political or religious"
"viewpoints. We deal in facts and don’t describe our policies, will serve the best interest of our business and our procedures or progress differently based on who’s asking. Our ambition is to work with shareholders, clients, customers and communities around the world to fulfill banking’s clients. These targets include our portfolio-level essential purpose of helping people, businesses of all sizes and vital institutions — like schools, hospitals and governments — achieve their goals. carbon"
"intensity targets and our $2.5 trillion Sustainable Development Target, among others. Our targets indicate our intent to capture sustainability-related opportunities, not to restrict our financing. We have consistently noted that our We make independent business decisions for the Firm. We don’t “boycott” or discriminate. We manage risk. targets are subject to other prerequisites and critical We make business decisions to advance the long-term We support clients around the globe and in every"
"state Managing risk is critical to the long-term success of our considerations, both within and outside our control, interests of the Firm and its shareholders, including in the U.S., across industries, religions and political business and required by our regulators. We make risk- that may affect our ability to meet them. serving our clients, supporting our employees and affiliations. We proudly serve 84.4 million consumer based assessments, including legal, credit, market, These include the"
"necessity of technological helping our communities. We work with a broad array of customers in the U.S., 7.0 million small businesses and reputational and regulatory, to drive decisions and advance advancements; data quality and availability; the organizations that advance those interests, even if we hundreds of thousands of companies in critical the interests of our constituents, while also considering evolution of consumer behavior and demand; the don’t support every position taken by those"
"groups. economic sectors. We do not make decisions based commercial factors such as risks relative to opportunities. business decisions of our clients, who are responsive Firm decisions are always made independently and on political agendas. to their own stakeholders; the need for thoughtful based on business principles. public policies; the potential impact of legal and regulatory obligations; market conditions; climate science; commercial considerations; and the challenge of balancing short-"
"term targets with the We compete. We believe in free enterprise. We value engagement. need to facilitate an orderly transition and energy Our ability to compete, in both established and new Markets and economies of all sizes benefit when free We believe the best answers reside in engagement and security and affordability. We expect that progress markets, is critical to the long-term success of our and fair enterprise thrives — creating innovation, discourse. When policymakers seek input to"
"tackle toward our targets will reflect these external business. We decide where and how we choose to competition and maximizing value for shareholders, challenges, we want to help. We know that our success variables and market forces. As one example, rising compete by assessing risk and opportunity, not to clients, customers and communities. Government requires working closely with government and stakeholders energy demand from data centers driven by artificial further political agendas."
"intervention in free market principles, or attempting to on sound public policy that grows the economy and lifts up intelligence is expected to influence our ability to use businesses to advance a political agenda, sets a communities. Throughout our history, we have engaged with meet our Electric Power target in the future. dangerous precedent. officials from all parties to address the world’s most pressing We aim for our targets to be aligned with how we needs, and we look forward to continuing"
"to do so. independently manage our businesses, which continue to grow, evolve and change. In light of this, we plan to continue to evaluate our sustainability- related targets and may make adjustments we deem appropriate, including our approach to them and how we report on them, especially where the activities being tracked are part of our normal course of business. Disclaimers The information provided in this report reflects JPMorganChase’s approach to environmental-, social- and climate-"
"(“ESG”) related matters as at the date of this report and is subject to change without notice. We do not undertake to update any such information in this report. Any references to “sustainable investing”, “sustainable investments”, “ESG” or similar terms in this report are intended as references to the internally defined criteria of the Firm or our businesses only, as applicable, and not to any jurisdiction-specific legal or regulatory definition. Our approach to inclusion of disclosures in this"
"report is informed by the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) and relevant Sector Standards, the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (“SASB”) reporting standards, as well as the Task Force on Climate- related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”) recommendations and is different from disclosures included in mandatory regulatory reporting, including under Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) regulations. While this report describes events, including potential future events, that may be"
"significant, any significance does not necessarily equate to the level of materiality of disclosures required under law, including U.S. federal securities law. This report is not intended to, nor can it be relied on, to create legal relationships, rights or obligations. This report is intended to highlight some of the work of JPMorganChase in the areas of environmental, social and governance; it is not comprehensive or necessarily representative of all of our activities in those areas. As"
"outlined in our public reporting, JPMorganChase continues to work with and has exposure to clients and organizations across industries, including Oil & Gas, Utilities, Metals & Mining, Transportation and Chemicals & Plastics. This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to, among other things, our goals, targets, aspirations, approaches and objectives, and are based on the current beliefs and"
"expectations of JPMorganChase’s management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond JPMorganChase’s control. Expected results or actions may differ from, and JPMorganChase makes no guarantee that it will meet or follow, the anticipated goals, targets and approaches set forth in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause JPMorganChase’s actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements include the"
"necessity of technological advancements; data quality and availability; the evolution of consumer behavior and demand; the business decisions of our clients, who are responsive to their own stakeholders; the need for thoughtful public policies; the potential impact of legal and regulatory obligations and considerations; market conditions; and the challenge of balancing short-term targets with the need to facilitate an orderly transition and energy security and affordability. Additional factors"
"can be found in JPMorganChase’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K filed with the SEC. Those reports are available on JPMorganChase’s website (https://jpmorganchaseco. gcs-web.com/ir/sec-other-filings/overview) and on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website (https://www.sec.gov/). JPMorganChase does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements. This report is for informational purposes only and does not constitute"
"investment, financial, economic, or accounting advice or recommendations for any investment product or strategy. This report does not include all applicable terms or issues and is not intended as an offer or solicitation for the purchase or sale of any financial instrument or as an official confirmation of any transaction. Any and all transactions (including potential transactions) presented herein are for illustration purposes only. This material does not and should not be deemed to constitute"
"an advertisement or marketing of the Firm’s products and/or services or an advertisement to the public. No reports, documents or websites that are cited or referred to in this document shall be deemed to form any part of this report. Information contained in this report that has been obtained from third-party sources, including those publicly available, is believed to be reliable, but no representation or warranty is made by JPMorganChase as to the quality, completeness, accuracy, fitness for a"
"particular purpose or non-infringement of such information. Sources of third-party information referred to herein retain all rights with respect to such data and use of such data by JPMorganChase herein shall not be deemed to grant a license to any third party. The use of any third-party trademarks or brand names is for informational purposes only and does not imply an endorsement by JPMorganChase or that such trademark owner has authorized JPMorganChase to promote its products or services."
"Introduction Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Message from our Chairman | Company at a glance | Executive overview | Our $2.5T Sustainable Development Target 2024 Sustainability Report 5 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees"
"Governance Risk management Appendices Message from our Chairman Dear Stakeholders, In today’s complex and interconnected world, JPMorganChase remains steadfast in our commitment to operational excellence and sustainable growth, as evidenced by our fortress balance sheet and community investments. Our 2024 Sustainability Report provides a summary of our strategies and achievements, combining insights from our Climate Report with updates on how we invest in communities, take care of employees,"
"mitigate risks, manage our environmental impact and how we work with our clients to support their goals. This report seeks to provide stakeholders with a broader perspective on our strategies and achievements. Highlights in the report include our progress toward our $2.5 trillion Sustainable Development Target, encompassing Green, Development Finance and Community Development objectives. As a leading global energy financier, we recognize the interconnectedness of economic growth, energy"
"security, affordability and sustainability. We see significant opportunities in sustainable and low-carbon technologies and businesses, providing them with capital and advice to help them scale for the future. In 2024, we continued to manage the energy and carbon footprint of our operations, including constructing and operating more sustainable buildings, such as our new headquarters. We remain champions of banking’s essential role in communities, expanding our business in states like Iowa and"
"Alabama. Our broader effort is to serve 50% of the population in each of the 48 contiguous states within an accessible drive time. We support individuals and companies by opening branches, financing businesses, building affordable housing and supporting local schools and hospitals, working with local government and community leaders who share common goals. I am immensely proud of our more than 317,000 employees who act with integrity and purpose, connecting those we serve with products and"
"services that help them achieve their goals. We are committed to attracting and retaining a talented workforce that represents the 100 markets we serve globally. Please read this year’s integrated Sustainability Report to learn more about how we leverage our expertise, capital, data and resources to contribute meaningfully to the markets in which we operate. We understand that a healthy and vibrant company prioritizes the well-being of its customers, employees and communities to drive"
"shareholder value. Jamie Dimon Sincerely, Chairman & CEO, JPMorganChase October 2025 Jamie Dimon Chairman & CEO, JPMorganChase October 2025 2024 Sustainability Report 6 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Company at a glance Purpose and Business Principles Our Business Principles guide how we do business and unite our company across the globe."
"How we do business Our Purpose — Make dreams possible for everyone, everywhere, every day — knits together our values with our everyday business principles and explains how we have done business for JPMorgan Chase & Co. (“JPMorganChase”, the “Firm” or “we”) is a financial services firm based in the United States of America (“U.S.”), years. We fulfill our Purpose through our ongoing dedication to invest in our employees and with branches in 48 states and Washington D.C., 317,233 employees in 66"
"countries and $ 4.0 trillion in assets as of December 31, 2024. businesses, further strengthen the market leadership of our franchises, generate long-term The Firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers and small businesses, commercial banking, financial value for our shareholders and help strengthen the broader economy. transaction processing and asset management. Under the J.P. Morgan and Chase brands, the Firm serves millions of customers, predominantly in the"
"U.S., and many of the world’s most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients globally. • We focus on the customer The Firm has three reportable business segments1 — Consumer & Community Banking (“CCB”), Commercial & Investment Bank Exceptional • We are field and client driven; we operate at the local level (“CIB”) and Asset & Wealth Management (“AWM”) — with the remaining activities in Corporate. The Firm’s consumer business client service segment is CCB, and the Firm’s wholesale"
"business segments are CIB and AWM. For descriptions of our Business Segment & • We build world-class franchises, investing for the long term, Corporate Results, refer to pages 70–90 of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. to serve our clients. • We set the highest standards of performance Our approach to sustainability Operational • We demand financial rigor and risk discipline; we will always maintain excellence a fortress balance sheet At JPMorganChase, our approach to"
"sustainability is driven by commercial considerations and informed by client demand and markets. We aim to support inclusive, sustainable economic growth because we believe our business thrives when the communities • We strive for the best internal governance and controls we serve do the same. • We act and think like owners and partners • We strive to build and maintain the best, most efficient systems As a global financial services firm, we believe we can help to address some of the most"
"pressing environmental and social challenges and operations of our time by running a healthy and vibrant company that creates long-term shareholder value; supporting our clients and customers • We are disciplined in everything we do in achieving their business and financial goals; and fostering an inclusive culture and supporting the development of our employees. • We execute with both skill and urgency We maintain strong governance practices and seek to advance sustainability in our business"
"and operations — including how we develop our products and services, serve our customers, manage our operations and supply chain, support our employees and help • We will not compromise our integrity advance economic growth and create opportunities in our communities. A commitment • We face facts With our Purpose and Business Principles in mind, we are leveraging our expertise, capital, data and resources to meet client demand to integrity, • We have fortitude and support clients with financing"
"solutions to scale and grow their businesses, as well as to navigate the challenges and realize the fairness and • We foster an environment of respect, inclusiveness, humanity economic opportunities of a transition to a low-carbon economy. We also seek to support communities by leveraging our products, responsibility and humility services and business expertise to help increase opportunities for individuals as they pursue their dreams. • We help strengthen the communities in which we live and"
"work This Report is designed to consolidate and summarize some of our efforts related to our environmental- and social-related strategies and activities, as well as the governance structures that are designed to support their effective oversight and implementation. • We hire, train and retain great, diverse employees We engage with internal stakeholders and subject matter experts to identify which topics are most pertinent to our business, operations A great team • We build teamwork, loyalty and"
"morale and stakeholders, helping to inform content in this report. All data in this report is as of December 31, 2024, unless otherwise noted. and winning • We maintain an open, entrepreneurial meritocracy for all culture • We communicate honestly, clearly and consistently • We strive to be good leaders 1 Effective in the second quarter of 2024, JPMorganChase reorganized its reportable business segments by combining the former Corporate & Investment Bank and Commercial Banking business segments"
"to form one reportable segment, the Commercial & Investment Bank. 2024 Sustainability Report 7 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Executive overview Our Sustainable Development Target Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Our goal is to finance and/or facilitate more than $2.5 trillion over 10 years — from 2021 through the"
"end of 2030 — to help At JPMorganChase, we recognize that stronger communities are good for business. The Firm grows alongside advance long-term climate initiatives and contribute to sustainable development. While we pursue our $2.5T Sustainable communities as neighborhoods thrive, small businesses expand and more residents achieve financial security. We focus Development Target (“SDT”), we note that it is subject to other prerequisites and critical considerations, both within and on the areas"
"where we believe our resources and expertise can make an impact, including efforts to help fuel business outside our control. Refer to pages 9 - 13 for additional information on our SDT. growth and entrepreneurship, refer to pages 29 and 30; strengthen financial health and wealth creation, refer to pages 31 and 32; and catalyze community development, refer to pages pages 32 and 34. Our human capital strategy, refer to pages Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon"
"economy 35 - 41, focuses on building the workforce of tomorrow by identifying key talent and empowering career growth within our workforce and beyond. We seek to provide clients and individuals with diverse financing and investment solutions, alongside strategic advice, Governance and risk management to help them achieve their business and sustainability goals. As such, we work across our Lines of Business to meet the climate- and sustainability-related banking and investment needs of our"
"clients and customers. Refer to pages 15 and 16 for additional information. We also consider sustainability in our operations with the aims to increase efficiency, lower costs Our governance structures and practices promote accountability, transparency and ethical behavior consistent with our and reduce waste. Refer to pages 18 - 20 for additional information on our operational sustainability efforts and our corporate standards and Business Principles. To learn more about responsibility and"
"oversight of environmental and social operational emissions. matters, including governance structures, business ethics, human rights and our broader efforts to promote transparency and engagement, refer to pages 42 - 48. Refer to pages 22 - 24 for information on our Energy Supply Financing Ratio (“ESFR”) metric, portfolio-level carbon intensity targets and our financed and facilitated emissions metrics. We strive to manage our business and the associated risks in a manner that balances serving"
"the interests of our clients, customers and investors and protecting the safety and soundness of the Firm. Refer to pages 49 - 59 to learn more about how we manage climate, nature and social risks; risks related to financial crimes and corruption; as well as cybersecurity and data privacy. 2024 Sustainability Report 8 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management"
"Appendices Our $2.5T Sustainable Development Target In 2021, we established our $2.5T Sustainable Development Target (“SDT”) to help catalyze global sustainable economic growth. To us, this means using our capital and expertise, consistent with our independent business judgement, to support our clients and customers by capitalizing on new Green opportunities to finance new solutions to a low-carbon economy while also aiming to contribute to socioeconomic development and inclusive growth. Our"
"goal is to finance and/or facilitate more than $2.5 Aiming to support climate initiatives and sustainable resource management, with a focus on helping accelerate the trillion over 10 years — from 2021 through the end of 2030 — to help advance long-term climate initiatives deployment of cleaner sources of energy and facilitating a transition to an energy-secure low-carbon economy. We are and contribute to sustainable development. targeting $1 trillion toward this objective by the end of 2030. Our"
"SDT reflects the Firm’s global, diversified franchise — incorporating activity across both our CCB and CIB business segments — and aims to grow our business activities across three important objectives: Green, Development Finance and Community Development. Business activities that qualify toward the SDT Development Finance include transactions in which the Firm is raising capital and/or extending credit, those for which we are providing advisory, risk management and other facilitation services,"
"and principal capital investments made Working to support sustainable development in emerging economies, focusing on facilitating capital flows that support for commercial purposes2. We developed the SDT’s criteria and methodology taking into account the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. international market practices and industry standards, such as the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (“UN SDGs”), the International Capital Market Association’s Green and Social Bond"
"Principles, and the International Finance Corporation’s Anticipated Impact Measurement and Monitoring system. We aim to be Community Development transparent in our methodology, and we recalibrate our approach as we determine appropriate. While we pursue our SDT, we note that it is subject to other prerequisites and critical considerations, both Striving to advance economic inclusion in developed markets, with a focus in the United States on Low-to-Moderate within and outside our control. As"
"such, we do not expect progress to be linear. Our financing and advisory Income (“LMI”)3 individuals and communities, and closing the wealth gap among underserved communities, including but initiatives are also subject to the same macroeconomic conditions that impact our franchise and the not limited to Black, Hispanic and Latino individuals and communities. This includes many of the actions we are taking as broader financial markets. Progress toward our SDT is also dependent on client"
"origination of green, social part of our Racial Equity Commitment. and sustainability-related transactions, as well as on market conditions that enable demand for qualifying business activities. We also note that, in pursuing our SDT, we make financing and business decisions based on a broad set of commercial, strategic, market and risk considerations, as well as our clients’ and customers’ needs. We plan to continue to evaluate our SDT, make our own decisions on our approach, and adjust it as"
"we deem necessary, in light of considerations including the latest climate science and technology, macroeconomic trends, and commercial impacts. To learn more on our SDT, including the activities it is designed to support and amplify across our business, refer to Our Approach to Our Sustainable Development Target. 2 Some activities that we count toward our SDT are also included as “Eligible Projects” in our “Sustainable Asset Portfolio”, to which net proceeds from our Sustainable Bond issuances"
"are allocated to fund. Details on “Eligible Projects” and the “Sustainable Asset Portfolio” are available in our Sustainable Bond Framework. For more information on JPMorganChase’s Sustainable Bond issuances, refer to Annual Sustainable Bond Report. 3 LMI is determined using the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (“FFIEC”) Census demographic data based on a comparison to median income in the Metropolitan Statistical Area (“MSA”)/Core Based Statistical Area (“CBSA”). 2024"
"Sustainability Report 9 Progress Toward the Sustainable Development Target7 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Progress Toward the Sustainable Development Target7 $2.5T $284B $196B $193B $226B Pro 20 g 2 r 1 ess 2 T 02 o 2 wa 2 r 0 d 2 3 the2 0S2u4stainable Development Tar B g y e t t 7 he end of 2030 Progress toward the Sustainable Development"
"Target4 Progress Toward the Sustainable Development Target7 $2.5T $284B $196B $193B $226B $900B | 36% 2021 2022 2023 2024 By th $ e 2 e .5 n T d of 2030 $284B $196B $193B $226B We track progress toward our SDT by attributing business activity across the Firm that supports our SDT’s objectives5,6 . Since 2021 2021 2022 2023 2024 By the end of 2030 $2.5T $284B $196B $193B $226B In 2024, we financed and/or facilitated approximately $226 billion toward the SDT: $68 billion toward the Green"
"objective, 2021 $9020022B | 230623% 2024 By the end of 2030 $129 billion toward the Development Finance objective and $29 billion toward the Community Development objective. Collectively, $900B | 36% Since 2021 since 2021, we have financed and/or facilitated $900 billion toward our SDT, including $309 billion toward our $1 trillion Green Since 2021 $900B | 36% objective. The macroeconomic environment in which we operate influences our ability to facilitate capital. In recent years, Annual"
"progress (2024) Since 2021 macroeconomic conditions characterized by geopolitical tensions, diverging global economic growth and heightened interest rate volatility have slowed the pace of financing and facilitation opportunities. Under more favorable conditions, we would expect these Annual progress (2024) Annual progress (202$41)9B opportunities to increase. We aim to support our clients through all macroeconomic cycles and remain focused on meeting client Consumer & needs and supporting"
"sustainable economic growth. Comunity Banking Annual progress (2024) In line with the Firm’s approach for the rest of our business, we do not manage the SDT focused on short-term results, but rather on $29B $19B $19B positioning ourselves to drive long-term progress. We are focused on supporting our clients and customers — including in their Community Consu C m o e n r s & u mer & $100B Comunity Banking efforts to support sustainable development. In this section, we report our progress in each"
"objective through December 31, 2024. Development Total Comunity Banking Total CIB $29B $68B $19B Comm $ un 2 it 9 y B $226B $226B Global GreeCnonsumer & $100B De C v o el m op $m m 1u2 e n n 9i t tBy $Ba10nk0inBg Total $106B Total CIB DDeevveellooppmmeenntt $68CBomunity Banking $29B $22T6oBtal Green$68BC IB Markets$226B TotalG lobal CIB $F1in2a9nBce $226B $226BBan king Global Our Sustainable Development Target in action: De C v o el m op$ m m1 u 2e n n9 i t t B y Gree $ n 106B B $ a 10 nk 0 in B"
"g D D e e v v e e Fl l o o inp p am m nce e en n t t Total CIB Markets$106B Total CIB $68B CIB Markets Finance $226B $226B Global Green In 2024, JPMorganChase served as joint structuring agent and joint bookrunner for Verbund, an Austrian utility and $129B Banking $106B renewable energy company, on its €500 million8, 7-year green bond, which Verbund seeks to align with the EU Taxonomy Development CIB Markets Finance and with the EU Green Bond Standard. Proceeds are expected to be allocated up to"
"90% toward electricity grid upgrades to enhance electricity supply, with the remaining 10% supporting biodiversity projects, including terrestrial and aquatic habitat restoration. This transaction illustrates the potential for including nature and biodiversity in green bonds. Cumulative progress (2021–2024) Cumulative progress (2021–2024) Cumulative progress (2021–2024) $88B $88B Consumer & Consumer & Community Banking Community Banking 4 Reported progress toward the SDT for the year 2024"
"reflects updates to Our Approach to Our Sustainable Development Target published October 2025. Cumulative progress (2021–2024) $$151566BB $88B 5 Updates to our Our Approach to Our Sustainable Development Target and determinations regarding eligibility and categorization of transactions into different criteria are CCoommmmuunintyity Consumer & overseen by an internal governance group. D D e e v v e e lo lo p p m m en e t nt TotTalotal $3 C 0 o 9$ m B3 m 0 u 9 n B it y Banking Total Total $447B"
"$447B Green CIB $900B Green $88B$900B CIB $156B $900B $900B Global 6 When tracking transactions that support multiple objectives of our SDT, we count transactions only once and toward only one objective in the following order (as applicable): $C3o6n4sBumer & Global Green, Development Finance or Community Development. With this approach, we seek to avoid double counting, simplify tracking toward our progress and create clarity in Com$4m3u4nBity $364B Banking our disclosures. DDeevveelol $ opp 4"
"mm 3 en 4 etn B t Total Co$m3m0u9nBityC BIBanking Total $Ba4n4k7inBg CIB Develo$p1m56enBt GreeMnarkets CIB Finance $900B $900B Markets 7 Effective in the second quarter of 2024, the Firm reorganized its reportable business segments by combining the former Corporate & Investment Bank and Commercial ComFminuannictey Global Banking business segments to form one reportable segment, the Commercial & Investment Bank (“CIB”). As such, progress toward the SDT is now reported by Lines of Devel$op4m34enBt"
"Total $309B $364B Total B $ a 4 n 4 k 7 in B g Business for CIB and Consumer & Community Banking (“CCB”). The CIB Global Banking includes business activities from our Global Investment Banking, Commercial Banking Development $900B Green CIB $900B CIB and Global Corporate Banking businesses. Markets Global Finance $364B 8 $434B Banking The deal par value in US Dollars was approximately $539.2 million. Per our Sustainable Development Target (“SDT”) methodology, all transactions are accounted for"
"in USD, Note: Totals may not sum due to rounding. CIB with currency conversions completed as of the local market close on the transaction date. JPMorganChase apportioned share in the transaction was $108.2 million, and, in Development accordance with our SDT methodology, only this amount was counted toward our target. Markets Finance Note: Totals may not sum due to rounding. Note: Totals may not sum due to rounding. 2024 Sustainability Report 10 Note: Totals may not sum due to rounding."
"Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Green Progress toward the $1 trillion Green objective $1T Our $1 trillion Green objective is intended to support the development and scaling of climate $106B $70B $65B $68B 2021 2022 2023 2024 By the end of 2030 initiatives and sustainable resource management. Developing effective climate initiatives requires"
"significant capital, including capital to deploy and scale low-carbon energy solutions to meet the $309B | 31% world’s growing energy needs. Capital is also required to promote the sustainable management of Since 2021 resources, including water and forests. These aims can support each other — certain climate initiatives can also have positive impacts on nature, biodiversity and the sustainable management of Cumulative progress by line of business resources. Eligible activities include activities"
"in areas such as renewable and low-carbon energy, sustainable transportation, sustainable food, water management, and conservation and biodiversity. 2023 $B 2024 $B Cumulative Totali $B In 2024, we financed and/or facilitated approximately $68 billion in support of our Green objective, Commercial & Investment Bank 60 61 295 particularly through green bond underwriting and financing for renewable and low-carbon energy. CIB Global Banking 44 46 215 We support green activities through a variety of"
"business activities around the Firm, such as raising capital for clean technology companies and providing consumer auto financing for electric vehicles. CIB Markets 17 15 80 Many of the eligible transactions counted toward our Green objective meet more than one of the Consumer & Community Banking 5 7 14 Green eligibility criteria (e.g., a green bond where proceeds can be used for both renewable energy and water conservation) and are, therefore, categorized as “multiple criteria.” We show a"
"breakdown Totalii 65 68 309 of the types of transactions included in the multiple criteria category in the pie chart on this page. Note: Totals may not sum due to rounding. i. Total as cumulative progress from 2021 to 2024. For additional detail on year-on-year progress since 2021, refer to our Sustainability Data Tables. ii. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current presentation. Cumulative progress by eligibility criteria 2023 $B 2024 $B Cumulative Totali $B Renewables"
"and low-carbon 15 18 69 energy Clean technology 4 2 11 2024 Progress in Multiple Criteria Sustainable transportation 6 7 37 $22B Green bonds Green buildings 1 0 7 $12B Sustainability bonds Adaptation and resilience 0 1 1 Total $38B Water management 2 1 11 Circular economy and waste 0 1 2 $2B Other management $2B Emissions contracts Multiple criteriaii 36 38 171 Note: Totals may not sum due to rounding. Totalii 65 68 309 Note: Totals may not sum due to rounding. i. Total as cumulative progress"
"from 2021 to 2024. For additional detail on year-on-year progress since 2021, refer to our Sustainability Data Tables. ii. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current presentation. 2024 Sustainability Report 11 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Development Finance Cumulative progress by line of business9 2023 $B 2024 $B"
"Cumulative Totali $B The Development Finance objective of the SDT highlights the work of the J.P. Morgan Development Finance Institution (“JPM DFI”), which works to facilitate capital flows that support sustainable CIB Global Banking 35 44 169 development in emerging economies. JPM DFI uses its methodology to qualify transactions, which CIB Markets 67 85 265 include both banking and markets transactions (e.g., foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity derivatives), with anticipated"
"environmental and socioeconomic impacts. JPM DFI also acts as Total 102 129 434 development finance structuring agent, which involves assisting corporate and sovereign clients to measure and communicate the development impact of their business activities with investors and Note: Totals may not sum due to rounding. other stakeholders. It also seeks to expand the market for impact-focused investing by creating a i. Total as cumulative progress from 2021 to 2024. For additional detail on year-on-"
"year progress since 2021, common framework for organizations to measure and disclose their development impact. In 2024, refer to our Sustainability Data Tables. approximately $129 billion of development finance activity qualified toward the SDT. For more information, refer to the J.P. Morgan DFI 2024 Annual Report. Cumulative progress by region 2023 $B 2024 $B Cumulative Totali $B In addition to the $129 billion, the J.P. Morgan DFI qualified $10 billion, that East Asia & Pacific 21 27 102 we"
"counted toward the Green objective instead of the Development Finance South Asia 1 1 10 objective, per our SDT methodology. Latin America & Caribbean 17 23 95 The $139 billion total is reflected in the J.P. Morgan Development Finance Eastern Europe & Central Asia 23 38 94 Institution 2024 Annual Report. Sub-Saharan Africa 3 4 20 Middle East & North Africa 0 1 3 Global development institutions 37 35 111 Total 102 129 434 Note: Totals may not sum due to rounding. i. Total as cumulative progress"
"from 2021 to 2024. For additional detail on year-on-year progress since 2021, refer to our Sustainability Data Tables. 9 Categorization of activities that count toward the Development Finance objective of our SDT is performed based on the type of activities rather than by the originating LOB. 2024 Sustainability Report 12 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk"
"management Appendices Community Development Note: Totals may not sum due to rounding. i. Total as cumulative progress from 2021 to 2024. For additional detail on year-on-year progress since 2021, refer to our Sustainability Data Tables. Our work in the Community Development objective of our SDT supports areas such as homeownership and affordable housing, ii. Reflects total dollar amount of financing for the preservation, construction, rehabilitation and/or refinance of affordable housing."
"Inclusive of small business growth, education and healthcare, with a focus on LMI individuals and underserved communities, including but loans originated for the refinance or purchase of multifamily affordable housing under the Affordable Housing Preservation Program; not limited to Black, Hispanic and Latino individuals and communities. financing for multifamily government subsidized affordable housing projects or other housing projects benefiting to low-to-moderate households; equity"
"commitments to partnerships or limited liability companies that own rental properties that qualify within Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code for Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (“LIHTC”); equity commitments to Preservation Funds and Racial & Income In 2024, we financed and facilitated approximately $29 billion toward this objective. This includes $10 billion in homeownership, Equity Funds; the full loan origination amount for multifamily affordable housing loans underwritten by JPMorganChase"
"through the Fannie $2 billion in small business financing and $10 billion for affordable housing. Mae DUS Program. Where applicable, our Racial Equity Commitment reflects incremental dollar amount measured against 2019 baseline business results. Refer to this website for progress on our Racial Equity Commitment. The Community Development objective includes many of the activities we are engaging in as part of our Racial Equity iii. Reflects total dollar amount of originated home purchase or"
"refinance loans conducted in accordance with our generally applicable Commitment. underwriting and product terms. Progress in 2023 includes $5 billion for Black, Hispanic and Latino (“BHL”) borrowers / co-borrowers and $4 billion for Low-to-Moderate Income (“LMI”) borrowers / co-borrowers. Progress in 2024 includes $7 billion for BHL borrowers / co-borrowers and $3 billion for LMI borrowers / co-borrowers. Cumulative progress as of December 31, 2024 was $33 billion for BHL borrowers / co-"
"borrowers, and $32 billion for LMI borrowers / co-borrowers. Where applicable, our Racial Equity Commitment reflects incremental dollar amount measured against 2019 baseline business results. Refer to this website for progress on our Racial Equity Commitment. iv. Reflects total dollar amount of loans or lines of credit conducted in accordance with our generally applicable underwriting and product Cumulative progress by line of business terms. Progress in 2023 includes $1 billion for majority BHL"
"communities and $1 billion for LMI communities. Progress in 2024 includes $1 billion for majority BHL communities and $1 billion for LMI communities. Cumulative progress as of December 31, 2024 was $4 billion for majority BHL communities, and $5 billion for LMI communities. Our Racial Equity Commitment reflects incremental dollar amount measured 2023 $B 2024 $B Cumulative Totali $B against 2019 baseline business results. Refer to this website for progress on our Racial Equity Commitment."
"Commercial & Investment Bank 15 17 81 v. Reflects total dollar amount of loans, lines and letters of credit to certified CDFIs, CDFI-managed funds, and similar affordable housing intermediaries (e.g., LIHTC syndicators) and funded Qualified Equity Investment to New Market Tax Credit (“NMTC”) Investments; whereas CIB Global Banking 10 10 63 our Racial Equity Commitment reflects incremental dollar amount measured against 2019 baseline business results. Refer to this website for progress on our"
"Racial Equity Commitment. CIB Markets 5 7 19 vi. Prior period amounts have been revised to conform with the current presentation. Consumer and Community Banking 11 12 75 Total 26 29 156 Our Racial Equity Commitment Cumulative progress by eligibility criteria We are dedicated to supporting underserved communities as part of our corporate responsibility efforts and facilitating long-term shareholder value. We strive to empower individuals and to improve 2023 $B 2024 $B Cumulative Totali $B lives"
"through our business practices and community outreach efforts10. In 2020, the Firm announced Affordable housingii 9 10 51 our $30 billion, five-year Racial Equity Commitment to help close the racial wealth gap and advance economic inclusion for customers and communities that are underserved in the U.S., including Black, Homeownershipiii 8 10 65 Hispanic and Latino customers and communities. This includes incremental lending and equity Small businessiv 2 2 9 investments11, as well as"
"philanthropic capital, products and services12. As of December 31, 2024, we Vital community institutionsv 1 1 2 reported $32.6 billion of progress in connection with these initiatives. For detailed information, refer to this website. We remain encouraged by the progress achieved thus far and continue to help Social bondsvi 5 6 28 communities succeed. Total 26 29 156 10 These initiatives aim to benefit customers, communities, and our business, and are conducted in accordance with our generally"
"applicable underwriting and product terms. 11 Reflects new products or investments since the October 2020 announcement or incremental dollars and/or units (annual results measured as progress against 2019 business results). 12 The Firm’s philanthropic capital, products and services are open to all regardless of race. 2024 Sustainability Report 13 Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition"
"to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Facilitating capital and creating investment solutions | Supporting a transition to an energy-secure, low-carbon economy | Managing our operational footprint | Our climate-related metrics and targets 2024 Sustainability Report 14 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees"
"Governance Risk management Appendices Asset & Wealth Management Our global and diversified franchise allows us to serve a broad range of clients, including individuals, families and At JPMorganChase, our financing strengthens the economy and supports affordable, secure energy to help institutions. Our AWM business offers investment solutions tailored to the investment goals and values of clients. For those facilitate a transition to a low-carbon economy. We aim to provide capital, data and"
"expertise to meet client interested, we offer sustainability-focused financial options, including a range of climate- and sustainability-related demand and support clients with financing solutions to scale and grow their businesses, as well as to navigate the products and services. We aim to give clients the tools they need to meet their goals. challenges and realize the economic opportunities of a transition to a low-carbon economy. We also consider sustainability in our operations with the"
"aims to increase efficiency, lower costs and reduce waste. Our Global Sustainable Investing and Stewardship team at J.P. Morgan Asset Management (“JPMAM”) works with clients to build and implement sustainable investing solutions; and helps lead JPMAM investment stewardship activities, including We recognize that long-term success — in a transition to a low-carbon economy and in our business — requires proxy voting and investee company engagement. To learn more about these efforts, refer to the"
"JPMAM Climate Report working with policymakers and stakeholders to help advance the development of effective public policies that and the JPMAM Investment Stewardship Report. further economic growth, support energy security and affordability and strengthen communities. For more information on our policy and industry engagement, refer to page 48 . We continue to offer Sustainable Investment solutions through J.P. Morgan Global Private Bank, which provides high-net- worth clients, endowments and"
"foundations with access to a breadth of strategies across equities, fixed income, alternatives and multi-asset portfolios. To help clients achieve their sustainable investing goals, we offer strategies focused on topics such as the energy transition and workforce development. Consumer and Community Bank We continue to support our customers wanting to transition to electric vehicles (“EVs”) by helping them access financing Facilitating capital and to support their purchases. We provide financing"
"for electric and hybrid vehicles, which consumers can find on our online auto marketplace and through our private label relationships with EV manufacturers. We also offer an online EV Education Center, which helps consumers learn about, find and purchase electric and hybrid vehicles. creating investment solutions In addition, we strive to support our customers in sustainable homeownership with sustainability focused articles in our online Mortgage Education Center. A wide variety of topics are"
"covered, including information about energy efficiency, solar panels and green landscaping. Transitioning to a sustainable, energy-secure low-carbon economy will require significant capital, including capital to Commercial & Investment Bank deploy and scale cleaner energy solutions to meet the world’s growing energy needs, and capital to promote sustainable management of resources. We seek to provide clients and individuals with diverse financing and investment solutions, alongside strategic"
"advice, to help them achieve their business and sustainability goals. As such, we work across our LOBs Our Corporate Advisory team (“CA”) helps clients achieve their long-term strategic goals through holistic advice along with to meet the climate- and sustainability-related banking and investment needs of our clients and customers. merger and acquisitions (“M&A”) and capital markets solutions. CA partners with coverage and product teams across the CIB, as well as Corporate Sustainability, to"
"offer differentiated climate-focused solutions to our global client base. Within Some of these efforts are reflected in our $1 trillion Green objective — set in April 2021 as part of our SDT — which is CA, the Center for Carbon Transition works to develop and track progress toward the Firm’s portfolio-level carbon intensity intended to support the development and scaling of climate initiatives and sustainable resource management (refer to targets and oversees the implementation of our Carbon"
"Assessment Framework (“CAF”). For more information on our page 9 for additional information). We also issue our own sustainable bonds. For more detail on JPMorganChase Green targets and the CAF, refer to page 17 and pages 23 - 25. CA also publishes the Climate Intuition series that combines Bond issuances, refer to our 2024 Annual Sustainable Bond Report. scientific fact-based assessments with practical applications to highlight the impacts of climate change on strategic decision-making. 2024"
"Sustainability Report 1155 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Supporting a transition Within CIB Markets, the Global Markets Sustainability Center works with product teams and aims to advance the development of tailored sustainability and climate solutions across asset classes by incorporating investors’ preferences and sustainability criteria"
"into investment strategies. These efforts focus on helping clients gain exposure to distinct risk to an energy-secure, low- and reward profiles, while also helping to transition their portfolios to a low-carbon economy based on investors’ interests. Our Green Economy Banking team (“GEB”) provides subject matter expertise, banking solutions and specialized credit support to companies that are advancing technologies to support an affordable, energy-secure and low-carbon future. carbon economy GEB"
"serves businesses in North America and Europe across three coverage areas — renewable energy, sustainable finance and climate tech. Our sustainable finance capital markets teams support our clients’ sustainability-related activities in the sustainability- themed debt and debt-like markets. With over $35.4 billion in green, social, sustainable and sustainability-linked bonds underwritten in 2024, we are one of the leaders in the market for sustainability-themed debt issuances13. We recognize that"
"transitioning to a low-carbon economy requires balancing environmental needs, social progress, Global Research produces a range of sustainability-focused investment research insights to meet investors’ evolving technological advancement, energy affordability and security, and economic stability. This understanding informs our needs and support their investment strategies. Our published Sustainability Investing content includes regular cross-asset approach to environmental and climate"
"initiatives, which is rooted in commercial considerations, including serving our thematic thought pieces on key developments, and collaborative pieces between Sustainable Investing and sector customers, clients and communities while running a healthy and vibrant company. analysts that consider environmental, social and governance issues with industry context. In addition, the J.P. Morgan suite of sustainable fixed income indices (including the flagship JESG index family) serves clients globally"
"with benchmarks that We seek to meet the needs of clients looking to incorporate climate-aligned considerations and solutions into their long- integrate environmental, social and governance factors. term business strategies. We also aim to leverage our expertise and balance sheet to support clients in advancing their low-carbon transition goals and in developing strategies that help them remain competitive in a changing world. Transitioning to an energy-secure low-carbon economy requires"
"meaningful progress in areas that extend beyond the role or influence of any single sector of the economy. For this transition to happen, governments will need to establish supportive policies, invest in grid infrastructure and enable access to critical minerals, while real economy sectors will need to continue to advance technologies, business models and financially viable projects. However, many of the conditions needed to enable this progress are not yet in place. For example, decarbonization"
"progress across key sectors of the economy — particularly high-emitting ones — is not aligned with emissions pathways consistent with limiting global temperature rise to 1.5°C. This reflects the broader challenges of transitioning to a low-carbon economy and underscores the need for continued, pragmatic support for our clients. Our decisions are guided by commercial and financial considerations, while taking into account the specific characteristics and risks of each sector we serve. Our efforts"
"are aimed at supporting a low-carbon, energy-secure future and continuing to serve clients across sectors of the global economy. 13 Dealogic Sustainable Finance Review, Syndicated Bonds, Loans and Equity — Full Year 2024. Note that third-party estimates of green, social, sustainable and sustainability-linked bond underwriting may be different from JPMorganChase-produced data for green, social, sustainable bond underwriting in our Sustainable Development Target (“SDT”). 2024 Sustainability Report"
"1166 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Our Carbon Assessment Framework How we are using CAF Understanding our clients — including their business models, sector and regional Client engagement: Assessing our clients’ decarbonization plans through our CAF Supporting methane dynamics — helps us provide meaningful support to their decarbonization"
"objectives creates an opportunity for us to engage with our clients on their transition strategies. emissions reduction through tailored financial solutions, capital and advice. Our Carbon Assessment It helps us understand their priorities and constraints, as well as their capital needs, Framework (“CAF”) aims to provide a consistent and data-driven approach to assess and enables us to identify where and how we can best support their climate objectives. An area of focus with our clients in the"
"Oil & Gas our clients’ emissions and decarbonization plans. Portfolio management: For each in-scope transaction14, a CAF assessment is sector is supporting their efforts to adopt direct The framework is comprised of two key scores that are assessed for each client: a triggered during the deal origination and forms part of the materials submitted to methane emissions measurement technologies and quantitative score and a qualitative score (collectively known as the CAF scores). decision-making"
"committees. While all transactions are assessed on an individual robust accounting protocols. Historically, methane basis with a holistic view of many factors that inform our commercial considerations, emissions have been difficult to address in part due the CAF provides decision-makers at the Firm with insights into how the transaction to a lack of reliable data. Harnessing technology for may impact the carbon intensity of a targeted sector portfolio15. Our CAF framework is methane measurement"
"is an important step toward not intended to restrict our financing but informs how we capture sustainability- improving the accuracy and transparency of related opportunities. methane emissions data, which, in turn, can help to mobilize targeted methane emissions reduction Key Aspects of Our Carbon Assessment Framework efforts globally. For the purposes of estimating the operational carbon intensity of our Oil & Gas portfolio, we are Quantitative assessment Qualitative assessment engaging with"
"and assessing data providers that are integrating a variety of measurement-based technologies for methane emissions into their data Current Client is scored relative to carbon intensity performance within Holistic view of the client’s plans and actions to achieve its decarbonization products. By supporting the industry in improving carbon intensity the same sector portfolio plans including: the availability and accuracy of methane emissions Forecasted Client is scored relative to the applicable"
"JPMorganChase Client’s Board oversight and corporate governance of climate-related matters data, we hope to gain a more accurate picture of a client’s carbon intensity, improve the quality of CAF carbon intensity carbon intensity target scores for Oil & Gas clients and have better insights Client’s integration of climate risk and opportunities in corporate strategy into the makeup of our financed emissions, while Historical carbon Client is scored based on the 2-year change in its carbon"
"intensity also informing our engagement efforts with clients intensity reduction Client’s investments toward decarbonization as appropriate. CAF Quantitative Score CAF Qualitative Score Scale: 1 to 5, where 1 is lowest Scale: 1 to 5, where 1 is lowest Bucket 1 Bucket 2 Bucket 3 Bucket 4 Bucket 5 LOWEST HIGHEST 14 In-scope transactions include lending, tax oriented investments and capital markets activity within targeted sector portfolios. Targeted sector portfolios are those for which the Firm"
"has set a portfolio-level carbon intensity target. See pages 23 - 25 for more information on our portfolio-level carbon intensity targets. 15 Refers to a sector portfolio for which the Firm has set a portfolio-level carbon intensity target. See pages 23 - 25 for more information. 2024 Sustainability Report 1177 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management"
"Appendices Managing our operational footprint We work to manage the environmental footprint of our own operations and supply chain. Our reported operational environmental footprint is driven by the energy and resources we use to run our global network of more than 6,500 sites, including corporate offices, bank branches and data centers. Our approach includes managing our energy and carbon footprint, constructing and operating more sustainable buildings and implementing leading practices in"
"sustainable sourcing and resource management. For more information on our reported operational emissions footprint, refer to page 20. Energy and carbon footprint management We are working to make our operations more sustainable and efficient. Our strategy is informed by the insights we have gained over time, and we aim to continue to refine our understanding of effective practices and areas for improvement. In 2020, we established a set of voluntary targets to help guide our efforts to manage"
"our energy and carbon footprint. Since then, we have made progress and have integrated some of the learnings into our regular business activities. We regularly reassess our approach to managing our energy and carbon footprint, taking into account factors such as market conditions, expert views, technological advancements, and the broader business interest and environmental sustainability strategy of the Firm, and evolve our approach as we deem appropriate. At this time, while our efforts"
"continue to be guided by the concept of the greenhouse gas (“GHG”) mitigation hierarchy — designed to prioritize actions that avoid, reduce and replace emissions before considering those that remove or compensate for them — we have transitioned from time- and percent-bound targets to a decision framework designed to evaluate complex carbon management initiatives and help prioritize those with the greatest potential emissions reduction relative to cost. This evolution in our strategy reflects the"
"insights we have gained over the years and enables us to adapt to a changing landscape, including increased power demand, the pace of technological advancements and overall economics of sustainable solutions. As part of our framework, we consider the cost of renewable energy and high-quality carbon credits as benchmarks to evaluate the cost per ton of avoiding, reducing or removing carbon. Our framework involves pursuing solutions that seek to maximize impact while aligning with our operational"
"and financial priorities, considering the goals of building a diverse portfolio of operational initiatives and supporting evolving market mechanisms. We will continue to reassess and evolve our approach as we deem appropriate, taking into account factors such as those described above. 16 To learn more about the criteria we prioritize when evaluating the quality and credibility of carbon credits, refer to our Carbon Market Principles. 2024 Sustainability Report 1188 ytiroirp rehgiH ytiroirp rewoL"
"Our GHG mitigation hierarchy STRATEGY Designing and investing in new activities to be low-carbon from the outset — AVOID such as by purchasing or constructing low-emissions equipment and buildings — or deciding not to pursue new, high-emitting operational activities. Upgrading or retrofitting existing equipment, buildings, and processes to be REDUCE more energy-efficient, and therefore, reduce emissions. Substituting high-carbon energy sources with low- or zero-carbon alternatives, REPLACE such"
"as renewable electricity. REMOVE OR Addressing residual emissions and/or support development of climate COMPENSATE initiatives through the purchase and retirement of high-quality carbon credits.16 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Improving energy efficiency and accelerating electrification Purchasing high-quality carbon credits17 Enhancing"
"energy efficiency and pursuing opportunities for electrification are important elements of our approach. To complement our ongoing emissions reduction efforts, we also seek to address our remaining emissions by purchasing We seek to implement initiatives that help us reduce or avoid both emissions and energy-related costs. We: and retiring high-quality carbon credits. • Work to optimize capacity and distribution of our data centers by migrating to more efficient facilities. In 2024, our"
"portfolio included credits from nature-based, hybrid and engineered removal projects, including improved forest management (“IFM”), afforestation, blue carbon, biochar and bio-oil sequestration. By supporting a diversified • Made energy efficiency improvements in technology used by our employees in 2024, which included reducing the portfolio of carbon removal projects, we aim to help develop the broader market and scale emerging solutions. standard brightness of more than 19,000 computer"
"monitors, resulting in a decrease in energy use and associated emissions. • Updated our global amenity service guidelines in 2024 to prioritize electric equipment in new kitchen installations and future builds. In May 2025, we executed one of the largest engineered carbon removal offtake agreements to date, with CO280 Inc., a U.S.-based developer of large-scale carbon dioxide removal (“CDR”) projects. These projects intend to Sourcing renewables capture and store carbon emissions from biomass"
"waste combustion in retrofitted pulp and paper mills located in the U.S. Gulf Coast. The agreement represents one of the lowest price points per ton for high-quality engineered We are also working to reduce our operational GHG emissions by generating and sourcing renewable electricity for our CDR, at under $200 per ton of CO over a 13-year agreement. It also may signal the potential for these global electric power needs. This includes aiming to increase our use of on-site solar energy systems,"
"as well as 2 technologies to become more affordable and accessible, which may lead to broader adoption by corporate negotiating long-term energy contracts and purchasing energy attribute certificates (“EACs”). buyers. Furthermore, the agreement is an example of the Firm’s leadership in supporting the scaling of cost- • On-site solar: Where feasible, we seek to reduce our emissions through an on-site solar program spanning our owned effective carbon removal solutions and unlocks capital"
"investment in energy-intensive industries, like pulp and retail branches, commercial offices and data centers. In 2024, we continued our efforts to expand on-site solar across paper, generating revenue from carbon credits to help support business investment and local job growth. our U.S. commercial and retail portfolio, adding on-site solar at 64 retail branches totaling a capacity of 1.79 MW, and 3 commercial office sites totaling a capacity of 12.7 MW. We recently began piloting the pairing of"
"these on-site solar systems with batteries to maximize renewable energy use. • Long-term energy contracts: For our electricity needs that cannot be met with on-site renewables, we have entered into, and continue to evaluate additional opportunities for, utility-scale renewable electricity procurement via long-term power purchase agreements (“PPAs”) and renewable electricity supply contracts. We also assess distributed Kinexys by J.P. Morgan is working on an application that enables carbon"
"registries to tokenize carbon credits, generation solutions, such as community solar. striving to make the recordkeeping and transacting of these assets easier and more efficient. This project aims to help solve problems including lack of transparency and standardization as well as fragmentation in the carbon • EAC procurement: We purchase applicable EACs, including Renewable Energy Certificates (“RECs”) and International- markets. By leveraging blockchain as the primary record of ownership"
"throughout the credit lifecycle, Kinexys RECs, where on-site or contractual solutions are not feasible. We believe these instruments are an important lever in the hopes to build trust and increase liquidity in the voluntary carbon market. The initiative focuses on improving how commercialization of renewable electricity, helping to foster market growth and sustainability of the electric power carbon credits are managed and accessed, intending to make it simpler for stakeholders to read,"
"understand and generation sector. action the data. This effort is part of the Firm’s larger strategy to enhance the carbon market’s effectiveness, quality and scale. To learn more on our efforts to support an effective voluntary carbon market, refer to our Carbon Market Principles and Carbon Markets Reimagined papers. 17 Carbon credits and the market for them are evolving. Although we endeavor to source high-quality carbon credits verified by independent third parties, the ability to use carbon"
"credits to fully and permanently address unabated emissions relies on certain assumptions and is subject to debate among experts. To learn more about the criteria we prioritize when evaluating the quality and credibility of carbon credits, please refer to our Carbon Market Principles paper. 2024 Sustainability Report 1199 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk"
"management Appendices Our operational emissions 2024 2023 GHG emissions (tCO e) 2 JPMorganChase reported 2024 operational GHG emissions were largely driven by activities to power Scope 1 GHG emissionsi 100,024 115,294 our buildings (e.g., electricity, heating and cooling). Scope 1 GHG emissions were driven by our building operations and company-owned aircraft and vehicles. Scope 2 GHG emissions, from Natural gas 49,354 48,232 purchased electricity, remain the largest driver of our building-"
"related emissions and overall Propane 50 50 operational GHG footprint. Fuel oil 422 420 The table on the right summarizes our 2024 operational GHG emissions. Jet fuel 12,414 13,059 We no longer disclose Scope 3 - Category 6 (business travel) GHG emissions, as it is not a significant Fugitive emissionsii 33,121 48,658 source within the Firm’s Scope 3 GHG emissions inventory. This approach aligns with climate-related reporting frameworks that emphasize focusing disclosures on significant sources"
"of emissions. Diesel 2,384 2,855 We plan to continue to review and consider opportunities to enhance the quality of our GHG Fleet 1,627 1,892 emissions inventory over time. Other energy useiii, iv 652 128 Scope 2 GHG emissions (location-based)i 773,852 792,479 Electric power Purchased electricity 767,046 788,837 Since 2020, we have sourced renewable electricity for our global electric power needs through a Purchased steam, district heat and chilled wateriv 6,806 3,642 combination of on-site"
"solar installations at JPMorganChase commercial and retail locations, and the Scope 1 GHG emissions + Scope 2 GHG emissions (location-based) 873,876 907,773 purchase of renewable electricity via both long-term power purchase agreements and applicable EACs. GHG emissions intensityv 4.9 5.7 The table below summarizes our renewable electricity use obtained via either on-site generation or Scope 2 GHG emissions (market-based)i 6,806 3,642 contractual instruments. Purchased electricityvi — —"
"Purchased steam, district heat and chilled wateriv 6,806 3,642 2024 2023 Scope 1 GHG emissions + Scope 2 GHG emissions (market-based)i 106,830 118,936 Electric power (MWh) Verified carbon credits i, vii 367,311 374,417 Electricity production (on-site solar) 57,420 47,443 i. We engaged an external third-party to perform a limited assurance engagement over these metrics presented for 2023 and 2024. Find our Management Assertion and the Report of Independent Accountants here. Purchased electricityi"
"2,041,374 2,016,262 ii. 2024 fugitive emissions reflect improved data collection at North American data centers, with figures based on actual refrigerant leak tracking data instead of estimation. For additional detail on our methodology, refer to our Management Assertion and the Report of Independent Accountants here. Purchased renewable electricityi, ii 2,041,374 2,016,262 iii. Includes emissions from heavy fuel oils, anthracite coal, biofuels and waste. iv. 2024 includes GHG emissions"
"estimated using revenue-based methodology for acquisitions. Acquisitions completed within 18 months of the reporting year — previously excluded due to i. We engaged an external third-party to perform a limited assurance engagement over these metrics presented for 2023 and 2024. data availability — were included in 2024. In addition, data centers used by Neovest, a subsidiary which offers a broker-neutral service, are excluded due to limited availability of data. Joint Find our Management"
"Assertion and the Report of Independent Accountants here. ventures outside our operational control are excluded. v. Includes Scope 1 and Scope 2 (location-based) GHG emissions; tCO e/million USD revenue. ii. Purchased renewable electricity from unbundled EACs, and contractual instruments which included power purchase agreements, 2 virtual power purchase agreements and renewable electricity supply contracts. vi. Market-based emissions for purchased electricity are reported as zero due to the"
"purchase of renewable electricity through unbundled EACs and contractual instruments, including PPAs, virtual power purchase agreements and renewable electricity supply contracts. vii. Carbon credits and the market for them are evolving. Although we endeavor to source high-quality carbon credits verified by independent third parties, the use of carbon credits relies on certain assumptions and is subject to debate among experts. 2024 Sustainability Report 2200 Introduction Supporting secure and"
"affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Sustainable buildings Sustainable sourcing We aim to provide healthy and comfortable spaces for our employees, customers and clients, while also reducing the The products and services we purchase to support our business are an important contributor to our environmental impact. environmental impacts associated with their construction and"
"operation. Our Supplier Sustainability Program focuses on developing our procurement process to support the purchase of environmentally responsible goods and services. For example in 2024, we transitioned from traditional currency bags During 2024, we continued our efforts to incorporate sustainability into how we build our corporate and retail spaces, made of virgin plastic to ones made with 50% recycled plastic, intended to reduce the carbon emissions related to this including through our"
"construction practices and our updated building standards — which integrate advanced design product. features, such as enhanced ventilation, lighting, temperature controls and eco-friendly materials. In 2024, our efforts led to 13 green building certifications globally, representing over 1 million square feet of real estate, and resulted in a reduction of We also seek to engage with our suppliers to aid them in achieving their own environmental objectives and meeting the both embodied carbon and"
"operational GHG emissions18 across retail and corporate spaces. Firm’s related procurement standards. To this end, in 2024, we launched a voluntary educational program for select suppliers to teach them how to calculate and report on their carbon emissions. In addition, the Firm’s new global headquarters at 270 Park Avenue in New York that opened in August, 2025 were designed to incorporate innovative features and technologies to help conserve energy, reduce GHG emissions, improve We also"
"provide suppliers with an evaluation program to help them improve their sustainability practices. Suppliers are indoor air quality and enhance the well-being of our employees. The new building is Manhattan’s tallest all-electric tower able to evaluate their performance against industry benchmarks and identify actions they can adopt to improve and sources New York state hydroelectric power, through a PPA, for its electricity needs. their practices. We also continue to pilot innovative solutions"
"for the built environment, focusing on technologies and materials that can For information on how we engage with our suppliers and our efforts to improve supplier diversity, refer to page 30. deliver both cost and emissions reductions. In 2024, these included flooring tiles made from natural materials with solid mineral cores intended to increased durability and installation efficiency, and asphalt additives from recycled plastic that Resource management aim to reduce the overall volume of"
"paving material required. We continue efforts to improve resource efficiency and minimize waste across our operations. Many of these efforts, such as addressing water and office paper use and reducing e-waste, have been integrated into our regular business activities. In 2024, our efforts helped avoid the use of approximately 16 million single-use products — including paper cups and plates and individually-packed condiments — by expanding availability of reusable alternatives and removing paper"
"cups from pantries; and diverting approximately 600 tons of e-waste from landfill, including through donations of used electronics to charitable organizations. 18 CO emissions reductions are estimated relative to the average energy use and embodied carbon of construction materials across spaces built prior to updated design and construction standards. 2 2024 Sustainability Report 2211 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting"
"stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Our climate-related metrics and targets Our climate-related metrics and targets help us understand the impact of our efforts and how we can support an energy-secure transition to a low-carbon economy. Our metrics and targets help inform our client engagement and provide insights to our stakeholders. In addition to the metrics and targets shown below, the Green objective of our $2.5T Sustainable Development Target"
"(“SDT”) is intended to support the development and scaling of climate initiatives and sustainable resource management. Learn more about our SDT on page 9. Energy Supply Financing Ratio ESFR Methodology Summary In 2024, we developed our own methodology to calculate our Energy Supply Financing Ratio (“ESFR”). The ESFR metric Instrument % Financing included Low-Carbon % High-Carbon % compares the amount of financing supporting low-carbon-intensive and zero-carbon (collectively referred to as “Low-"
"Carbon”) energy supply versus that supporting high-carbon-intensive and unabated fossil-based (collectively referred to Green bonds / loans Energy supply % as “High-Carbon”) energy supply. While this disclosure metric can provide more insight into the capital that we are 100% 0% providing, our business decisions are made independently on the basis of commercial considerations, and we are not Investment UoP Tax-oriented investments 100% restricting or otherwise aligning our financing to meet a"
"specific target for this ratio. financing Our Carbon Compass® outlines details of the design choices underlying JPMorganChase ESFR Calculation approach. 0% or 100% 100% or 0% Project financing 100% Our approach is the result of three key design choices: (depending on underlying asset) 1. Use consistent and well-reported internal and external data to support a more accurate categorization of financing we Low-Carbon credit 100% 0% provide to Low-Carbon and High-Carbon activities. 2. Apply an"
"investment-focused lens to our financing of energy supply activities, isolating the investment portion of our High-Carbon credit 0% 100% financing when it is not a dedicated use of proceeds (“UoP”) facility. GCP financing Investment % of Mixed credit19 total spending 3. Take a forward-looking view, reflecting how our clients are investing in building out future energy supply, beyond their current asset base. Low-Carbon % High-Carbon % Capital markets We believe these design choices are embedded"
"in our methodology, which aims to reflect how our financing relates to the (excl. green bonds) investments made by clients engaged in energy supply activities. The table to the right provides a summary of what this means in practice, including how each type of in-scope financing is allocated to the Low-Carbon and/or High-Carbon portions of the ratio, and where capital allocation percentages are applied to account for the investment-focused portion of general corporate purpose (“GCP”) financing."
"For more details on our approach, refer to our Carbon Compass®. 19 “Mixed” refers to clients engaged in a combination of low-carbon and high-carbon energy supply activities. For these clients, we allocate the financing we provide into the Low-Carbon (numerator) and High-Carbon (denominator) using their capital expenditure and assets under development. Refer to our Carbon Compass® for additional detail. 2024 Sustainability Report 2222 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a"
"transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Our portfolio-level carbon intensity targets The ESFR disclosure can provide insight into capital formation in the real economy, but it also has limitations. It is a disclosure metric, not a mechanism to drive energy transition. Banks operate in competitive markets and do not control the absolute or relative level of financing opportunities available for energy supply"
"or the amount of capital invested by To date, we have set nine portfolio-level carbon intensity targets (“carbon intensity targets”) for eight sectors of our clients relative to other capital allocation priorities. Energy transition is driven by a range of factors largely outside of an financing portfolio20: Oil & Gas, Electric Power, Auto Manufacturing, Aviation, Shipping, Iron & Steel, Cement and Aluminum. individual bank’s control, including the implementation of policy mechanisms,"
"technological advancements and changing Our targets are designed to help us track our clients’ decarbonization progress and inform how we can best support our consumer preferences. The ESFR also depends on our clients’ investment decisions and their ability to originate viable clients’ low-carbon transition objectives. Our targets are not intended to restrict our financing to any sector, but to inform low-carbon projects we can finance, subject to commercial considerations. The metric does not"
"constitute a direct proxy how we engage with our clients and continue to allocate capital in support of a transition to an energy-secure low-carbon for decarbonization activity happening in the economy, or for total energy supply investment dollars. Financing provided economy subject to commercial considerations and the conditions described below. by banks only reflects a portion of the total capital deployed by companies engaged in the supply of energy. We plan to continue to support our"
"clients in achieving their business objectives, including their efforts to responsibly reduce their We constructed our targets for 2030 as portfolio-level targets by sector, using output-based emissions intensity metrics emissions and diversify their energy sources over time. and aligned to the International Energy Agency’s Net Zero Emissions by 2050 scenario21. We set targets using our own independent assessment of what we determined to be reasonable and science-based, and what would serve the"
"best For the year ended December 31, 2024, our ESFR of 1.13x shows that for each dollar supporting High-Carbon energy supply, interests of our business and clients. We plan to continue to evaluate our targets and may make adjustments we deem we financed 1.13 dollars supporting Low-Carbon energy supply. The ratio reflects financing volumes of $36.4 billion for Low- appropriate in light of considerations including the latest climate science and technology, government and policy Carbon and $32.3"
"billion for High-Carbon energy supply, which constitute the numerator and denominator, respectively. developments, macroeconomic trends, commercial considerations and our clients’ business needs. Compared to 2023, our financing for both High-Carbon and Low-Carbon energy supply were higher, primarily driven by an For more information on our approach to setting our carbon intensity targets, refer to our Carbon Compass®. increase in our facilitation of capital markets activity. This trend reflects"
"a broader recovery in global capital markets across sectors, supported by lower interest rates and companies refinancing maturing debts. High-Carbon financing grew at a Progress toward our targets faster pace, with debt capital markets issuances for High-Carbon projects in key regions in which we operate outpacing that for Low-Carbon. The change in our reported ratio is generally consistent with a widely recognized market benchmarks of energy-supply financing ratios, which is a well-established"
"reference point for our stakeholders. While we have made progress toward some of our targets, we have not made progress on others to date, and we recognize that year-over-year fluctuations will occur. Our focus is on continuing to help our clients’ decarbonization efforts — We recognize that capital flows toward energy supply activities vary with commodity cycles and shifts in energy demand, addressing their financing and banking needs, while seeking long-term value creation for our"
"shareholders. and therefore the relative financing of low-carbon versus high-carbon energy supply will fluctuate over time. Our focus is on supporting our clients, to help promote global energy security, availability, affordability and accessibility. Progress toward our targets and our ability to achieve them is dependent on the pace of global decarbonization and other factors outside our control. As previously stated, many of these conditions — including supportive policy, grid infrastructure"
"and progress in decarbonizing high-emitting sectors — are not yet in place. The absence of these conditions, as well as other factors including commercial considerations, may hamper further progress toward our targets. As one example, rising energy demand from data centers driven by artificial intelligence is expected to influence our ability to meet our Electric Power target in the future. As we continue to support our clients through capital allocation and financing solutions, we recognize"
"that, in certain cases, supporting the decarbonization initiatives of some clients may result in an increase in the carbon intensity of our portfolios. This reflects the timing difference between financing and intensity reductions, as well as the long-term nature of many low- carbon transition projects. For example, when financing a client’s low-carbon transition project, our financing is reflected in the year the transaction occurs while the client’s intensity remains high; the associated"
"emissions reductions materialize over the long-term once projects are completed and operational. We will continue to support clients across sectors while balancing energy security needs, commercial considerations and other conditions with emissions reduction goals. The table on the next page summarizes our progress toward our targets as of December 31, 2024. Additional detail on our progress in each of our targets follows on page 25. 20 Our financing portfolio is defined to include all lending,"
"tax-oriented investments and capital markets activity. 21 Our targets are based on data and scenario projections available as of September 2023. Changes to the IEA NZE scenario, global emissions, available technologies, economic conditions or the quality and availability of data may result in changes to the projected emissions trajectories, and we may therefore update our baselines and targets, as appropriate. In 2024, we updated the baseline for our Shipping portfolio. 2024 Sustainability"
"Report 2233 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices DETAILS BASELINEi JPMORGANCHASE PROGRESS 2030 PORTFOLIO Portfolio carbon Portfolio carbon intensity as of Change in portfolio carbon TARGET Scope(s) included Unit of measurement Baseline year intensity baseline December 31, 2024 intensity from baselineii Scope 3 29.5 gCO / MJ 2019 45.9 30.6 -33.2%"
"(end use) 2 -36% from baseline Energy Mixiii -45.0% Scopes 1 and 2 gCO e / MJ 2019 4.9 4.0 -17.2% 2 from baseline Oil & Gas Operational 105.3 Scope 1 kgCO / MWh 2019 342.6 248.4 -27.5% 2 -69% from baseline Electric Power Scopes 1, 2 and 3 86.1 gCO e / km 2019 164.8 131.3 -20.3% Auto (tank-to-wheel) 2 -48% from baseline Manufacturing 625.0 Scope 1 (tank-to-wake) gCO / RTK 2021 972.6 777.3 -20.1% 2 -36% from baseline Aviation 10.9 8.4 Scope 1 (tank-to-wake) gCO / t-nm 2021 11.5 5.7% 2 (revisediv)"
"-23% from revised baseline Shipping tCO e / t 0.981 Scopes 1 and 2 2 2020 1.412 1.291 -8.6% crude steel -30% from baseline Iron & Steel kgCO e / t 460.0 Scopes 1 and 2 2 2020 639.3 619.6 -3.1% cementitious product -28% from baseline Cement tCO e / t 6.5 Scopes 1 and 2 2 2021 8.6 9.5 10.4% aluminum -24% from baseline Aluminum i. To calculate portfolio baseline carbon intensities, we use client carbon intensity data for the baseline year and exposure data from the following year, except for the"
"Aviation sector, where the baseline year and exposure year are the same (2021). ii. Percentage change may not calculate as shown due to rounding. iii. Due to the integrated nature of our Energy Mix target and its partial overlap with our existing Electric Power target, we will include our financing of zero-carbon power generation activities in both targets’ calculations. iv. Revised 2021 portfolio baseline for Shipping to 10.9 gCO / t-nm from previously disclosed 11.4 gCO / t-nm 2 2 2024"
"Sustainability Report 2244 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices ENERGY MIX SHIPPING As of December 31, 2024, the carbon intensity of our Energy Mix portfolio decreased by 33.2%, compared to the 2019 We have revised our 2021 baseline for our Shipping portfolio to 10.9 gCO /t-nm to account for improvements in data 2 baseline. Our progress mainly"
"reflects increased financing of zero- and low-carbon power generation as we seek to meet quality. As of December 31, 2024, the carbon intensity of our Shipping portfolio had increased by 5.7%, compared to the client demand and capitalize on business opportunities in energy transition. Progress toward the target will continue to 2021 revised baseline. While some of our clients made progress in reducing their emissions intensity, the small and depend on our clients’ demand for financing to expand"
"cleaner energy sources and adopt low-carbon solutions, as well as concentrated nature of our Shipping portfolio means individual financing decisions can have an outsized impact, making policy implementation that supports the buildout of zero- and low-carbon energy systems and their supply chains. overall trends less immediately reflective of underlying improvements. In addition, the increase was also driven by the limited availability of carbon intensity data for the sector, which led to more"
"clients in our portfolio being assigned a OIL & GAS OPERATIONAL conservative proxy value for carbon intensity. As of December 31, 2024, the carbon intensity of our Oil & Gas Operational portfolio had decreased by 17.2%, compared to the As this is a relatively new target, we continue to engage with clients and build our understanding of the sector’s 2019 baseline. This decrease was primarily driven by clients in our portfolio making progress toward their decarbonization decarbonization strategies"
"and constraints. We anticipate fluctuations in the portfolio’s carbon intensity will continue to goals as the industry continues to focus on operational efficiencies that can reduce the carbon intensity of production. occur as sector data availability and quality continue to evolve. We also recognize that progress in the decarbonization of the Shipping sector is largely influenced by international regulatory bodies that set the carbon intensity reduction targets ELECTRIC POWER for the sector,"
"that may not align with near- or medium-term trajectories under the IEA NZE. As of December 31, 2024, the carbon intensity of our Electric Power portfolio had decreased by 27.5%, compared to the IRON & STEEL 2019 baseline. This decrease was predominantly driven by clients reducing their carbon intensity by transitioning their generation mix toward lower emissions sources, as well as the Firm increasing financing to companies and projects with As of December 31, 2024, the carbon intensity of our"
"Iron & Steel portfolio had decreased by 8.6%, compared to the 2020 zero-carbon power generation, supported by rising client demand and favorable policy incentives. Our continued focus on baseline. This decrease was primarily driven by a reduction in our clients’ carbon intensity through increased use of electric helping accelerate capital deployment, especially through tax-oriented investments has helped move the carbon intensity arc furnaces and operational efficiencies, as the sector continues"
"to adopt emerging technologies. Significant, long-term of our portfolio closer to our target. However, rising global demand for reliable and affordable electricity may affect our and reduction in the carbon intensity of the sector relies partly on the deployment and scaling of decarbonization technologies, our clients’ ability to meet decarbonization targets. such as hydrogen-based production and carbon capture, utilization and storage (“CCUS”). AUTO MANUFACTURING CEMENT As of December 31, 2024,"
"the carbon intensity of our Auto Manufacturing portfolio had decreased by 20.3%, compared to As of December 31, 2024, the carbon intensity of our Cement portfolio has decreased by 3.1%, compared to the 2020 the 2019 baseline. This decrease was primarily driven by our clients improving their intensity due to increased production baseline. This decrease is mainly due to a reduction in our clients’ carbon intensity through increased use of alternative of hybrid and electric models — in response to"
"rising demand — and sector gains in the carbon efficiency of internal fuels and lower clinker ratios in cement production. Decarbonization of the Cement sector — and progress toward our combustion vehicles. However, the slowing growth rate of EV adoption suggests more efforts globally by the public and cement target — is heavily reliant on the deployment of breakthrough technologies, namely CCUS, to address emissions private sectors will be required to support the sector’s decarbonization by"
"deploying and scaling technologies across the that cannot be eliminated through fuel or material substitution alone. value chain — especially in areas such as battery manufacturing and EV charging. ALUMINUM AVIATION As of December 31, 2024, the carbon intensity of our Aluminum portfolio has increased by 10.4%, compared to the 2021 As of December 31, 2024, the carbon intensity of our Aviation portfolio had decreased by 20.1%, compared to the 2021 baseline. This increase is primarily driven by the"
"concentrated nature of our portfolio and growing financing needs of clients baseline. This decrease was primarily driven by changes in our exposure to the sector, including increased financing to operating in emerging market countries, where emissions intensities tend to be higher. Given the sector’s dependence on clients with lower-carbon intensities. The decrease was also driven by our clients improving their carbon intensity, largely power, our clients’ decarbonization efforts are closely"
"tied to the carbon intensity of the electricity grids on which they rely. through fleet modernization and operational efficiencies, as the sector adopts more efficient aircraft technologies. Acknowledging the importance of our continued support to clients in emerging markets, we expect our portfolio intensity to Progress toward our target will continue to depend on key developments in the real economy, including changes in fluctuate in the coming years as the world decarbonizes power grids. In"
"addition, as this is a relatively new target, we consumer behavior as well as the increase in production of sustainable aviation fuels, supported by policies that encourage continue to engage with clients and build our understanding of the sector’s decarbonization strategies and constraints. value chain buildout and offtake agreements. 2024 Sustainability Report 2255 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities,"
"customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Measuring our absolute financed Absolute financed and facilitated emissions as of December 31, 2024 and facilitated emissions ABSOLUTE FINANCED AND FACILITATED ECONOMIC INTENSITY DATA SCOPE(S) EMISSIONS (million tCO e)iv, v (per US$1 million of lending/capital markets)i Measuring and reporting our financed and facilitated emissions on an SECTOR 2 QUALITY SCORES absolute basis is an area of interest for our stakeholders and can be"
"INCLUDED For committed lending For capital markets For committed lending For capital markets (1–5)ii useful in understanding the impact of our emission reduction efforts. (financed emissions) (facilitated emissions) (financed emissions) (facilitated emissions) As such, we have taken steps to quantify and disclose absolute Scope 3 financed and facilitated emissions for sectors of our financing portfolio 84.4 42.9 1,876.2 2,961.8 3.1 (end use) Energy Mixiii for which we have set carbon intensity"
"targets. Our methodology for calculating absolute financed and facilitated Scopes 1 and 2 4.3 2.9 212.2 404.1 3.2 emissions builds on international standards and guidance while also Oil & Gas Operational aiming to align with the principles and methodology underlying our sector-specific carbon intensity targets. We tailored our approach to Scope 1 21.1 6.3 515.3 438.8 3.1 focus on what we consider to be the most important sources of Electric Power emissions for each sector, accounting for our"
"financing exposure to each of our clients in those sectors. To address one of the most Scopes 1, 2 and 3 2.2 1.0 511.6 457.0 3.1 significant challenges of measuring absolute financed and facilitated Auto Manufacturing (tank-to-wheel) emissions, we also seek to minimize the distortion that may result from Scope 1 the effect of short-term market volatility on client valuations. 1.2 0.6 762.3 766.6 3.0 We believe this approach calculates absolute financed and facilitated Aviation (tank-to-wake)"
"emissions figures that more closely correlate with real-world Scope 1 emissions performance of clients in our applicable sector portfolios. 0.2 0.1 395.5 306.4 2.6 (tank-to-wake) Shipping We plan to continue to monitor evolving best practices on absolute financed and facilitated emissions measurement to inform our Scopes 1 and 2 3.4 1.0 1,592.6 1,504.3 1.2 methodology. While we believe that our approach correlates with real- Iron & Steel world emissions performance, we also disclose a version of"
"this metric aligned to PCAF within the appendix section of this report. Scopes 1 and 2 1.4 0.3 1,310.5 1,113.3 1.4 For more information on our approach, refer to our Carbon Compass®. Cement Scopes 1 and 2 0.4 0.6 706.0 1,804.1 3.0 Aluminum i. For purposes of calculating financed emissions, the amount of financing we have provided to a client includes lending, tax oriented investments and capital markets activity, which matches our approach for our sector- specific intensity targets. For lending"
"we use the 12-month monthly average balance of committed financing. For tax-oriented investments, we use the 12-month monthly average outstanding balance. For capital markets activity, we use 100% attribution of our share of the transaction size and include our share of transactions on a 3-year rolling average basis. Refer to our Carbon Compass® to learn more. ii. Data quality scores are assigned depending on the quality of data available for each client, with 1 representing highest quality and"
"5 representing lowest quality. We calculate and report a weighted average data quality score for each sector based on the financing provided to each client relative to our total financing to the sector. Refer to our Carbon Compass® to learn more. iii. Due to the integrated nature of our Energy Mix target and its partial overlap with our existing Electric Power target, we will include our financing of zero-carbon power generation activities in both targets’ calculations. iv. “Absolute financed"
"emissions” are defined as the total GHG emissions of an asset class or portfolio and is calculated as committed exposure divided by company’s value multiplied by company emissions. For the company’s value, we use enterprise value including cash (“EVIC”). When EVIC is unavailable, we use the sum of total company equity and debt as found on the company’s balance sheet. If equity value is negative, it is treated as zero. v. “Absolute facilitated emissions” are defined as the total GHG emissions"
"associated with capital markets activity facilitated by a financial institution and is calculated as total amount raised in the capital market transaction multiplied by the volume attributed to the financial institution (based on its participation), divided by EVIC. When EVIC is unavailable, we use the sum of total company equity and debt as found on the company’s balance sheet. If equity value is negative, it is treated as zero. 2024 Sustainability Report 2266 Introduction Supporting secure and"
"affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Data challenges Improving the quality, timeliness and availability of data is important for properly calculating our portfolios’ carbon intensities and measuring our absolute financed and facilitated emissions. This section summarizes the key points on data considerations and ongoing challenges that we face. MEASUREMENT VS. ESTIMATION"
"COMPARABLE METHODOLOGIES There are well-known challenges with the quality and reliability of emissions data in many sectors. This means we While we seek to design and implement robust proxies that minimize the impact on our estimates when preferred data sometimes rely on estimated versus directly measured emissions data. For example, in the Oil & Gas sector, there are becomes available, there are cases where this may not be achievable. For example, in our Electric Power portfolio, a small"
"inconsistencies in the measurement, management and reporting of data across companies, as well as lack of reliable and proportion of companies with no available data are assigned a default carbon intensity derived from a relatively standardized techniques for measurement in certain areas, such as methane emissions. As a result, reported methane conservative proxy that assumes a fuel mix that is equal parts coal and natural gas. Due to the large differences between the emissions rely on"
"estimation methods that are less accurate than direct measurement methods. We are working with emissions intensities of the different fuel types, there could be significant differences between estimates and actual data. industry partners to help make direct measurement technologies the preferred method of tracking and reporting methane Similarly, in our Shipping portfolio, limited availability of carbon intensity data for some of our clients requires the use of emissions. More generally,"
"emerging best practices, including companies reporting to organizations that provide data conservative proxy values that may not reflect their actual emissions performance, contributing to variability in our aggregation services and soliciting assurance for reported GHG emissions data, will help improve emission-related data reported portfolio-level carbon intensity. We plan to continue to work with our clients and other stakeholders to improve quality and reliability. To know more about our"
"efforts toward helping improve availability and accuracy of methane overall quality and availability of data. We review our data sourcing choices to assess whether better alternatives have emissions data, refer to page 17. become available. For additional detail on proxy methodologies for each sector, refer to our Carbon Compass®. DATA LAG LACK OF DATA ON EMERGING DECARBONIZATION TECHNOLOGIES Another challenge we face is with the timely availability of data inputs to calculate carbon intensity."
"In the Auto Emerging technologies such as hydrogen, biofuels, and carbon capture, use and storage, will play a key role in helping Manufacturing sector, for example, availability of certain data from regulatory sources can be significantly delayed — clients decarbonize. However, data availability in these areas remains a significant challenge. Innovative solutions continue sometimes up to two to three years. In such cases, we seek to address gaps using a defined data waterfall approach that to"
"emerge but lack the scale today that is necessary to meaningfully impact our portfolio-level emissions intensity. may include company-disclosed figures, provided they are verified and prepared in line with recognized protocols. We recognize that data in this space is evolving, and we plan to consider viable data solutions as they become available. Failing that, we use proxy values. As climate- and sustainability-focused disclosure becomes more standardized, we expect lags — especially on"
"company-reported data — to reduce gradually. 2024 Sustainability Report 2277 Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Fueling business growth and entrepreneurship | Strengthening financial health and wealth creation | Catalyzing community development | Human capital 2024 Sustainability Report"
"28 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Expanding access to capital From basic banking needs like checking, savings and credit cards to more complex services like payments products, At JPMorganChase, we recognize that stronger communities are good for business. The Firm grows alongside lending and cash management, we support entrepreneurs and"
"their businesses at every stage of growth. communities as neighborhoods thrive, small businesses expand and more residents achieve financial security. This is why we seek to help more people access economic opportunity. We focus on the areas where we believe Strategies, services and solutions our resources and expertise can make an impact, including efforts to help fuel business growth and JPMorganChase serves small business owners in the contiguous U.S., helping to empower them to start, run"
"and grow their entrepreneurship, strengthen financial health and wealth creation, catalyze community development, build enterprises. In 2024, Business Banking provided $4.5 billion in loans and lines of credit in the U.S. careers and skills and support an energy-secure low-carbon future (refer to page 14). This includes aiming to increase access to rewarding careers and opportunities within our workforce and beyond. Our efforts to support Additionally, the Firm’s Commercial Banking (“CB”) team"
"supports middle market clients through every stage of growth communities in these areas include leveraging our products, services, business expertise, philanthropic capital, with industry expertise and tailored financial solutions, including digital banking and payments, credit and financing, data-driven insights and policy solutions. In the end, we believe helping to increase opportunities for individuals international banking, advisory services and more. In 2024, CB extended approximately $32"
"billion in new loans, as they pursue their dreams is good for our employees, customers, clients, shareholders, our business and the refinancing and renewals to middle market clients. communities we serve. Philanthropy Community Development Financial Institutions (“CDFIs”) work to drive economic growth and increase job opportunities by expanding access to capital and providing financial services to small businesses. In communities where traditional lending options may be limited, CDFIs provide"
"tailored financial products to help individuals to start businesses and expand operations. In 2024, the Firm committed $2.3 million to the Community Reinvestment Fund (the “Fund”), a nonprofit that partners with CDFIs and community lenders, to expand access to capital and deepen the Fund’s support for small businesses through its Fueling business growth technology suite. The Firm’s philanthropic capital helped to build the Fund’s pipeline of CDFIs, as well as to leverage data- driven insights to"
"offer more individualized support for its portfolio companies. The Firm also committed approximately $5 million in 2024 to CDFIs in the U.K. to support technology and leadership and entrepreneurship development, aiming to help these CDFIs finance and grow more small businesses. This support builds on our ongoing efforts to aid growth in the entrepreneurial ecosystem in the U.K., including approximately $59 billion over five years in credit and capital to local financial institutions. Research"
"and policy We believe that small and mid-sized businesses are the backbone of the U.S. economy. Their success strengthens communities by creating new jobs and driving local economic growth. We support small- and mid-sized businesses at Through the JPMorganChase Institute, we support research to help decision makers understand the key challenges small every stage of growth by offering expertise, connections and opportunities. In the U.S., the Firm serves approximately business owners face in"
"growing and scaling their businesses. In 2024, the Institute released research on how small 7 million small business customers22 and more than 32,000 middle market clients23. In 2024, we committed more than businesses rarely scale to annual revenues of $1 million, an often cited milestone for business survival and economic impact. $78 million in philanthropic capital to help small businesses overcome barriers to growth. 22 Small businesses are defined as a unique business or legal entity that"
"has financial ownership or decision-making power with respect to accounts within CCB. 23 Middle market clients include startups, small and mid-sized companies, local governments, municipalities and nonprofits. 2024 Sustainability Report 29 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Creating opportunities for business growth We aspire to provide small"
"businesses with access to networks and mentorship necessary for sustained growth, resilience and knowledge-sharing. We provide businesses with access to customers and networks that help enable growth, such as by increasing Strategies, services and solutions opportunities to participate in public and private procurement. We continue to support entrepreneurs through key initiatives such as our Coaching for Impact program. The program Strategies, services and solutions helps business owners grow"
"their businesses through one-on-one consulting and executive coaching, accessible on-demand education and banking solutions. Senior business consultants provide coaching and host educational events, JPMorganChase strives to build strong business relationships, including with our suppliers. We source a broad and diverse community workshops, and business training seminars. Since launching the Coaching for Impact program in late 2020, we range of suppliers and engage those that provide products and"
"services to meet our needs as we serve our clients, have hired more than 80 local senior business consultants across 38 cities. In 2024, senior business consultants have customers, communities and employees. We take an inclusive approach, considering larger vendors and also small and coached more than 6,700 small businesses in communities across the U.S. We also added more than 190 business bankers diverse businesses by utilizing the strength of our procurement organization to provide"
"opportunities for these businesses who support our clients through our vast branch network. to be considered for engagements.24 In 2024, JPMorganChase had a total procurement spend of approximately $23 billion, with approximately $2.5 billion spent with Tier 1 small and/or diverse suppliers and $1.2 billion with Tier 2 small and/or Philanthropy diverse suppliers.25 Preparing for a business ownership transition is an important part of every business owner’s journey. A successful The Corporate"
"Alliance for Supplier Capital, launched by JPMorganChase, aims to help small businesses overcome transition keeps businesses operating in communities, preserves jobs, broadens ownership and creates wealth-building financial barriers in meeting industry requirements, such as for cybersecurity and insurance. With the Firm’s initial opportunities for current and new owners. At JPMorganChase, we are working to make it easier for business owners of $15 million donation and matching contributions from"
"partners, the program, run by the Local Initiatives Support different sizes and stages to explore how an ownership transition can best meet their financial and strategic goals. In 2024, Corporation, offers funding ranging from $25,000 to $500,000 with flexible repayment terms. These funds cover essential we committed more than $2 million to support employee ownership initiatives to help business owners, financial advisors business costs to help small companies to secure and fulfill corporate"
"procurement contracts. Between 2022 and 202326, and other professional services providers access information about employee ownership. the 23 businesses that received funding collectively reported an approximately 40% increase in revenue and an Research and policy approximately 41% increase in new full-time jobs27. The JPMorganChase Institute released research on how economic cycles shape entrepreneurial ventures to help Philanthropy policymakers better understand the relationship between"
"entrepreneurial activity and future economic growth. JPMorganChase helps small business owners by committing grants to nonprofit organizations that help businesses Additionally, the JPMorganChase PolicyCenter advocates for policies at the federal and state level that support small sustain their customer base, grow market share and access corporate and government contracts. The goal of this work is business resilience. to help small businesses increase revenue, create jobs and support their"
"communities. As part of a multi-year grant, the Firm committed $4.5 million in 2024 to Ascend, a cohort-based program out of the Consulting & Business Development Center at University of Washington’s Foster School of Business, that helps accelerate the growth of small- to medium-sized supplier companies looking to scale beyond $10 million in annual revenue. Ascend reported that the average revenue growth for Ascend National Cohort businesses was 37.5% from the time they applied for the program."
"Additionally, Ascend reported that 35% of these businesses expanded into a new industry market and 15% expanded into a new geographic market. 24 The Firm’s Supplier Diversity Program takes a broad lens that encompasses supporting all the Firm’s current and prospective suppliers, including, without limitation, small businesses and those that are owned and operated by women, ethnic minorities, military veterans, people with disabilities and members of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer"
"plus (“LGBTQ+”) community. Our supplier diversity program does not provide preferences for diverse businesses; rather, it provides participants with visibility and support with respect to the Firm’s requirements and opportunities for those businesses to be considered for engagements. 25 Tier 1 supplier spend refers to the amount of spend, or procurement dollars, that JPMorganChase spends directly with third parties that provide goods and services in support of its business operations. Tier 2"
"supplier spend refers to the amount of spend, or procurement dollars, that JPMorganChase’s suppliers spend with their Tier 1 suppliers. 26 There is a one-year data lag for this program as companies report their revenues after tax filing cycles are complete. 27 Local Initiatives Support Corporation receives self-reported data regarding jobs and revenue growth from participating businesses. 2024 Sustainability Report 30 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a"
"low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Strengthening financial health and wealth creation We believe that sound financial health is the foundation for strong and resilient households, communities and economies. We are using our reach and resources to help consumers across urban and rural areas — including those in low- and moderate- income (“LMI”) communities — access the financial products and services that help them"
"manage their day-to-day financial lives, save for the future, build credit and wealth, and create economic mobility for themselves and their families. Access to mainstream financial services We also seek to provide additional resources to local communities. For example, we have opened 19 community center branches and hired more than 150 community managers across the U.S since 2019. These community center branches are designed to serve as hubs for the community, providing space for financial"
"health workshops, skills development courses, We seek to meet customers’ financial needs by offering solutions and experiences, such as expanding access to small business pop-ups, and events hosted by local community organizations and partners. By 2030, we plan to expand banking, developing new products and providing financial education to improve economic opportunity. our community coverage to the 48 contiguous states, including hiring additional community managers. Our community Strategies,"
"services and solutions managers are responsible for building and nurturing relationships with customers, key community leaders, nonprofit organizations and small businesses at the neighborhood level. Since its launch in 2019, we have opened more than 2.4 million Chase Secure BankingSM accounts to help people access mainstream banking. Chase Secure BankingSM accounts are low-cost, Bank On28 certified, have no overdraft fees and Philanthropy provide users with the benefits of being a customer,"
"such as access to thousands of fee-free ATMs, free money orders, To promote access to mainstream financial services with philanthropic capital, JPMorganChase committed $1.9 million to cashier’s checks and our mobile app, as well as support from bankers in person or by phone. We continue to enhance support the launch of MSFCP.org. MSFCP.org builds on the success of the Money Smart Financial Coaching Program Chase Secure BankingSM, and in 2024, we launched a monthly service fee waiver based on"
"qualifying deposits. Our Secure (“MSFCP”), combining financial coaching and education into a post-secondary course to help students improve their Banking customers report saving an average of more than $60 per month in fees compared to experiences with alternative financial health, and in some cases, earn course credit with their school by completing the program. According to an financial services29. independent evaluation of MSFCP financial coaching participants, 35% saved an average of $2,016"
"over a three- Our bank branches are also a key part of our efforts to expand access to banking services. Our local employees work to consecutive-month period. Over the full evaluation period of two years, 27% of participants reduced their debt by an understand their clients’ needs and understand local challenges and how to address them. Since 2018, we have opened average of $2,263. JPMorganChase is seeking to enhance the impact of the course — which aims to reach 1,500 students more than 940 new"
"branches, expanding from 23 to 48 states. We are the only U.S. bank with branches in all 48 across the U.S. — by introducing local community managers as guest lecturers in the classroom alongside professors, contiguous states. reinforcing financial education lessons. By adding hundreds of new branches in smaller cities and towns, we are seeking to make affordable banking accessible to more customers across the U.S. For example, in August 2024, the Firm announced plans to expand access to"
"consumer, business and community banking services for customers across Iowa. The expansion, which includes 25 new branches and over 150 new jobs by 2030, is part of our broader efforts toward serving 50% of the population in each of the 48 contiguous states within an accessible drive time. 28 The National Bank On Standards are a set of guidelines and best practices designed to improve access to safe and affordable banking services for underserved communities developed by the Cities for Financial"
"Empowerment Fund. 29 The average monthly fees saved amount is based on a survey conducted in September and October 2024, where 1,512 Chase Secure customers were asked “With your Chase Secure Banking account, how much money do you think you’re saving on fees in an average or typical month compared to the amount you were spending on fees before you had the account?” These customers reported saving an average of more than $60 per month on fees for money orders, check cashing, US remittances,"
"prepaid debit cards and bill paying services — if annualized, approximately $720 per year. 2024 Sustainability Report 31 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Improving financial stability and resilience Building and protecting wealth We aim to help all of our customers, including those in LMI and underserved communities, manage their day-to-day"
"While financial stability and resilience help individuals manage the present, long-term prosperity hinges on building and financial lives with ease and weather unexpected shocks. Through products, tools and resources, we help our customers protecting wealth. We aim to provide timely insights and deliver a range of client solutions to help consumers build and access and improve their credit and build savings. sustain wealth by meeting their long-term financial goals, investing for the future and"
"protecting their assets. In particular, we are advancing solutions that seek to improve workplace financial wellness and protect consumers from Strategies, services and solutions fraud and scams. The Firm’s Chase Freedom RiseSM Card is designed for new-to-credit individuals, offering an entry point into responsible Strategies, services and solutions credit usage. Our bankers support individuals with tailored advice when they are applying in branch, along with providing access to digital tools"
"and resources to help guide them toward building credit and financial health. JPMorganChase is advancing holistic efforts to improve the financial health outcomes of our employees, but also externally for employers, small businesses owners, entrepreneurs and communities across the U.S. In the U.S., we offer a variety of JPMorganChase offers our complimentary digital credit monitoring tool, Credit Journey®30, which includes access to a programs to our employees, including unlimited one-on-one"
"financial coaching sessions and access to programs focused personalized, credit-building plan to help users understand and improve their credit scores through step-by-step-guidance. on preparing for the costs of higher education. Refer to page 38 for more information on our financial health offerings for Through 2024, more than 3.4 million users started a plan; those who successfully completed a plan experienced an average our employees. Additionally, the Firm is increasing access to"
"homeownership and supporting the financial health of credit score increase of 30 points or more. entrepreneurs and small business owners to enable consumers to build long-term wealth. As part of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency’s Project REACh, JPMorganChase is working across the public, JPMorganChase is also applying a variety of the Firm’s resources — from our industry insights and products to our grant private and nonprofit sectors to explore alternative credit assessment methods"
"beyond a traditional credit score that may and impact finance capital — to efforts aimed at helping protect consumers from fraud and scams. In addition to investing help expand access to credit for customers with no credit history. We were the first participating institution to launch an billions in fraud and scam prevention, the Firm provides educational resources and hosts hundreds of workshops focused initiative to provide credit to customers with no credit history based on cash flow"
"underwriting that leverages customer on fraud and scam prevention at our branches every year. These workshops are open to the public and aim to educate deposit data. From 2021 to year-end 2024, we have approved credit cards for more than 63,000 new-to-credit customers. communities about the latest scam tactics and protective measures. Philanthropy The Firm is a founding member of The Aspen Institute’s National Task Force on Fraud & Scam Prevention, applying lessons In 2024, we committed $3.5"
"million to support the growth of SaverLife, a nonprofit leveraging technology to help advance learned from our industry leadership and working with actors across the private, public and nonprofit sectors to help consumer financial health. SaverLife’s platform designs, tests and scales personalized financial health content and develop a nation-wide strategy aimed at helping prevent fraud and scams, and protecting Americans. behaviorally informed savings innovations. SaverLife reported that as of"
"December 31, 2024, it has grown to serve over Philanthropy 700,000 LMI consumers, enabling 315,000 consumers to increase savings by $2,500 on average. Through our grant, SaverLife plans to leverage artificial intelligence (“AI”) and data analytics to become a holistic financial health navigator, To support individuals in achieving their financial goals, building stronger credit scores and growing their wealth, designing personalized experiences and innovative product features to help optimize"
"decision-making and improve JPMorgan Chase committed $1 million in 2024 to the Preservation of Affordable Housing (“POAH”) to help launch their financial health outcomes for consumers. Providing Opportunities for Wellbeing and Equity for Renters (“POWER”) initiative. POWER is designed to provide approximately 7,000 residents across POAH’s affordable housing communities with comprehensive financial well-being We also committed $7 million to support ideas42, a behavioral design nonprofit that"
"designs, develops and tests products services, helping them build assets and achieve long-term economic mobility. Additionally, in 2024, the Firm committed and services that aim to help two million consumers with sub- and near-prime credit scores protect and improve their credit. $7 million to Commonwealth to launch Benefits for the Future, which aims to pilot and scale innovative workplace benefits Research and policy with employers and benefits providers across the U.S. to improve the"
"financial health of 2.5 million low-wage workers. The JPMorganChase Institute focuses on several topics related to financial resilience to help policymakers and business Research and policy leaders make better, data-driven decisions about the economy. In 2024, the Institute released research on how households In 2024, the JPMorganChase Institute published research on emerging trends in household wealth and investing dynamics, are faring, including research on how vulnerable Americans are to"
"unexpected expenses and research on how household analyzing how investing patterns and demographics can impact household financial health. balances have evolved since the pandemic. Additionally, the JPMorganChase PolicyCenter advocates for policies at the federal and state level to support financial resilience, including for improvements to the Family Self Sufficiency Program that helps families living in subsidized housing increase their earnings and build assets. 30 Credit Journey is only"
"available to U.S. residents and residents of U.S. territories or possessions that have valid verification documents. Users do not have to be a JPMorganChase customer to enroll in Credit Journey. 2024 Sustainability Report 32 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Catalyzing community development We believe that a strong economy starts with strong"
"communities. We help support communities by financing the development of affordable housing, working to expanding access to homeownership and providing access to capital for vital institutions such as hospitals, schools and nonprofits. This support is intended to further local economic growth and help communities thrive. Housing affordability Securing the necessary down payment and closing costs remains a significant challenge for many new homeowners, especially in a higher interest rate"
"environment. The Firm offers low down payment financing options requiring as little as 3% down. The Chase Homebuyer Grant, offering up to $5,000, is available in more than 23,000 census tracts across the Safe, reliable and affordable housing is the foundation of thriving communities, and the need for it persists. U.S. In 2024, we provided approximately 8,600 Chase Homebuyer Grants to customers, totaling $46 million. In addition to The Firm aims to help grow and preserve the supply of quality,"
"affordable housing that meets the needs of our communities our proprietary grants, we have also connected customers to external state and local housing assistance programs to through a variety of tools and capital solutions. We participate in federal programs that incentivize investment in housing leverage their funding, totaling $17.5 million. and are using our knowledge and expertise to help create new solutions that will help meet this important need. The Firm has invested in our people and"
"external relationships to enhance our presence in communities. We have more Strategies, services and solutions than 1,300 home lending advisors who serve customers and communities across our branch network in the U.S. Our correspondent channel provides liquidity to correspondent lenders and other banks to support homeownership In 2024, the Firm extended more than $6 billion in debt and equity to help create and preserve over 45,000 affordable through delegated and non-delegated programs that"
"served approximately 37,000 customers in 2024, totaling rental housing units. This includes participation in federal programs such as the Low Income Housing Tax Credit (“LIHTC”) approximately $14.6 billion in funded volume. and Historic Tax Credit (“HTC”) that are designed to help incentivize investment in affordable housing. Philanthropy Through our Workforce Housing Solutions group, the Firm is using our knowledge and expertise to create financing structures and solutions that help catalyze"
"housing development. Created in 2023, the group works to fill financing gaps In 2024, the Firm committed more than $98 million in philanthropic capital to help address homeowner affordability and between affordable housing for LMI families funded with LIHTC investments and unrestricted market-rate housing. supply challenges. We use philanthropic capital as a tool to support innovative, national and place-based solutions. Our philanthropic support helps nonprofits test and scale housing solutions"
"that aim to strengthen communities and foster Homeownership is a vital pathway to building wealth and providing stability in communities. The Firm offers a economic growth. For example, the Firm committed $20 million in philanthropic capital to support access to comprehensive range of mortgage products and programs to support customers across the economic spectrum in homeownership opportunities across the U.S., as well as nearly $8 million in support of addressing the problem of achieving their"
"financial goals. Our efforts are focused on addressing the needs of existing and future homebuyers and residential vacancy in Baltimore. revitalizing communities across the U.S. Research and policy Strategies, services and solutions We leverage our proprietary data, expertise and experience working in communities to develop timely research and policy The Firm works to increase homeownership opportunities across a broad existing and potential customer base, including recommendations to help"
"advance solutions to key housing issues. In 2024, the JPMorganChase PolicyCenter released a in communities that have historically faced barriers to homeownership, by providing homebuying resources and greater brief outlining key strategies to address persistent residential vacancy, abandonment and disrepair that drew on insights access to credit. In 2024, we met the home financing needs of more than 71,000 customers, and 72% of those funded loans from our philanthropic work in Baltimore. We also"
"brought together housing policy, finance and development experts to were to LMI and minority customers and customers in LMI and minority communities31. discuss solutions to stabilize housing supply in the U.S. 31 Source: 2024 Home Mortgage Disclosure Act 2024 Sustainability Report 33 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Support for financial"
"intermediaries and vital institutions Financial institutions and intermediaries The Firm serves a broad ecosystem of financial institutions that provide essential services and are vital to a healthy Our work with financial intermediaries and vital institutions — including state and local governments, hospitals, economy. We provide financing and banking services to U.S. banks, including community and microbanks. Additionally, we universities and schools, nonprofits, housing authorities, public"
"utilities and development finance institutions — helps to provide CDFIs with traditional financing, depository products, resources, expertise and philanthropic capital to help them support the stability, health and vibrancy of our communities. In 2024, we supported financial intermediaries and vital advance their missions and provide more small business loans, mortgages and financial education to communities. institutions with expertise, connections and approximately $50 billion32 in financing"
"and facilitating. Global public entities Strategies, services and solutions Outside of the U.S., the Firm provides public sector clients with financing, risk management, treasury and advisory services U.S. government entities to help them deliver for their constituents and the public good. We serve governments, central banks, public pension The Firm is the only bank that can accept government deposits in all 50 U.S. states and Washington, D.C. In 2024, we funds, sovereign wealth funds,"
"multilateral and public sector entities. We work with national governments across six extended more than $1 billion in credit to state and local governments and provided services and expertise including continents and have a relationship with central banks around the world across developed and emerging economies. treasury solutions, payments and credit, cybersecurity guidance and fraud protection. Our Public Finance group offers Additionally, our Sovereign Advisory group provides credit ratings"
"advisory services to help bolster countries’ financial solutions including capital raising, liquidity management and direct lending to support essential services and creditworthiness, helping optimize access to capital. This team has supported more than 45 sovereigns in positioning and infrastructure projects. In 2024, we provided more than $37 billion in capital markets financing and more than $8 billion in defending their public ratings. credit to public entities across energy, healthcare,"
"higher education, housing, municipalities and transportation systems. Development Finance Institution (“DFI”) Healthcare, higher education and not-for-profit institutions The J.P. Morgan DFI team uses its methodology to assess the development impact of the Firm’s existing transactions and We have a history of providing banking expertise, customized financial solutions and insights to organizations that aim to acting as a Development Finance Structuring Agent (“DFSA”) to help corporate and"
"sovereign entities communicate their serve our communities’ health, vibrancy and well-being. In 2024, CB extended more than $2 billion33 in financing to clients development impact and attract new investors. In 2024, DFI assessed $129 billion of transactions to support development in these sectors. Our capital and solutions help healthcare institutions deliver quality, affordable and accessible care to impact and served as a DFSA for 22 client engagements with a total notional value of $5.6"
"billion. Refer to the J.P. Morgan local communities; higher education institutions enhance education and skills training; and not-for-profit institutions DFI 2024 Annual Report for more information. advance their missions by growing their capacity and expanding access to essential services. New Markets Tax Credit (“NMTC”) The NMTC program incentivizes investment in institutions that help increase access to medical services, healthy foods, community spaces and job opportunities and training. In"
"2024, we provided more than $577 million in NMTC qualified equity financing to support the development of community facilities and small businesses, which is expected to create or retain more than 3,600 permanent jobs. 32 Financing to government, healthcare, higher education and not-for-profit clients is also captured in the Fueling business growth and entrepreneurship figure for middle market clients. 33 Inclusive of new, renewed and refinanced facilities. 2024 Sustainability Report 34"
"Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Human capital At JPMorganChase, our long-term growth and success depends on our ability to identify, attract, develop, retain and engage talented employees. We build the future workforce by focusing on empowering career growth, fostering inclusivity and developing talent potential. We recognize that a business"
"strategy cannot exist without a talent strategy. We strive to create a market competitive advantage by enabling employees to shape and grow their careers with transparency, supporting managers to foster excellence within their teams and delivering workplace experiences that boost engagement and allow people to do their best work. Outside the Firm, we support policies and organizations that create career pathways by improving education and workforce systems. We commit philanthropic support to"
"help organizations build partnerships with local school systems, post-secondary institutions, education and workforce development agencies and employers. We continue to support policies that benefit the workforce in the communities we serve. Attracting the best talent and uplifting community talent Removing barriers to employment We seek to increase our talent pipeline by recruiting from a broad set of channels and industries and by engaging We cast a wide net to attract qualified candidates"
"across all roles and career levels to serve the varied needs of our clients individuals with diverse skills, backgrounds and experiences. For example, approximately 80% of jobs posted for and customers. We strive to provide both external candidates and internal employees who are seeking a different role with experienced hires in the U.S. did not require a bachelor’s degree, focusing on skills over educational degrees. As part of the challenging and stimulating career opportunities. We extend our"
"recruitment channels to attract the best talent by tapping Firm’s inclusive hiring strategy, we have worked to remove barriers to employment such as through the ReEntry Program, into a broader pool of candidates, as well as participating and investing in various talent initiatives across the globe. virtual call centers and military hiring programs. Early career talent Since 2013, the JPMorganChase ReEntry Program has reintegrated professionals into the workforce across all regions where we have"
"employees. The program offers experienced professionals who have taken an extended career break We believe in supporting students and early-career talent as they embark on their professional journeys and grow into support and resources to relaunch their careers. Through comprehensive coaching, ReEntry fellows receive guidance on future leaders. Through our Analyst and Associate hiring programs and our Emerging Talent programs, we help early- professional identity, success mindset, networking and"
"work-life balance to help increase their chances of securing career talent to consider and explore long-term career possibilities and develop life and professional skills for success in permanent positions in the corporate world. the workplace. Our virtual call center (“VCC”) program, designed to provide high-value careers in our communities and advance long-term The Analyst and Associate programs provide qualified graduates who have earned undergraduate and graduate degrees growth, expanded"
"into Atlanta, Georgia in 2024. The Atlanta VCC is the Firm’s third in the U.S. and the first with a bilingual with full-time, hands-on work experience, support for their growth and development and access to mentorship and employee base, following earlier launches in Detroit and Baltimore. Our VCC program has created more than 200 jobs networking opportunities. Our Emerging Talent programs are designed to provide a broad range of candidates with across the U.S., offering competitive pay, benefits"
"and career advancement opportunities. opportunities to strengthen their skill sets, expand their networks and explore their career interests further, regardless of JPMorganChase is a co-founder of the Veteran Jobs Mission, a coalition of over 300 companies with a shared purpose of their work experience and/or educational background. These programs include apprenticeships, pre-internships and hiring talent from the U.S. military community. At the Firm, we have hired approximately 20,000 veterans"
"since the internship programs that offer high school or secondary school students with career opportunities at JPMorganChase, inception of the coalition in 2011. Our Military Pathways Development Program provides veterans with resources, training such as through one-day immersive seminars to four-year apprenticeships. For example, in our UK Apprenticeship and mentorship through two one-year rotational positions, designed to position them for leadership opportunities at the Program, apprentices"
"work four days a week and spend one day working toward a bachelor’s degree or other relevant Firm, accelerate their development and provide employment opportunities within our various lines of business. qualification. We also work with organizations like Year Up and CareerWise New York to support quality talent in the community and enhance our own talent pipeline through hands-on training. 2024 Sustainability Report 35 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a"
"low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Uplifting talent in our communities Collaboration helps to create work opportunities and skills development for people across our communities. The Firm works with local businesses, educators and government leaders to support key initiatives. In addition to attracting top talent to JPMorganChase, the Firm participates in and commits philanthropic capital to talent • We committed"
"funding to the College Excellence Program through our existing Aspen Institute engagement. initiatives that mobilize businesses globally to work with education and training ventures. These initiatives aim to expand Our philanthropic commitment funded the creation of a leadership development curriculum as well as fellowship and career opportunities and help local economies thrive. Our work includes: technical assistance to community colleges. Policy advocacy aims to promote career pathways by"
"improving education and workforce systems and building lasting • To strengthen the local workforce, JPMorganChase committed funding to help launch a new regional workforce partnerships across private and public bodies. collaborative in Columbus, Ohio. Led by One Columbus, central Ohio’s economic development organization, the collaborative will help break down obstacles to employment and equip job-seekers with the skills and experience to • Our Second Chance Agenda strives to remove barriers to"
"employment and provide economic opportunities for justice- excel in the workforce, with a focus on emerging industries that demand highly technical skills. impacted individuals whose histories have no bearing on the job they were hired to perform. This initiative is designed to create broader opportunities for people with criminal records not only within our own company, but across the • Over the past five years, JPMorganChase has invested in infrastructure across the U.S. In 2024, we focused on"
"efforts to communities we serve. We strive to expand second chance hiring by encouraging other employers to tap into the pool build the workforces necessary to strengthen infrastructure and energy security, particularly on skilled trades and of qualified, talented candidates who may be justice-impacted, and to support common-sense policy solutions that will manufacturing. We committed philanthropic capital to the Maryland Philanthropy Network to expand access to high- help Americans access a"
"second chance to participate in the economy. quality training programs and foster public-private partnerships. Our philanthropic commitment aims to secure jobs for Baltimoreans in the energy and infrastructure sectors, with a target of placing 1,400 individuals into full-time employment. • JPMorganChase supported Texas’ House Bill 8 (“HB8”) legislation, which reformed the state’s community college finance system by shifting it from a model based on enrollment metrics to one focused on measurable"
"student Apprenticeship programs allow people to earn as they learn. They provide opportunity for individuals from various outcomes. This reform helps incentivize community colleges to support students in completing transferrable college backgrounds, including but not limited to those from underrepresented communities and LMI individuals, to build their credits or dual credit, or successfully transferring to a four-year college or university. In 2024, the Firm committed a skills and capabilities"
"while gaining relevant working experience. Examples of our support for these programs include: grant to Texas 2036 to expand its efforts to improve education and workforce development opportunities for Texans. • JPMorganChase was an early funder of Apprenticeship For America (“AFA”), an organization dedicated to shaping the To learn more, please refer to this brief released by the JPMorganChase PolicyCenter. apprenticeship field. AFA hosts webinars, publishes action research reports and advises"
"on policy development. • Supplemental Security Income (“SSI”) helps lower barriers to employment for people with disabilities by providing • JPMC worked with Year Up to offer a tuition-free, job-training program that consists of instruction from experts, critical income and healthcare assistance to millions of disabled Americans. However, SSI’s asset and income rules followed by a three- to six-month internship at JPMorganChase. The program strives to expand access to careers at the create"
"barriers to work, savings, financial resilience and retirement security for millions of workers with disabilities. Firm by providing skills-based training and support to adults ages 18 to 29, who have a high-school diploma or GED. In The Firm supported the first bipartisan, bicameral proposed legislation through testimony and public education, to our 2024 class, we had over 200 people complete the program. update SSI’s asset limits in more than 40 years, through the SSI Savings Penalty"
"Elimination Act. • JPMorganChase worked with CareerWise New York, a youth apprenticeship system based in New York City, to offer a two-year applied-learning environment for high school students and the opportunity for businesses to recruit talent. With apprenticeships, students can earn debt-free college credit and industry certificates recognized in the U.S. through their work experiences in fields such as IT, financial services and business operations. At JPMorganChase, apprentices can gain"
"coding or foundational banking skills, supporting corporate banking and operations initiatives and our branch network. 2024 Sustainability Report 36 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Empowering, rewarding and supporting our people Developing leaders and managing talent Our Leadership Edge programs are designed to develop and inspire our"
"employees to help drive a culture of inclusion, As part of our strategy to enhance the employee experience and to attract and retain employees, we deliver competitive empowerment and growth to support one another to reach their full potential. Our Leadership Edge management offerings that support our employees both in and out of the workplace. We strive to fairly compensate our employees and curriculum is aligned to three expectations which help define what it means to be an effective manager at"
"JPMorganChase, empower them through transparency and opportunities for growth at the Firm. We continuously explore ways to improve how to develop individuals for impact and growth, how to build and cultivate high-performing teams and how to drive health outcomes and strengthen benefit offerings for our employees and their families. sustained performance. In 2024, approximately 26,000 managers and executives participated in Leadership Edge initiatives, engaging through both instructor-led"
"programs and digital, self-paced content. Our 2024 Employee Opinion Empowering careers Survey results indicated higher levels of engagement between managers and their teams for those who attended Leadership Edge programs. To enable growth and opportunity for our global workforce, we seek to empower all employees to shape their careers. We provide clear guidance on role requirements, create transparency for internal job mobility and offer upskilling We continued to maintain a focus on our talent"
"management and succession planning processes across the Firm. opportunities, while supporting managers to help them lead their teams to achieve success. The Human Resources team actively engages with senior leaders to discuss key talent, succession and the development of our leadership pipeline, further enabling leaders across the Firm to set clear expectations across all levels. We encourage managers to support an employee’s career path by taking into consideration their skill set, professional"
"interests and career goals. Managers work with their employees, as needed, to equip them with the work-based applied We also continued to support talent with our Global Mentoring program. In 2024, we launched a new, structured firmwide learning and any licensing credentials needed for their roles. Creating a culture of innovation is a priority, and in 2024, we mentoring platform that enables employees to search for and connect with a mentor, as well as participate in programs further enhanced"
"our catalog offering for all employees to self-serve training on cloud, data, software engineering and that are targeted for one-to-one learning or group mentorship to discuss challenges and help accelerate professional more. These offerings include role-specific training, certifications and courses for employees to expand their skills and growth and development. enhance job performance. In 2024, employees completed 9.2 million training courses through self-paced learning as well as virtual and"
"traditional classrooms. Our compensation philosophy We empower our employees to deepen their professional expertise, and grow their careers through our Education Benefit We believe in a fair and well-governed approach to compensation that includes market competitive pay with pay-for- Program. The program offers eligible employees tuition funding, a network of professional education coaches and access performance practices designed to attract and retain the best talent; that responds to and"
"aligns with shareholder to a variety of resources to more than 500 certificate associate’s, bachelor’s, master’s, executive education and language interests; that reinforces our culture and Business Principles; and that integrates risk, controls and conduct considerations. programs provided by a variety of institutions. We seek to fairly compensate our employees in our pay-for-performance culture and have processes to evaluate our compensation practices. We conduct compensation reviews that"
"include employees at all levels within the Firm and work with legal counsel and expert consultants to assess compliance with applicable laws. 2024 Sustainability Report 37 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Health and wellness programs Financial health offerings for our employees JPMorganChase offers comprehensive benefits and wellness programs"
"to support employees and their families. We believe that financial health is an important part of people’s overall well-being. The Firm provides benefits and While benefits and wellness offerings vary by location, they can include health care coverage, retirement benefits, life and programs to help employees build a financially secure future. We offer employee retirement plans, including a 401(k) disability insurance, access to on-site health and wellness centers, counseling and resources"
"related to mental health, time savings plan in the U.S., stock purchase opportunities and discounted access to some financial products, depending on away policies, child care access and support, tuition assistance and financial education and coaching. individual eligibility. Supporting working families is an element of how we help care for our employees at various life stages. We provide U.S.- For 2024, the Firm granted a special award of $1,000 to eligible employees globally earning less than"
"$80,000 in total based employees with paid sick leave each year, up to 96 hours depending on local laws, and offer three to five weeks of annual cash compensation, and deposited the funds into employees’ 401(k) account in the U.S., which was an increase paid vacation annually. Our U.S. family-building assistance includes expense coverage for adoption, surrogacy and fertility. from the $850 award granted for 2023. Our Family Resources program connects parents with educational sessions and a wide"
"range of other programs, including Over a third of our eligible U.S. employees participated in our “My Finances & Me” program in 202434. This program comprehensive child care support and elder care referrals. The Firm also works to foster a culture that encourages seeking supports the Firm’s focus on employee financial literacy by providing guidance on a wide range of financial topics such as and obtaining mental health care. We offer education, resources and access to affordable, high-quality"
"mental health cash flow management, paying off debt and investing through a centralized resource hub, as well as group education care services. sessions and unlimited one-on-one financial coaching with a Certified Financial PlannerTM. We believe in helping to drive positive health outcomes not only for our employees and their families, but for the broader employer-sponsored health care ecosystem. Our Morgan Health business unit seeks to bring greater accountability to health care by scaling"
"innovations with the potential to improve employees’ health outcomes, reduce costs and improve the quality of care. Through the end of 2024, Morgan Health deployed approximately $210 million directly from the Firm’s balance sheet to early-stage companies that focus on a range of issues, including primary care and care navigation, data analytics, specialist-led primary care and solutions for small and mid-sized businesses since its launch. 34 As of January 3, 2025, active U.S. benefits-eligible"
"employees that have logged into the online financial wellness hub, received a Financial Wellness Score from the digital platform, called the Financial Coaching Line or attended a webcast. 2024 Sustainability Report 38 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Providing exceptional employee experiences We continue to invest in the workplace of the"
"future that delivers an elevated experience for employees, clients and visitors. In 2024, we delivered new or upgraded workspaces across key locations, including a technology hub in Glasgow. Our strategy focuses on creating workspaces that have more communal, collaborative and restorative areas; advanced The employee experience is an important component of our human capital strategy. When someone joins JPMorganChase, environmental systems; and amenities to foster connection and productivity."
"When we invest in improving our real estate, we focus on the entire lifecycle of their employment from candidate to alum. We offer our employees a range of support — not only are we investing in our employees — we are investing in the local community as a major employer in communities from tools and technology to human resources services. Our offerings encompass digital, physical and cultural across the globe. celebrations to provide a holistic approach to employee engagement. We strive to"
"engage our employees as a way to help strengthen our culture and business, while supporting their drive for civic engagement. Listening to our employees Delivering innovative employee experiences Our Employee Opinion Survey results, which had an approximately 90% employee participation rate in 2024, are reviewed by managers across the Firm and senior leadership for employee feedback and to help identify potential workplace Our experiences are designed around the employee to seamlessly drive"
"engagement and boost productivity. We seek to improvements. Each year, we enhance how we solicit employee feedback, with surveys covering candidates and provide our employees with the tools and solutions they need to do their best work efficiently and drive better employee experiences. collaboration. In 2024, we made significant enhancements to deliver personalized experiences across our global workforce. To streamline how employees access workplace support, the Firm launched a chat tool that"
"offers resources to We held our ninth annual Employee Appreciation Week in 2024, comprising a series of speakers, volunteering events and employees in one centralized place. We also launched a more personalized embedded desktop tool that delivers real-time social and wellness events to facilitate employee connections and participation across the Firm. nudges to help our employees schedule and manage their tasks in fewer steps. Additionally, we created a centralized hub that offers targeted"
"guidance and resources to our managers. The Firm launched its flagship AI product, Large Language Model (“LLM”) Suite in 2024. The AI platform provides secure access to large language models for idea generation, content drafting and knowledge retrieval. Since its launch, LLM Suite has improved how employees access information, reduced manual work and generated insights, laying the foundation for more advanced AI-powered workflows. Our enhanced AI capabilities were also embedded in the tools"
"employees use daily, including virtual assistant tools and help desk capabilities. These tools are now using our data and optimized algorithms to provide better personalization and utility for employees, focused on streamlining workflows and helping to resolve issues quickly. 2024 Sustainability Report 39 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices"
"Driving a culture of inclusion Employee volunteerism and community support We believe our strong, inclusive workplace culture helps our employees deliver for our shareholders, clients and We support our employees’ interest in helping their communities through local, Firm-organized and employee-led customers. Our Diversity, Opportunity and Inclusion (“DOI”) organization, the lines of business and relevant corporate volunteer engagements. We also encourage employees to serve on a nonprofit board,"
"should they have an interest. functions continue efforts to reach the most customers and clients to grow our business, uplift the people and Employees are eligible for paid time-off to participate in volunteer or employee engagement activities, whether Firm- communities we serve and create an inclusive workplace for our employees. sponsored or organized outside of the workplace. Our employees make contributions to their communities around the world through: Engaging in a Business Resource Group"
"(“BRG”) is one way that all employees can network and build camaraderie. BRGs are open to all employees regardless of background or how they identify. Refer to this website to learn more. • Volunteerism programs: Employees have opportunities to engage in activities that are meaningful to them, with focus areas on community growth and assistance, small businesses and youth programs organized by the Firm. • Board match & placement programs: Board Placement trains and places employees on nonprofit"
"boards. The Board Placement program is complemented by a broader Board Match program, where the Firm has matched over $2.2 million in donations given by employees serving on nonprofit boards in 2024. • Workplace giving: Through our giving programs, employees can donate to charities and causes meaningful to them. Our Guiding Principles were developed in 2024 to show that as a Firm we respect the dignity of every person, seek In 2024, approximately 18,000 employees’ personal charitable donations"
"were matched by the Firm. to promote creativity, produce the best ideas and uphold the principle that success should be based on hard work and character. Our Guiding Principles are as follows: • Disaster relief: We engage employees globally to address the humanitarian needs of those impacted by disasters. In 2024, our employees supported numerous disaster relief efforts including the earthquake in Japan; floods in Brazil; • We seek to make dreams possible for everyone, everywhere, every day. the"
"Francis Scott Key Bridge collapse; hurricanes Beryl, Helene and Milton; wildfires in Chile and humanitarian relief in • We do not believe that talent is concentrated in any particular demographic group(s) and are dedicated to equal the Middle East. employment opportunity for talent across all backgrounds. • We strictly prohibit unlawful discrimination, harassment and abusive conduct of any kind. We are dedicated to treating all individuals fairly and with respect. • We seek to attract and retain"
"the best talent. We recognize that our people are our strength, and the diverse talents and perspectives they bring to our global workforce are directly linked to our success. 2024 employee volunteerism highlights • We strive to build and foster an inclusive work environment where our employees are respected, trusted and Approximately 613,000 empowered. Our experience is that if our teams are more diverse, we will generate better ideas and outcomes, enjoy a stronger corporate culture and"
"outperform our competitors. volunteer hours through our programs • We are dedicated — and in many places obligated — to supporting underserved communities as part of our Approximately 88,000 commitment to corporate responsibility and long-term shareholder value. We strive to empower individuals and employees who volunteered through our programs improve lives through our business practices and community outreach efforts that we have seen are good for customers, communities and our business."
"Approximately 7,400 volunteer events 2024 Sustainability Report 40 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices 2024 workforce composition The following table presents information based on voluntary self-identifications by the Firm’s employees, including Total Senior level Operating Board of members of the Firm’s Operating Committee and other senior"
"level employees, as well as members of the Board of As of December 31, 2024 employees employees 35 Committee Directors Directors, as of December 31, 2024. Information on race/ethnicity of employees is categorized based on Equal Race/Ethnicity36 Employment Opportunity (“EEO”) classifications and is presented for U.S. employees who self-identified, and information on gender is presented for global employees who self-identified. Information on race/ethnicity and White 43% 74% 86% 80% gender for"
"members of the Operating Committee and the Board of Directors reflects all such members. Information Hispanic 21% 6% 7% —% on LGBTQ+ and veteran statuses is based on all U.S. employees, and all members of the Operating Committee and Asian 20% 14% 7% —% the Board of Directors. Information on disability status is based on all U.S. employees and all members of the Operating Committee. The information in this table is not considered when making employment decisions. Black 13% 5% —% 20% Other37 3% 1%"
"—% —% Gender38 Men 51% 71% 53% 50% Women 49% 29% 47% 50% LGBTQ+39 4% 2% 7% —% Military veterans39 3% 2% —% 10% People with Disabilities39 5% 3% —% —%40 35 Senior level employees represents employees with the titles of Managing Director and above. 36 Based on EEO metrics. Presented as a percentage of the respective populations who self-identified race/ethnicity, which was 97% and 95% of the Firm’s total U.S.-based employees and U.S.-based senior level employees, respectively, and all members of"
"the Operating Committee and the Board of Directors. Information for the Operating Committee includes one member who is based outside of the U.S. 37 Other includes American Indian or Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, and two or more races/ethnicities. 38 Presented as a percentage of the respective populations who self-identified gender, which was 99% of each of the Firm’s total global employees and senior level employees, and all members of the Operating Committee and the"
"Board of Directors. 39 Presented as a percentage of total U.S.-based employees, total U.S.-based senior level employees, all members of the Operating Committee, and all members of the Board of Directors, respectively. 40 The Firm has not asked members of the Board of Directors to self-identify disability status. 2024 Sustainability Report 41 Governance Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and"
"employees Governance Risk management Appendices Oversight and management of Environmental, Social and Governance related matters | Business ethics | Accountability, transparency and engagement 2024 Sustainability Report 42 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Governance & Nominating Committee — which operate pursuant to written charters and"
"oversee ESG-related matters within their respective scopes of responsibility. These charters and the Firm’s Corporate Governance Principles guide the Board’s governance and oversight functions. Our annual Proxy Statement includes additional information about the Our governance structures and practices are designed to promote accountability, transparency and ethical behavior membership and responsibilities of each committee. consistent with our corporate standards and Business Principles, which"
"are centered around strengthening, safeguarding and growing our company over the long term. The Board has established practices and processes to actively manage its information flow, set meeting agendas and promote sound, well-informed decisions. Board members have direct access to management and regularly receive information from, and engage with, management during and outside of formal Board meetings. The Board considers ESG- related matters in full Board discussions and committee discussions,"
"as appropriate. Further details on the frequency of Board meetings and committee discussion topics can be found in our Proxy Statement. Oversight and management Senior management of Environmental, Social and Our management structure is designed to encourage leadership that is consistent with our Purpose and How We Do Business Principles. We manage the Firm on a LOB basis, with leaders within each business responsible for driving strategy and execution to support the customers, clients and"
"communities we serve. The Firm’s most senior management Governance related matters body is the Operating Committee (“OC”), which is responsible for developing and implementing corporate strategy and managing operations. The OC is composed of our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), Chief Operating Officer (“COO”), Chief Risk Officer (“CRO”), Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), General Counsel, Head of Human Resources, Global Head of Corporate Responsibility, CEOs of each of the LOBs and other senior"
"executives. The Global Head of Diversity, Opportunity and Inclusion, the Global Head of Sustainability and other senior leaders provide periodic updates on social, environmental and employee-related initiatives to the OC and the Board, as appropriate. Responsibility for oversight and management of environmental-, social- and governance- (“ESG”) related matters occurs at multiple levels within the organization. Various ESG-related initiatives across LOBs are periodically managed through LOB-led"
"business reviews. The Firmwide Environmental Committee (“FEC”) provides senior oversight and decision-making on the Firm’s strategy, definitions, methodologies, standards and practices related to environmental sustainability initiatives and business efforts in support Board of Directors of client goals. Co-chaired by the CRO and the Global Head of Sustainability, the FEC’s membership includes senior leaders from across the Firm. The co-chairs of the FEC are responsible for escalating information"
"to the Board and its committees, The Board of Directors (the “Board”) is responsible for oversight of the business and affairs of the Firm, based on sound as appropriate. governance practices and effective leadership structure, on behalf of shareholders. It is also responsible for setting the The Firmwide Social Impact Forum (“S-Forum”) provides senior oversight and direction on the firm’s strategy, cultural “tone at the top”. Its core areas of oversight include strategy, executive performance,"
"talent management and methodologies, standards and practices related to initiatives and efforts intended to have a positive business and succession planning, financial performance and condition, risk management and internal control framework, including economic impact in the communities where we do business while delivering continued long-term shareholder value. on ESG matters. Co-chaired by the COO and the Global Head of Corporate Responsibility, Forum membership includes senior LOB leaders The"
"Board considers its composition and needs holistically, determining the diversity of experience, backgrounds, responsible for developing, executing and managing firmwide strategies intended to advance economic opportunity. perspectives and viewpoints required to effectively oversee the Firm, including its present and future strategy. The co-chairs of the S-Forum are responsible for escalating information and issues to the OC or the Board and its Brief summaries of the complex and dynamic skills"
"and experience found among our Board members — which include committees, as appropriate. ESG matters — can be found in our Proxy Statement. The Board oversees management directly and through its five principal standing committees — Public Responsibility Committee, Compensation & Management Development Committee, Risk Committee, Audit Committee and Corporate 2024 Sustainability Report 43 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting"
"stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Business ethics We strive to be accountable, straightforward and honest in our dealings with customers, employees, suppliers, shareholders and other stakeholders. Our Code of Conduct, Business Principles, and internal policies, standards and procedures are designed to promote a culture of respect that allows every employee to feel safe at work and empowered to speak up if they have concerns about unethical"
"behavior. Code of Conduct Human rights Our Code of Conduct (the “Code”) highlights the personal responsibility of every employee to operate with the highest At JPMorganChase, we strive to support principles of human rights as they relate to our business segments and Corporate standards of integrity, transparency and ethical conduct. It emphasizes the importance of avoiding conflicts of interest, in each region of the world where we operate. We recognize that human rights issues are a global"
"challenge and protecting confidential information and maintaining a workplace that is free from threats, intimidation and physical harm. acknowledge that our business has the potential to affect communities and the natural environments that surround them. The Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals, a Code supplement, focuses on promoting honest and ethical conduct and The principles set forth in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights inform our respect for the protection"
"adherence with the law, particularly as it relates to the maintenance of the Firm’s financial books and records and the and preservation of human rights, and the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights inform our preparation of External Financial Reporting, and applies to the CEO, CFO and other finance, accounting, corporate treasury, approach to respecting human rights in our own operations and business relationships. We also seek to comply with tax and investor relations"
"roles. applicable legal requirements in the jurisdictions in which we operate. We reinforce our expectations through various channels, including senior leaders’ communications with employees, town- For more information on how we manage human rights and modern slavery-related risks in our operations, business hall meetings and culture and conduct-related questions in our employee surveys. In addition, acting with integrity is one activities of our clients and customers and in our supply chain,"
"please refer to our Human Rights Statement and FY2024 criterion used to evaluate employees during their annual reviews. Modern Slavery Act Statement. Employees are assigned conduct training shortly after their start date and periodically thereafter. Each year, employees must affirm their compliance with the Code. In addition, employees are required to raise conduct concerns and report any Supply chain and responsible sourcing potential or actual violations of the Code, Firm policies, or any"
"applicable laws or regulations. Employees, directors, suppliers and customers can report known or suspected violations to our Conduct Hotline via phone, online or mobile JPMorganChase expects suppliers to demonstrate ethical business conduct and adhere to the law at all times. The Firm’s device. The Hotline is anonymous, except in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions where anonymous reporting is prohibited. It is Supplier Code of Conduct outlines our principles and expectations for suppliers and other"
"third parties working for or on operated by a third-party service provider and is accessible 24/7 worldwide, with translation services. behalf of the Firm, as well as the owners, officers, directors, employees, consultants, affiliates, contractors and sub- The Code prohibits intimidation or retaliation against anyone who raises an issue in good faith or assists with an contractors of these supplier organizations and entities. investigation. Reporting obligations to the Firm do not prevent"
"employees from reporting to the government or regulators The Supplier Code of Conduct communicates the Firm’s expectations of suppliers across a range of issues, including the conduct that they believe violates the law. It is our policy to promptly review all potential violations and take action as need to promote and respect human rights laws by working to prevent forced labor and human trafficking in their operations appropriate. Under our policy, confidentiality will be maintained to the"
"extent possible consistent with investigations. and supply chains. The Supplier Code of Conduct also requires our suppliers to report any concern or actual or suspected Ethics and culture are key focus areas of our Board of Directors. The Board’s Compensation & Management Development violation of the law or regulation related to the Firm’s business, the Supplier Code of Conduct, or any Firm Policy. The Firm’s Committee is responsible for reviewing the Firm’s culture, including thematic feedback"
"from employees and cultural supplier oversight program establishes in-scope suppliers and executes risk-based due diligence accordingly across a initiatives, as well as reports from management regarding significant conduct issues and any related employee actions. range of environmental, social and governance matters, including screenings for human rights issues. Firmwide standards The Audit Committee reviews the program established by management that monitors compliance with the Code and"
"establish expectations for appropriate escalation and remediation of issues in the event such violations are reported. receives reports of such compliance. 2024 Sustainability Report 44 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Fair and responsible banking Responsible marketing JPMorganChase seeks to treat all individuals fairly and equitably in the"
"conduct of its businesses and in all jurisdictions We believe it is important to be clear and transparent in our advertising and marketing. We seek to comply with applicable where it conducts business. This is part of our mission of providing quality financial services to existing and prospective laws and regulations on responsible and fair marketing practices. Our sales employees are expected to communicate with customers in accordance with all applicable laws. customers in a clear, truthful"
"and complete manner and to provide them with relevant information to assist them in making an informed decision. Our lines of business are required to have an established procedure for reviewing all new and revised In the United States, fair lending laws, such as the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act, as well as other marketing materials, terms and conditions, disclaimers and other customer communications. These procedures include state and local laws require, among other"
"things, the equitable treatment of all credit applicants without regard to race, sex multiple layers of review — including different internal functions — for clarity and accuracy. In addition, periodic testing is (including gender, gender identity and sexual orientation), color, national origin, religion, age, marital status, disability, familial performed for compliance with the procedures, and if necessary, changes are made to improve processes. Training programs status, the fact that all or"
"part of the applicant’s income derives from public assistance programs or the fact that the applicant are periodically conducted for marketers to cover topics including marketing claims and regulatory marketing compliance. has in good faith exercised any right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act. The expectation around fair treatment of our current and potential customers extends to every aspect of a credit transaction, including not only how we review credit requests but also our"
"advertising, handling of pre-application inquiries, loan disbursements and ongoing servicing. The Firm offers training to relevant employees on equal opportunity and consumer financial protection laws and regulations that aims to equip employees with the necessary knowledge and skills to comply with regulatory requirements. This includes, but is not limited to, our Fair Lending training and our Customers First training, which covers key areas such as prohibitions on unfair, deceptive, and"
"abusive acts and practices; the Americans with Disabilities Act; sales practices misconduct; and preventing, identifying and reporting financial abuse of elder and vulnerable persons. Additionally, our firmwide Code of Conduct41 — affirmed annually by all employees — explicitly states that discrimination, harassment or any other inappropriate conduct based on race, color, ethnicity, religion, religious affiliation or beliefs, national origin or ancestry, gender, military or veteran status,"
"disability, marital or family status, political opinions, speech or affiliations, age or any other status protected under applicable local law will not be tolerated. 41 This reflects the Firm’s Code of Conduct as at October 15, 2025. 2024 Sustainability Report 45 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Accountability, transparency and engagement We"
"have taken steps to advance sustainability in our business and operations and to uphold strong governance practices, and we will continue to learn — including through the feedback we receive from our stakeholders. Our approach is reinforced by our ongoing efforts to enhance accountability, transparency and engagement. Accountability Stakeholder engagement We strive to leverage the Firm’s management structures to foster sound management and a culture of accountability. The Firm has a range of"
"stakeholders, including customers and clients, employees, investors and other interested parties This includes defining oversight and management of environmental- and social-related initiatives within and across our such as communities, regulators and policymakers, nonprofit organizations (“NPOs”) and non-governmental organizations LOBs (refer to page 43 for more information). (“NGOs”), suppliers and research analysts. We engage with these stakeholders throughout the year to obtain insight into"
"their needs and perspectives and to gather feedback on our strategy and performance, including as they relate to our environmental and social strategies and activities, and governance practices. Public reporting Responsibility for engaging with stakeholder groups is widely shared across the Firm, including by the Board, Senior Management and across the LOBs and Corporate Functions (“CFs”) through numerous channels. We consider the insights We recognize stakeholders’ interest in timely"
"information concerning our environmental- and social-related strategies and we gain from our engagement with key stakeholders when developing the Firm’s business strategies, products and activities, as well as the governance structures that are designed to support their effective oversight and implementation. services and policies and procedures. We communicate information and updates on these topics through a number of channels, including our Annual Report, sustainability reporting, regulatory"
"filings, website, press releases, direct conversations with stakeholders and various other reports and presentations. We maintain a dedicated webpage as well as Our impact to facilitate access to information that we publish on these topics. Our GRI, SASB, and TCFD indexes in our Sustainability Data Tables map the Firm’s disclosures related to these frameworks’ indicators and recommendations. We are also closely monitoring and responding to regulatory developments related to mandatory reporting"
"requirements in many jurisdictions around the world. 2024 Sustainability Report 46 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices How we engage with our stakeholders Customers and clients • We continue to engage regularly with our customers in our branches. • We seek customer feedback via online and in-branch surveys. • We have a conduct hotline through"
"which our customers can raise concerns and report misconduct, anonymously where permitted by law. • We engage with our clients through one-on-one meetings, roundtables and conferences. Employees • We engage through surveys, including our global Employee Opinion Survey, which are conducted periodically, and exit surveys. • We engage through various forums, including town halls; small group meetings; blogs, articles and newsletters; online feedback tools; and others. • We engage through our Global"
"Sustainability Series events, inviting employees to hear from the Firm’s sustainability leaders and external sustainability experts. • We engage through our Global GoGreen program, a global network of employee-led volunteer teams, to increase employee awareness of the Firm’s approach to sustainability, and to inspire positive environmental actions by employees at work, at home, and within the communities where they live. Investors • We communicate with investors through our quarterly earnings"
"materials, Annual Reports and Proxy Statements and Supplements, Securities and Exchange Commission filings, press releases and the Firm’s website. • We engage with investors through quarterly earnings calls, investor meetings and conferences, the Annual General Meeting and other forums. • We conduct a continuous investor outreach program dedicated to opportunities for institutional shareholders to discuss topics that include, but are not limited to, executive compensation, management-succession"
"planning, Board composition and refreshment, shareholder rights and other matters such as climate change, DOI and the Firm’s enterprise risk management framework. How we engage with other interested parties Communities • We continue to engage our communities including through our longstanding Chase Advisory Panel program, where we facilitate regular conversations among senior JPMorganChase executives and consumer policy groups, NGOs, civic leaders, trade associations, think tanks and chambers of"
"commerce. Many of these groups are sources of information that provide insight and help to generate ideas about how the Firm can promote greater access to financial products and services and better meet the needs of clients, customers and communities. Regulators and • We engage with policymakers on a range of issues, including banking, financial services, cybersecurity, workforce development, small business, tax, trade and inclusive economic growth, among others. policymakers • We engage with"
"regulators and legislators as necessary to conduct business and provide commentary on proposed changes to relevant regulations and legislation affecting our business. For more information on the Firm’s political engagement, please refer to page 48. NGOs and NPOs • We engage with NGOs and NPOs to gather their input on the Firm’s policies, practices and strategic direction as we deem appropriate. • We provide grants and sponsor events to advance progress toward goals that are aligned with the"
"Firm’s priorities. • We create skills-based volunteering programs where employees support nonprofit missions, help address the challenges they face, and make an impact in the communities in which we live and work. ESG raters • We engage in open, transparent dialogue with rating agencies to develop our understanding of methodologies and scoring, validate data and provide feedback. • Our Corporate Sustainability team manages the Firm’s relationships with ESG rating agencies and leads our efforts"
"to identify and implement potential enhancements to our policies, procedures, and practices. Suppliers • The Firm interacts with our key suppliers on a frequent basis through regular business reviews, ad hoc meetings, phone and email. We expect our suppliers to demonstrate ethical business conduct and adhere to the law at all times. For more information on our supplier business conduct, refer to our Supplier Code of Conduct published on our website. • Our Supplier Environmental Sustainability"
"Guidelines further highlight our efforts to engage with our suppliers on environmental issues. The guidelines are intended to establish a framework for the Firm to further incorporate environmental considerations into our procurement process, as appropriate, and to encourage our suppliers to integrate positive environmental practices within their own organizations. Research analysts • We provide information to members of the investment community, including portfolio managers, financial and ESG"
"research analysts and stewardship teams, through regulatory filings, quarterly earning materials, reports, presentations, conferences and publications posted to the Firm’s website. • The Investor Relations team hosts periodic, thematic events for industry analysts, investors and other stakeholders that feature senior executives. We also engage with portfolio managers, analysts and stewardship teams throughout the year. 2024 Sustainability Report 47 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable"
"energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Political, public policy and industry engagement Our business is subject to extensive laws and regulations, and changes to such laws can significantly affect how we Climate and energy policy and industry engagement operate, our revenues and the costs we incur. Recognizing the potential impact public policy can have on our businesses, employees,"
"communities and customers, we engage with policymakers holding a range of views on a range of issues — We recognize the need for thoughtful public policy on climate- and energy-related matters, which can help including banking, financial services, workforce development, small business, tax, trade, economic growth and energy, accelerate the Firm’s progress on climate-related efforts and contribute to sustainable economic growth. It is among others — to advance and protect the long-term interests"
"of the Firm. among the prerequisites for achievement of our and others’ sustainability goals. We engage with external stakeholders and trade associations on policies that we believe can help support affordable, secure energy and a The Firm belongs to a number of trade associations that advocate on major public policy issues of importance to the Firm transition to a low-carbon economy consistent with commercial considerations, while continuing to make our own and the communities we serve. The"
"Firm’s participation in these associations comes with the understanding that we may independent decisions. not always align with all their positions or those of its other members. We make independent decisions as a Firm, and we provide feedback on the efforts by these associations as we determine appropriate. A list of the Firm’s principal trade Similarly, we may engage with industry groups focused on complex global challenges, including climate change. associations is disclosed in our Political"
"Engagement Report. We evaluate these groups for alignment with our objectives and whether they have appropriate governance. When participating in these groups, we understand that we may not always align with all their positions or those of The Public Responsibility Committee of our Board of Directors provides oversight of our positions and practices on public their other members, and we continue to exercise our own business judgment at all times. This may, from time to responsibility matters,"
"including significant policies and practices regarding political contributions, major lobbying time, result in us exiting a group when doing so is in the best interest of the Firm. We also participate in a variety of priorities and principal trade association memberships that relate to the Firm’s public policy objectives. initiatives focused on advancing sustainability, including: Because of our policies and practices, we received a “Trendsetter” ranking in 2024, with an overall score of 97.1%"
"for • In 2024, we hosted two private dialogues about financing nuclear energy with participants from the political disclosure and accountability on the 2024 CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate Political Disclosure and Accountability. technology, government and finance sectors, as well as NGOs. The discussions explored barriers and solutions The Firm discloses on its website contributions made by the Firm’s political action committees, contributions of corporate to financing nuclear projects and ways"
"that public-private collaboration could help facilitate deployment. funds made in connection with ballot initiatives and information about our governance and oversight practices. • In 2024, we also hosted an event about the outlook for enhanced geothermal energy with geothermal company Fervo Energy. The event included participants from finance, policy and energy sectors, and focused on policy, finance and market needs to scale the geothermal sector. • We take part in industry groups like the"
"Business Environmental Leadership Council, a group convened by the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions, to enhance our understanding of the policy and market environment from experts and industry leaders. 2024 Sustainability Report 48 Risk management Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Managing climate risks | Managing nature and social"
"risks | Managing financial crime and corruption risks | Cybersecurity and data privacy 2024 Sustainability Report 49 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Our climate risk management framework At JPMorganChase, our objective is to manage our business and the associated risks in a manner that balances Our climate risk management framework outlines"
"the capabilities we employ to identify, assess, manage and quantify the serving the interests of our clients, customers and investors and protecting the safety and soundness of the Firm. potential impacts of physical and transition risk. On the following pages, we discuss the various components of our climate We maintain frameworks and controls to identify, assess and manage a range of risks, including credit and risk framework: Risk Governance, Scenario Analysis and Risk Identification. We also"
"discuss Risk Measurement investment, market, operational and strategic, as well as drivers of these risks such as climate risks. The Firm also capabilities as described in the Risk Types section. Data Management and Reporting and Disclosures capabilities are manages other areas of risk, including nature and social, financial crimes and corruption, and cybersecurity and described throughout this chapter. data privacy. We measure and monitor these risks through risk governance and oversight"
"functions. For more JPMorganChase continues to invest in talent, as well as data and technology resources to support the management of information on the Firm’s risk governance framework, refer to pages 91–95 of our Form 10-K for the year climate risk. ended December 31, 2024. The Firm’s Climate Risk Framework Managing climate risks RISK GOVERNANCE SCENARIO ANALYSIS RISK IDENTIFICATION RISK MEASUREMENT DATA MANAGEMENT REPORTING & DISCLOSURES Climate risk refers to the potential threats posed by"
"physical and transition risk to the Firm and its clients, customers, operations and business strategy. Climate change is viewed as a driver of risk that may impact existing types of risks managed by the Firm (credit and investment, market, operational and strategic risk). Climate risk is categorized into physical risk and transition risk. Physical risk involves economic costs and financial losses due to a changing climate. Acute physical risk drivers include Risk governance the increased"
"frequency and/or severity of climate and weather events such as floods, wildfires and tropical cyclones. Chronic physical risk drivers include more gradual shifts in the climate, such as sea level rise, persistent changes in We maintain a framework and strategy for identifying, monitoring and managing climate risk, which is integrated into our precipitation levels and increase in average ambient temperatures. Indirect physical risk drivers include the second-order risk governance process. This"
"framework allows for the escalation of significant climate risk-related issues to LOB Risk effects of these acute and chronic risks, such as supply chain disruptions or changes to property valuations. Committees. The Board Risk Committee also receives information on significant climate risks and climate-related Transition risk involves the financial and economic consequences of society’s shift toward a low-carbon economy. initiatives, as appropriate. Transition risk drivers include possible"
"changes in public policy, adoption of new technologies and shifts in consumer preferences. Transition risks may also be influenced by changes in the physical climate. Both physical and transition risks associated with climate change could have negative impacts on the financial condition or creditworthiness of the Firm’s clients and customers, its exposure to affected companies and markets and the effectiveness of the Firm’s existing business strategy with respect to its operations, clients and"
"customers. 2024 Sustainability Report 50 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Scenario analysis Risk identification Scenario analysis is a key component of our climate risk framework. While not a prediction of the future, it is an informative Our firmwide Risk Identification framework is designed to facilitate the responsibility of each LOB and"
"Corporate to identify tool that helps us assess and identify potential vulnerabilities impacting our clients, customers, operations and business material risks inherent to the Firm’s business and operational activities. These risks are cataloged in a central repository by strategy across a range of potential climate-driven future states of the world. the LOBs and CFs, and reviewed and challenged by Risk Functions. We have integrated climate, nature and social risks into our central repository"
"and its associated taxonomy as drivers of the Firm’s four major risk types — credit and investment We leverage an array of scenarios as part of our internal risk management processes, where relevant. These include risk, market risk, operational risk and strategic risk. scenarios released by the internationally-recognized Network for Greening the Financial System (“NGFS”) and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (“IPCC”), which represent widely-accepted, plausible pathways for society’s"
"The table on the following page provides examples of how transition and physical risks could directly or indirectly impact future GHG emissions that consider the complex interactions between global socioeconomic systems and natural Earth the four major risk types we manage. The term “first-order impacts” refers to impacts that directly affect an individual systems over time. company, property or consumer. The term “second-order impacts” refers to secondary impacts to financial markets, local"
"economies or other businesses. In some cases, the “first-order” impacts may build over time and trigger the “second- Building upon external scenario frameworks, we have also developed a tailored suite of internal climate scenarios to help order” impacts — for example, repeated business disruption following severe weather events may lead to lower availability inform our measurement of potential financial and economic impacts to the Firm from climate risks. These internal or higher cost of"
"insurance in the local area. scenarios allow for more flexibility to capture portfolio-specific considerations and reflect the interplay of current geopolitical and economic drivers with climate risks. We use scenario analysis to help us better understand how climate change may impact the Firm’s risk profile. We use the climate risks identified in the Firm’s central repository to inform our climate scenario design and, in turn, we incorporate We continue to advance our internal scenario"
"capabilities, including the integration of both physical and transition risks, insights generated through climate scenario analysis to enhance the documentation of climate risks in the material taking into account their potential combined impacts on the broader economy. Our internal development efforts will risk inventory. enhance our ability to identify, measure, monitor and manage climate-related financial risks. Time horizons Because of the varying pace and cumulative effects of climate"
"change, we assess climate risks across a range of time horizons. In this way, our strategic approach seeks to cover both potential current and future climate risks. • Short-term: We categorize a timeframe of less than five years as short-term, which aligns with our allowance for loan losses and capital adequacy assessments. • Medium-term: We classify a medium-term time horizon as 5 to 10 years. This time horizon captures key technological and investment trends that may materialize within the"
"decade. • Long-term: We consider a long-term time horizon as 10+ years, understanding that the effects of climate change, as indicated through emissions and various temperature pathways, unfold over longer time horizons. 2024 Sustainability Report 51 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Examples of potential adverse impacts of climate-related"
"risk Risk type Physical risk Transition risk First order Second order First order Second order Credit and investment risk Increasing frequency and severity of weather Over time, the higher amount of direct damage A shift in consumer preference away from A sustained low-profitability environment in events could lead to (1) increased capital expenses resulting from severe weather events could lead certain carbon-intensive products could lead local economies reliant on carbon intensive Risk"
"associated with the default or change in credit profile of a to repair damage to collateral and (2) decreased to increased insurance costs, impacting to reduced profitability for clients slow to adapt industries could lead to lower local economic client, counterparty or customer; or loss of principal or a income due to business interruptions affordability, or reduced availability of insurance, to a low-carbon economy output, higher unemployment and increased reduction in expected returns on"
"investments, including potentially leading to lower asset values client default risk consumer credit risk, wholesale credit risk and investment portfolio risk Market risk Higher than expected insurance claims in the In areas susceptible to extreme weather events, Increasing consumer demand for electric Sustained EV demand combined with ongoing aftermath of a severe weather event could drive a concerns about lower availability of insurance not vehicles (“EVs”) could negatively impact the"
"constraints in the EV supply chain could lead to Risk associated with the effect of changes in market factors, such regional U.S. insurance carrier to insolvency, and being fully factored into housing prices could equity value of slow-to- transition automotive long-term price appreciation and volatility for as interest and foreign exchange rates, equity and commodity its equity price collapses drive downward pressure on home price indices, manufacturers certain commodities prices, credit spreads"
"or implied volatilities, on the value of leading to higher mortgage defaults and a sell-off assets and liabilities held for both the short and long term in mortgage-backed securities markets Operational risk A severe weather event — such as a flood or Increasingly frequent and destructive weather JPMorganChase implementation of new Fast evolving legal landscape on climate topics tropical cyclone — could cause damage to a events could lead to migration of businesses and climate-related models and"
"the emergence of could lead to more scrutiny and litigation being Risk of an adverse outcome resulting from inadequate or failed JPMorganChase building with temporary business residents away from certain regions, creating various climate-related regulatory brought against the financial sector, leading to internal processes or systems, human factors, or external events disruption and repair costs hiring and employee retention challenges for expectations globally could lead to increased increased"
"legal costs impacting the Firm’s processes or systems. Operational risk local JPMorganChase offices operational risk, such as increased includes cybersecurity, compliance, conduct, legal, and compliance costs estimations and model risk Strategic risk The Firm’s investments in properties could be The Firm’s expansion of mortgage lending activity The Firm could fail to attract green business The Firm could no longer be viewed as a increasingly susceptible to physical damages in areas where"
"insurers have reduced or opportunities as society shifts toward a low- leading banking partner for a large part of the Risk to earnings, capital, liquidity or reputation associated with from severe weather events, leading to higher withdrawn coverage leads to lower revenues carbon economy, or could fail to retain clients global economy poorly-designed or failed business plans or an inadequate repair costs and reduced profitability for the Firm in traditional energy sectors that continue to"
"response to changes in the operating environment play a role in meeting global energy demand 2024 Sustainability Report 52 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Risk types Consumer credit risk We continue to assess how physical and transition risks may manifest and their potential impacts on the existing risk types As of December 31, 2024, the"
"Firm had $1.7 trillion of consumer credit exposure, including residential real estate, auto loans the Firm manages. and credit cards. Retained residential real estate loans, predominantly in the U.S., made up $310 billion of the total consumer credit portfolio. We use catastrophe models to estimate the potential impact of hypothetical severe weather events, including flooding and tropical cyclones, on our real estate portfolios. Catastrophe models provide estimates of Credit and investment risk"
"event frequency and severity, as well as resultant property damage under different emissions scenarios. Such metrics contribute to analyses of potential future climate-related credit risk by informing estimates of risk drivers, such as insurance costs and asset values. However, such modeling has limitations, such as considering current building codes and Credit and investment risk is one of the four risk types we manage and is the risk associated with the default or change in flood defenses but"
"not future risk mitigation. Today, the risks of severe weather events for this portfolio are substantially the credit profile of a client, counterparty or customer; or loss of principal or a reduction in expected returns on mitigated through geographic diversification of the properties and the prevalence of hazard insurance. As we evaluate the investments including consumer credit risk, wholesale credit risk and investment portfolio risk. potential for future impacts, we are considering outcomes"
"in which these mitigants are less effective — for example, if We use our risk identification process and scenario analysis capabilities to measure the potential adverse impacts that the insurance costs become prohibitively expensive or availability of insurance is limited in geographic scope or coverage. baseline and stress climate risk scenarios may have on our credit portfolios, both today and in the future. We analyze the The cumulative effect of physical climate risk may impact our"
"residential real estate portfolio in several ways, including the direct impacts of physical and transition risk — including property damage and financial loss due to severe weather events following: or the potential reduction in profitability of a client, counterparty or customer as a result of a societal transition from a high- carbon to a lower carbon-intensive footprint. We also consider indirect and longer-term risk drivers, including the potential • Greater physical damages: increased"
"likelihood or severity of severe weather events may increase consumer credit losses. for reduced availability or increased cost of insurance for clients of JPMorganChase in a given geography, adoption of new • Higher insurance premiums: higher insurance premiums may increase living expenses and financial burden for consumers. technologies and shifts in consumer preferences. • Reduced coverage or availability of insurance: insurers may further limit types of damage they cover or withdraw coverage"
"from specific geographies. • Housing price impacts: cumulative effect of climate-driven events may adversely impact house prices and local economies in certain geographies, potentially disproportionately impacting lower-income households and communities. 2024 Sustainability Report 53 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Wholesale credit risk As"
"of December 31, 2024, the Firm had $1.4 trillion of wholesale credit exposure. In its wholesale businesses, the Firm is To assess the impact of climate transition risk on sectors with less vulnerability to transition risk, the Firm conducts a exposed to credit risk primarily through its underwriting, lending, market-making and hedging activities with and for separate client-specific internal stress analysis. The potential effect on a client’s credit rating is estimated by stressing clients and"
"counterparties, as well as through various operating services (such as cash management and clearing client financials consistent with industry projected performance in the transition scenario and factoring in the additional activities), securities financing activities and cash placed with banks. costs incurred due to a carbon tax on the company’s emissions. The Firm has built a stress framework to estimate potential impacts from a range of climate transition pathways on client The Firm has also"
"developed risk measurement capabilities, including catastrophe modeling, to estimate the potential financials and credit ratings. Financial impacts from a transition to a low-carbon economy could manifest in a variety of impact of severe weather events exacerbated by climate change on our Commercial Real Estate portfolio. For example, ways, including weaker demand for carbon-intensive products, resulting in lower revenue or higher operating costs for hurricanes, floods and wildfires could cause"
"potential physical damage to the underlying properties, leading to expenses carbon-emitting companies if a carbon tax is implemented. Additionally, companies may need to increase their capital for repairs and disruptions in revenue, as well as changes in overall property values that could impact the credit quality of expenditures through investments that improve resilience to a low-carbon transition (e.g., power companies investing in the portfolio. The impact of severe weather events on the"
"Commercial Real Estate portfolio is currently estimated to be renewables). limited given relatively low exposure to areas most impacted by severe weather events. For clients operating in sectors more vulnerable to transition risk (e.g., Oil & Gas, Automotive Manufacturing, Power Generation, Aviation, Steel and Cement Manufacturing), the Firm estimates the potential impact of a climate transition scenario on their credit rating by projecting detailed cashflows within the context of a transition"
"scenario (refer to Scenario Analysis on page 51). This estimation takes into account several factors including a client’s historical emissions reduction, current and forecasted carbon intensity, and actions taken to advance their decarbonization, among other inputs. 2024 Sustainability Report 54 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Risk"
"measurement in focus: heatmap of wholesale credit exposures (as of December 31, 2024) Below is a heatmap of wholesale credit exposures using a color-coded scale to indicate sector-level vulnerability to transition and physical risk. The categorizations are based on internal methodologies that assess sector-specific characteristics that may lead to transition and physical risk vulnerabilities. For example, the transition risk methodology considers potential sector-level sensitivity to changes in"
"climate policy, readiness to adopt low-carbon technologies and macroeconomic impacts. The physical risk indicator considers potential sector-specific vulnerabilities, such as reliance on outdoor labor and climate-vulnerable resources. The heatmap is designed to reflect potential vulnerabilities across a given sector and should not be interpreted as a direct assessment of the Firm’s own portfolio vulnerabilities to these risks, nor those of any individual counterparty within the sector. Key:"
"Transition Risk High Moderate Low N/A Physical Risk Very high High Moderate Low Very low N/A Total credit exposure Total credit exposure Sector (USD million) Transition Risk Physical risk Sector (USD million) Transition Risk Physical risk COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL 506,877 Moderate Moderate Chemicals/Plastics 20,782 High Moderate Consumer & Retail 129,815 Moderate Low Chemicals 14,301 High Moderate Retail 35,178 Low Low Plastic & Rubber 6,481 Moderate Moderate Business & Consumer Services 34,946"
"Moderate Low Metals/Mining 15,860 High High Food & Beverage 35,457 Moderate Low Steel 3,947 High High Consumer Hard Goods 14,004 Moderate Low Aluminum 1,066 High Very high Leisure 10,230 Moderate Moderate Coal 136 High High Technology, Media & Telecommunications 84,716 Moderate Moderate Other Metals & Mining 10,711 High High Industrials 72,530 Moderate Moderate Transportation 17,019 Moderate Moderate Machinery & Equipment 35,140 Moderate Moderate FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS 234,984 Low N/A"
"Construction & Building Materials 15,046 Moderate Moderate REAL ESTATE 207,050 Moderate Low Agriculture, Forest Products & Textiles 13,855 Moderate High Multifamily 124,081 N/A Low Aerospace & Defense 8,489 High Moderate Office 16,360 N/A Low Healthcare 64,224 Low Moderate Industrial 19,109 N/A Low Oil & Gas 31,724 High High Retail 12,253 N/A Low Exploration & Production (“E&P”) and Oilfield Services 15,113 High High Lodging 4,574 N/A Moderate Other Oil & Gas 16,611 High High Other Income"
"Producing Properties 16,569 N/A Moderate Automotive 34,336 High Moderate Services and Non Income Producing 14,104 N/A Moderate Auto Dealers 17,471 Low Low GOVERNMENT & AGENCIES 48,901 N/A N/A Auto Manufacturing 16,865 High Moderate OTHER INDUSTRIES 285,018 N/A N/A Utilities 35,871 Moderate High Individuals and Individual Entities 144,145 N/A N/A Electric 12,909 Moderate Very high Other 140,873 N/A N/A Gas 9,439 High High TOTAL 1,282,830 Integrated & Other Utilities 13,523 Moderate High Note:"
"Data in the above table is as of December 31, 2024. This year, we replaced revenue-based carbon intensity with the transition risk indicator, a more comprehensive metric to assess sector-level vulnerability across a wider range of transition risk drivers in the short-term. The physical risk rating is based on our internal methodology, which assesses characteristics of each global industry that could lead to physical risk vulnerability and focuses on the direct activities of companies in the"
"short-term. Grey cells indicate sectors and sub-sectors we have not yet scored and/or with insufficient data, such as sub-sectors within the Real Estate sector. Total credit exposure includes retained loans, lending-related commitments and derivative receivables. 2024 Sustainability Report 55 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Other risk types"
"Strategic risk Strategic risk is the risk to earnings, capital, liquidity or reputation associated with poorly designed or failed business plans or Market risk inadequate response to changes in the operating environment. In response to climate change, and in support of our clients transitioning to a lower-carbon economy, we may make changes to our business strategy, product offerings and risk profile. Market risk is the risk associated with the effect of changes in market factors, such as"
"interest and foreign exchange rates, Reputation risk equity and commodity prices, credit spreads or implied volatilities, on the value of assets and liabilities held for both the short- and long-term. Climate risk drivers may lead to sharp volatility or persistent changes in the prices of commodities The Firm makes decisions based on a range of commercial considerations, including operational capabilities and and financial assets; for example, companies in carbon intensive sectors without"
"credible transition plans may have assets expertise, servicing costs, risk relative to opportunity and the prioritization of finite resources. Where relevant, these that are viewed as stranded, resulting in materially depressed equity prices. The Firm has established a stress framework decisions take into account the reputations and standings of our clients. Companies, including JPMorganChase, continue to quantify the impact of the transition risk stress scenarios on vulnerable asset classes. We"
"have also analyzed a series of to face reputation risk with respect to how they manage climate, nature and social risks, as well as their overall drivers to estimate the potential impacts of various acute physical risk events on market exposures. environmental sustainability strategy. Maintaining a strong reputation enhances the value of our franchise by safeguarding our commercial interests. Operational risk Liquidity risk Operational risk is the risk of an adverse outcome resulting from"
"inadequate or failed internal processes or systems, Liquidity risk is the risk that the Firm will be unable to meet its cash and collateral needs as they arise or that it will not have human factors or external events impacting the Firm’s processes or systems. We have integrated climate risk drivers into the appropriate amount, composition and tenor of funding and liquidity to support its assets and liabilities. The Firm’s our operational risk framework and associated firmwide resiliency"
"processes. Increasingly volatile and severe weather liquidity could be impaired by factors such as market-wide illiquidity or disruption, unanticipated outflows of cash or events, including more severe storms, flooding, heat and related impacts, such as drought and wildfires, may impact the collateral and lack of market or customer confidence in JPMorganChase or financial institutions in general. We use a likelihood and severity of a variety of existing operational risks. transition risk"
"scenario to assess the potential impact on the Firm’s liquidity. We evaluate potential climate-driven impacts through ongoing assessments of operational risks to employees and customers, our facilities, property and service providers and our business activities. Evaluations are documented and may also inform the firmwide risk identification framework, which centrally captures risks across all risk types. As an example, we use these risks to develop business disruption threat scenarios that"
"inform business resiliency planning, testing and simulation exercises. This, in turn, allows us to assess the adequacy of our resiliency capabilities and identify potential Climate-related country risk vulnerabilities and opportunities for enhancement. These activities, along with other factors, help further our management and mitigation of climate-driven impacts. The Firm, through its LOBs and Corporate, may be exposed to country risk resulting from financial, economic, We have also developed"
"the global Climate Location Site Assessment (“CLSA”) process, which considers the risks to, and political or other significant developments which adversely affect the value of the Firm’s exposures related to a resiliency of, the Firm’s infrastructure to the impacts of climate change. This process is completed by metro area and is particular country or set of countries. Climate change’s adverse effects can influence a country’s economic, fiscal, prioritized by key operational locations and the"
"projected severity of impacts of physical climate change. The CLSAs monetary or political frameworks in various ways, potentially affecting its sovereign credit ratings. At a country-level, provide resiliency-related information to support firmwide processes, including risk identification and business resiliency we have integrated climate risk considerations into our existing sovereign ratings, where appropriate, and have planning exercises. developed a scoring method to assess the potential"
"sensitivity of sovereign ratings to climate risks beyond the standard rating horizon or specific stress scenarios. Additionally, in the U.S., we assess the impact of physical climate risk on the insurance and municipal bond markets in certain states where the Firm has significant exposures. 2024 Sustainability Report 56 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management"
"Appendices Managing nature and social risks An important component of risk management at JPMorganChase is assessing our clients’ Guiding N&S principles approach to, and performance on, nature and social (“N&S”) matters. N&S risk refers to the risk of actual or potential adverse impacts on the physical environment (such as biodiversity, air, soil and water) and society at-large (including labor and working conditions, health, safety, Where we deem appropriate, we consider a range of"
"internationally-recognized principles to inform our approach to managing certain security, Indigenous Peoples and human rights), as a result of action or inaction by the Firm’s N&S risks. These include: clients and their associated activities and transactions. • International Finance Corporation Performance Standards, including Performance Standard 7 on Indigenous Peoples, and World The Firm makes risk-informed decisions that seek to promote our commercial interests, Bank Environmental, Health &"
"Safety Guidelines preserve our brand and advance the interests of our shareholders. When N&S risks • Relevant International Capital Markets Association / Loan Market Association principles such as the Green Bond Principles, significantly manifest in our clients’ activities and transactions, and the client’s response or Sustainability Linked Loan Principles, Social / Sustainability / Sustainability Linked Bond Principles mitigation efforts are insufficient, it can lead to public scrutiny and pose"
"risks to the Firm’s broader commercial interests. Client and transaction decisions are made on an • UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights individualized basis. • UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights The Firm’s N&S risk management approach is supported by the following activities: • Screening to identify N&S risks: LOBs screen relevant clients and transactions leveraging i) our N&S Risk Taxonomy, which identifies the potential N&S risks that JPMorganChase clients and transactions"
"may be associated with through their impact on workers, Our approach to managing risks related to Indigenous Peoples communities, nature and resources, and ii) client activity criteria, which include activities and locations that we recognize as having a higher likelihood of exposure to N&S risks. JPMorganChase recognizes that Indigenous Peoples have identities that are distinct from majority populations in national societies and are Transactions can include general corporate purpose financing,"
"asset-specific financing and often among the most marginalized and vulnerable segments of the population. Where relevant and as appropriate, the Firm considers a range capital facilitation activities. of internationally recognized principles to inform its approach, including the International Finance Corporation (“IFC”) Performance Standards that address the treatment of Indigenous Peoples and include the principles of Free, Prior, and informed Consent (“FPIC”), and may engage with • Assessment"
"of N&S risks: where existing or potential risks have been identified, the Firm clients concerning alignment with these internationally recognized principles. performs due diligence to facilitate a comprehensive understanding of the associated risks, including determining the severity of these risks, the client’s ability to manage them, and Our policies and standards require that LOBs assess, as appropriate, the following risks related to the rights of Indigenous Peoples, which are the level of"
"residual risk to the Firm and our commercial interests. Where we determine outlined in the N&S Risk Taxonomy: appropriate, the Firm reviews a client’s approach, capacity and track record to manage the • Lack of implementation of FPIC. risks relevant to its activities, including the client’s policies, governance, risk management and approaches to stakeholder engagement. • Adverse impacts to Indigenous Peoples’ health, safety, security and well-being. • Escalation for review and challenge: higher-"
"risk clients and transactions require escalation • Adverse impacts to Indigenous Peoples’ cultural heritage, including impacts to protected areas or areas designated for cultural value. by LOBs to a dedicated Risk Management function, which undertakes a review and • Loss of Indigenous Peoples’ land rights or disruption in access to resources or ecosystem services, and/or basic services (shelter, healthcare, challenge of the LOB’s assessment of these N&S risks. Clients presenting higher N&S risk"
"education, electricity, transportation, infrastructure) will only be supported on a case-by-case basis, in line with the Firm’s risk appetite and commercial interests. Where risks are identified, we engage with companies and may require them to take steps to address implications for Indigenous Peoples’ lands and natural resources with appropriate policies and procedures, including FPIC, before proceeding with a transaction, including general Please refer to pages 61 and 62 in our Sustainability"
"Report Appendices for more information corporate purpose, asset-specific financing and capital facilitation activities. on how we manage N&S risk for certain restricted activities, and client activities and locations considered in need of enhanced review.42 In 2025, we updated our Human Rights statement to reflect our approach to Indigenous Peoples’ human rights concerns. For more information, refer to our Human Rights Statement. 42 This reflects the Firm’s N&S risk management approach as at"
"October 15, 2025. 2024 Sustainability Report 57 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Managing financial crime Cybersecurity and data privacy and corruption risks As digital solutions continue to evolve and play a role in financial services and the economy as a whole, the risk of cyber- attacks and other threats to information security continues"
"to evolve and grow. The Firm and its subsidiaries are subject to laws, rules and regulations globally concerning data, including data protection, privacy and cybersecurity, among others. Cybersecurity and data privacy therefore remain top priorities for the Firm. The Firm has programs in place to address money laundering, sanctions evasions, bribery, corruption and other financial crimes and corruption risks. Our global Anti-Corruption Policy prohibits offering or giving anything of value to —"
"and soliciting or accepting anything of value from — anyone for a corrupt purpose, such as improper payments or benefits to Cybersecurity government officials or private parties for a business advantage. The program includes a governance structure managed by anti-corruption professionals with senior management oversight, training and awareness activities, and monitoring and Our firmwide Information Security Program (“ISP”) is designed to enable us to prevent, detect and respond to cyber- testing"
"for compliance. Employees are required to complete anti-corruption training. attacks, and stop malicious actors from infiltrating our computer systems to destroy data, steal confidential information, disrupt service, disseminate ransomware or cause other damage to the Firm. The Firm’s cybersecurity incident response We also participate in international efforts to combat money laundering, sanctions evasions and the funding of terrorist plan is designed to allow us to respond to attempted"
"cybersecurity incidents, coordinate with law enforcement and notify activities. We have implemented a risk-based, global Anti-Money Laundering Compliance & Sanctions Program designed customers, when applicable. Our cybersecurity capabilities, governance and practices are based on recognized industry to comply with anti-money laundering and sanctions laws and regulations in the U.S. and other jurisdictions where we practices43. operate. We are also part of the Wolfsberg Group, an association of"
"banks that seeks to develop frameworks and guidance for the management of financial crime risks, including the foundational Wolfsberg Anti-Money Laundering Principles for Our first line of defense consists of each LOB and Corporate functions, which owns the risks, and identification of risks, Private Banking. associated with their respective activities and the design and execution of controls to manage those risks. We educate, train and test our employees in their respective LOBs on how to"
"identify potential cybersecurity risks, protect the Firm’s resources and information and report any unusual activity or incidents. Employees are required to complete periodic cybersecurity training and complete firmwide phishing tests. We also provide our clients and customers with resources and educational content to help them identify cyber risks and mitigate potential losses from cyber-related fraud. The Cybersecurity and Technology Controls Operating Committee (“CTOC”) oversees the Firm’s"
"assessment and management of cybersecurity risk, including oversight of the implementation and maintenance of controls in support of the Firm’s ISP. CTOC membership includes senior representatives from the Cybersecurity and Technology Controls organization (“CTC”) — responsible for the implementation of the Firm’s ISP — and relevant corporate functions, including Independent Risk Management (“IRM”) and Internal Audit. 43 Industry recognized practices include ISACA COBIT, ISO 27000 standards,"
"FFIEC guidance, the Information Security Forum Standard for Good Practice, NIST SP800-53 and BSIMIM. 2024 Sustainability Report 58 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices The Firm’s Board receives periodic updates concerning technology and cybersecurity risk matters, including information Information on how we collect and use personal information,"
"as well as rights that individuals may have with respect to regarding the Firm’s ISP, policies and practices, and any significant cybersecurity incidents and the efforts to address their personal information and how we exercise them, is available in our disclosures, on our websites and upon request them. For additional information concerning the Firm’s cybersecurity risk management and governance structure, please through multiple channels. refer to pages 155–156 of our Form 10-K for the year"
"ended December 31, 2024. Our Code of Conduct and related policies include guidelines on how employees should protect the confidential information We also contribute to efforts to build and maintain a safe and resilient global financial sector. We are a member of the of those we have relationships with, including consumers, employees, service providers, commercial businesses or Financial Services Information Sharing & Analysis Center, an intelligence-sharing cooperative that shares best practices"
"and government bodies. exercises to better secure the sector for the benefit of the public and the resiliency and integrity of financial institutions. We have established processes and procedures to report and respond to suspected or actual data privacy incidents that may compromise the confidentiality, integrity or availability of personal information, and we provide our employees with Data privacy tools to file incident reports using internal systems. We have processes to notify our"
"regulators, customers and other individuals when reportable incidents occur, as required The Firm manages all manner of personal and financial information, and we have processes designed to manage this data by applicable law. in accordance with the laws, rules and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate. We take a multi-faceted approach to addressing privacy and data protection risks, including maintaining and evolving our internal controls, We engage with lawmakers and civil"
"society on policy issues related to data protection and privacy, including the establishing policies covering all stages of the data lifecycle and deploying appropriate technology. development and modernization of U.S. federal and state privacy laws. We will continue to support policy that protects people and their personal information, promotes organizational accountability and enables beneficial data-driven innovation. Our global internal policy on personal information applies to our legal"
"entities and third parties that handle personal information on our behalf. The policy sets minimum requirements, including that personal information is processed for defined purposes. Data protection and privacy are key components of our global data risk management program, which focuses on compliance, operational risk oversight of data management, privacy governance, controls, and remediation activities in the Firm. Our privacy framework outlines roles and responsibilities, sets policies and"
"standards, directs advisory requests, and provides protocols for monitoring, reporting, and escalation of key privacy risks and issues. Our management, including our OC, and our Board receive periodic updates on the program. We also provide regular training and awareness to our workforce, not only on core privacy obligations and how to meet them but also on emerging risks, trends and new developments. 2024 Sustainability Report 59 Appendices Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy"
"and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Restricted activities, and client activities and locations subject to enhanced review | Absolute financed and facilitated emissions: PCAF-aligned metrics | 2024 Employer Information Report (EEO-1) | List of acronyms 2024 Sustainability Report 60 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger"
"communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Restricted activities, and client activities and locations subject to enhanced review The framework described on page 57 of the report details how the Firm makes risk-informed decisions that seek to • Impacts on Biodiversity and Ecosystems: Clients where we determine that there is substantiated evidence of illegal promote our commercial interests, protect our brand and advance the interests of our shareholders. It is the"
"Firm’s policy logging, illegal wildlife trafficking or evidence of intentional burning of tropical rainforest and/or peatlands for that it will not knowingly provide financial services to clients where it determines that there is substantiated evidence of agricultural purposes, and where we determine that such client has not put into place adequate practices and policies human rights violations and where such client has not put into place adequate practices and policies to remediate such to"
"remediate such activities. human rights abuses. • Asset-specific transactions: The information provided in this appendix reflects JPMorganChase independent approach to certain clients and • Project financing or other forms of asset-specific transactions related to the following Restricted Assets transactions. Decisions are made on an individualized basis. This information reflects the Firm’s approach as at defined below: October 15, 2025, and is subject to change without notice. We do not"
"undertake to update any such information. • New coal mine development or the acquisition, expansion and/or refinancing of an existing coal mine. Restricted activities – assessed on a case-by-case basis • New coal-fired power plant development or for the acquisition, expansion and/or refinancing of an existing coal- fired power plant. The following non-exhaustive list includes examples of restricted client activities and transactions that the Firm • Development within United Nations Educational,"
"Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) World Heritage independently determines to generally present higher N&S risks, for which the Firm considers on a case-by-case basis in Sites unless there is prior consensus from both the host government authorities and UNESCO that such line with its risk appetite and commercial interests. operations do not adversely affect the Outstanding Universal Value of the Site. • Coal mining: • New upstream, midstream or downstream oil and gas assets in the"
"Arctic Restricted Area (ARA)44, or the • Clients deriving the majority of their revenues from the extraction of coal. acquisition, expansion and/or refinancing of existing upstream, midstream or downstream oil and gas assets including the entire area within the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. • Clients involved in mountaintop mining or practices widely recognized to permanently harm the physical environment or biodiversity. • Unsustainable agricultural practices: Clients whose operations"
"involve practices that adversely impact the long-term availability of a natural resource or where harvesting or refining practices cause destruction of biodiversity or otherwise harm the physical environment or communities, and who have not put in place measures to mitigate or redress the impacts, including clients without membership or certification in, where applicable: • Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) or equivalent policies/practices • Roundtable on Responsible Soy (RTRS) or"
"equivalent policies/practices • Forestry Stewardship Council (FSC) or equivalent (e.g., Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI), Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC)). 44 The ARA is defined based on the 10° Celsius July Isotherm boundary, meaning the area does not experience temperatures above 10°C and for which the yearly average temperature is approximately 0°Celsius. 2024 Sustainability Report 61 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a"
"low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Activities and locations subject to enhanced review – assessed on a case-by-case basis The following non-exhaustive list includes examples of client activities and locations that we consider in need of enhanced review on a case-by-case basis to facilitate a comprehensive understanding of the associated risks. Due diligence for certain activities is limited to clients operating in"
"non-designated countries.45 • Coal mining: Clients involved in the ownership, development, construction or operation of coal mining concessions (both thermal and metallurgical). • Coal-fired power: Clients involved in the development, construction or operation of coal-fired power plants. • Trading of raw mineral resources as primary supply chain: Clients whose main business is the physical trading of conflict minerals (tantalum, tin, tungsten, gold - “3TG”), cobalt or diamonds. • Hydropower"
"(non-designated countries): Clients involved in the development, construction, or operation of hydropower generation projects. • Origination of agricultural commodities (non-designated countries): • Growing agricultural crops: Clients involved in the cultivation of agricultural crops including food crops, fiber crops, oil crops, beverage crops, spice and medicinal crops and industrial crops. This includes palm oil, soy, timber, cocoa, coffee, sugar, cotton, rubber and other crops. • Rearing of"
"livestock (including cattle): Clients involved in the raising of livestock, including cattle. • Commercial fishing and coastal / inland aquaculture: Clients involved in commercial fishing activities or coastal or inland aquaculture activities. • Downstream users of agricultural commodities (i.e., processing/refining and/or trading and distribution) (non- designated country operations or sourcing): • Processing/refining and/or trading of agricultural commodities and animal products: clients"
"involved in the refining or processing of agricultural commodities and animal products (including palm oil, soy, timber, cocoa). • Locations: • The Arctic46 • Amazon Biome47 45 Designated countries are deemed to have robust environmental and social governance, legislation systems and institutional capacity designed to protect their people and the natural environment. As a proxy for such an assessment, a designated country must be both a member of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and"
"Development (“OECD”) and appear on the World Bank High Income Country list. 46 For the broader Arctic region, JPMorganChase takes into consideration the guidance set out by the Arctic Monitoring and Assessment Program (“AMAP”). 47 The Amazon Biome is defined taking into consideration the guidance set out by the Amazon Network of Georeferenced Socio-Environmental Information (“RAISG”). 2024 Sustainability Report 62 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-"
"carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices Absolute financed and facilitated emissions: PCAF-aligned metrics48 We recognize the benefit of comparable industry-specific methodologies for measurement and disclosure of absolute financed and facilitated emissions. Although the methodologies are still evolving, we are disclosing in the table to the right PCAF- aligned absolute financed and facilitated emissions. We provide disclosure"
"on absolute financed and facilitated emissions for eight sectors of our financing portfolio in page 26. We have calculated these metrics using our own methodology — refer to our Carbon Compass® for additional information — which we believe calculates absolute financed and facilitated emission figures that correlate with real-world emissions performance of clients in our applicable sector portfolios. We continue to monitor evolving best practices for the financial sector to inform our own"
"approach and to provide information of interest to our stakeholders. PCAF-aligned absolute financed and facilitated emissions49 ABSOLUTE FINANCED AND FACILITATED EMISSIONS ECONOMIC INTENSITY DATA (million tCO e)iii (per US $1 million of lending/capital markets)viii SECTORi SCOPE(S) INCLUDEDii 2 QUALITY SCORES For outstanding lending (financed For capital markets (facilitated For outstanding lending (financed For capital markets (facilitated (1–5)ix emissions)iv, v emissions)vi, vii emissions)"
"emissions) Energy Mix Scope 3 (end use) 19.3 30.9 3,709.2 1,357.6 3.1 Oil & Gas Operational Scopes 1 and 2 0.8 1.8 242.5 129.8 3.1 Electric Power Scope 1 1.9 3.0 621.8 161.0 3.2 Auto Manufacturing Scopes 1, 2 and 3 (tank-to-wheel) 0.2 0.4 853.0 177.9 3.0 Aviation Scope 1 (tank-to-wake) 0.1 0.3 601.5 268.0 3.0 Shipping Scope 1 (tank-to-wake) 0.04 0.07 251.1 84.7 3.1 Iron & Steel Scopes 1 and 2 0.6 0.9 1,444.6 683.0 1.1 Cement Scopes 1 and 2 0.5 0.1 1,954.1 188.2 1.3 Aluminum Scopes 1 and 2 0.1"
"0.3 970.2 650.4 3.0 i. The sectors included in this table align with the sectors covered by our Carbon Compass® for our potfolio-level carbon intensity targets. vi. “Absolute facilitated emissions” are defined as the total GHG emissions associated with capital markets activity facilitated by a financial institution and is calculated as total amount raised in the capital market transaction multiplied by the volume attributed to the financial institution (based on its participation), divided by"
"EVIC. ii. The scopes included in this table align with the scopes included in our Carbon Compass® and represent scopes for which appropriate emissions data is available. This figure is then multiplied by a weighing factor (33%) and by company emissions. iii. The absolute financed and facilitated emissions in this table utilized the proxy methodology described in our Carbon Compass® when emissions data is not readily vii. The absolute facilitated emissions in this table include securitized"
"products, green bonds, TOI syndications and exclude syndicated loans within the sectors listed. available. These proxy calculations are derived based on in-scope clients with committed exposure for lending, as well as capital markets exposure. viii.Economic intensity is calculated as absolute financed or facilitated emissions in metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents per million dollars loaned or facilitated. iv. “Absolute financed emissions” are defined as the total GHG emissions of an asset"
"class or portfolio and is calculated as outstanding exposure divided by company’s value multiplied by company emissions. When enterprise value including cash (“EVIC”) is unavailable, we use the sum of total company equity and debt ix. Data quality scores are assigned depending on the quality of data available for each client, with 1 representing highest quality and 5 representing lowest quality. We as found on the company’s balance sheet. If equity value is negative, it is treated as zero. Per"
"the PCAF standard, outstanding exposure represents the amount of calculate and report a weighted average data quality score for each sector based on the financing provided to each client relative to our total financing to the the loan the borrower has drawn as of the year-end date. sector. Refer to our Carbon Compass® to learn more. v. The absolute financed emissions in this table include wholesale credit (excluding overdrafts) to clients within the sectors listed. 48 This section presents"
"disclosure of absolute financed and facilitated emissions intended to align with PCAF, with the exception of the deviations as footnoted throughout the table. 49 The figures in the table only consider the in-scope clients per our Carbon Compass®. 2024 Sustainability Report 63 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices The table below summarizes main"
"deviations of our Carbon Compass® from PCAF’s methodology. Carbon Compass® PCAF methodology Reasons for deviation Using 12-month monthly average enables us to capture the impact of short- 12-mo monthly average committed Lending Year-end outstanding balance term obligations, such as bridge loans, which frequently have terms of less financing than one year. 12-mo monthly average outstanding As one of the top investors in renewable energy tax-oriented investments in Tax-oriented investments balance"
"and recapture activity; 3-year Not covered the U.S., we believe including tax-oriented investments best captures our rolling average for syndications financing impact. Including 100% of our share in capital markets activity allows us to provide a more complete picture of our financing activity and how we are supporting 100% of capital markets activity on a 33% of all capital market issuances in our clients through capital markets facilitation. In addition, we include all Capital markets 3-year"
"rolling average basis scope on a yearly basis capital markets activity we participate in, regardless of bookrunner status, with the aim of providing a more comprehensive view of our overall exposure to facilitated emissions. Capital 3-year average EVIC; if unavailable End-of-period EVIC; if unavailable Using a three-year average of capital structure helps us reduce distortion structure 3-year average Debt + Equity End-of-period Debt + Equity due to the effect of volatility on company valuations."
"2024 Sustainability Report 64 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices 2024 Employer Information Report (EEO-1) The information according to Equal Employment Opportunity (“EEO”) race/ethnicity categories and gender is based on U.S. employees who self-identified and is as of December 16, 2024. RACE/ETHNICITY Hispanic or Latino Not Hispanic or Latino"
"Male Female ROW JOB CATEGORIES TOTAL Native Native Male Female Black or American Black or American Hawaiian or Two or More Hawaiian or Two or More White African Asian Indian or White African Asian Indian or Other Pacific Races Other Pacific Races American Alaska Native American Alaska Native Islander Islander Executive/Senior Level 168 85 2,124 124 374 1 2 33 855 77 204 — 2 19 4,068 Officials and Managers First/Mid-Level Officials 2,449 2,690 12,529 1,679 7,528 51 33 389 9,937 2,372 4,129 41 35"
"429 44,291 and Managers Professionals 4,056 3,678 14,493 3,196 8,006 52 56 729 10,469 4,316 6,790 46 64 720 56,671 Sales Workers 3,910 2,772 7,745 1,311 1,844 66 29 369 4,085 902 1,869 34 19 234 25,189 Administrative 5,245 13,179 3,816 2,232 1,093 46 42 386 10,078 7,574 2,496 132 139 897 47,355 Support Workers Otheri 87 18 136 62 67 — — 9 22 34 6 — — 4 445 CURRENT 2024 15,915 22,422 40,843 8,604 18,912 216 162 1,915 35,446 15,275 15,494 253 259 2,303 178,019 REPORTING YEAR TOTAL PRIOR 2023"
"REPORTING 15,032 21,690 40,668 8,480 18,400 220 167 1,855 36,054 15,379 15,114 279 271 2,339 175,948 YEAR TOTAL i Other is inclusive of Technicians, Service Workers, Craft Workers, Operatives, and Laborers and Helpers 2024 Sustainability Report 65 Introduction Supporting secure and affordable energy and a transition to a low-carbon economy Supporting stronger communities, customers and employees Governance Risk management Appendices List of acronyms AI Artificial Intelligence e-waste Electronic"
"waste MW Megawatts AWM Asset & Wealth Management FEC The Firmwide Environmental Committee MWh Megawatt-hour BHL Black, Hispanic and Latino FPIC Free, Prior, and Informed Consent N&S Nature and Social BRG Business Resource Group FSC Forest Stewardship Council NGFS Network for Greening the Financial System CAF Carbon Assessment Framework gCO Grams of carbon dioxide NGOs Nonprofit Organizations 2 CB Commercial Banking gCO e Grams of carbon dioxide equivalent NMTC New Markets Tax Credit 2 CCB"
"Consumer & Community Banking GEB Green Economy Banking OC Operating Committee CCUS Carbon Capture, Utilization and Storage GHG Greenhouse gas PCAF Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials CDFIs Community Development Financial Institutions GRI Global Reporting Initiative PEFC Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certification CDR Carbon Dioxide Removals HTC Historic Tax Credit PPAs Power Purchase Agreements CEO Chief Executive Officer IEA NZE International Energy Agency Net Zero Emissions by"
"2050 Scenario Project Roundtable for Economic Access and Change CFO Chief Financial Officer Scenario REACH CIB Commercial & Investment Bank IFC International Finance Corporation RECs Renewable Energy Certificates CLSA Climate Location Site Assessment IFM Improved Forest Management RSPO Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil CO Carbon dioxide IPCC Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change RTK Revenue tonne-kilometers 2 CO e Carbon dioxide equivalent ISP Information Security Program RTRS Roundtable on"
"Responsible Soy 2 CP The NGFS Current Policies ISSB International Sustainability Standards Board SASB Sustainability Accounting Standards Board CRO Chief Risk Officer JPM DFI J.P. Morgan Development Finance Institution SDT Sustainable Development Target CTC Cybersecurity and Technology Controls JPMAM J.P. Morgan Asset Management SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission CTOC Cybersecurity and Technology Controls Operating Committee kgCO Kilograms of carbon dioxide SFI Sustainable Forestry"
"Initiative 2 DFI Development Finance Institution km Kilometer t Metric ton DOI Diversity, Opportunity & Inclusion LGBTQ+ Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer plus tCO Metric ton of carbon dioxide 2 DFSA Development Finance Structuring Agent LIHTC Low Income Housing Tax Credit tCO e Metric ton of carbon dioxide equivalent 2 E&P Exploration & Production LMI Low-to-Moderate Income TCFD Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures EACs Energy Attribute Certificates LOB Line of Business"
"t-nm Metric ton - nautical mile EEO Equal Employment Opportunity M&A Merger and Acquisitions TCFD Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures ESFR Energy Supply Financing Ratio MJ Megajoule UN SDGs United Nations Sustainable Development Goals ESG Environmental, Social and Governance MSFCP Money Smart Financial Coaching Program U.K. United Kingdom EVs Electric Vehicles mt Metric ton U.S. United States EVIC Enterprise Value Including Cash mtCO e Metric ton of carbon dioxide equivalent 2"
"2024 Sustainability Report 66"
