"Resilient. 2024 Sustainable Development Report O2 H2 CO2 NO N2 Ne O2 Kr Xe Ar He   Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 03 04       Message from our CEO 06         Letter from VP, Sustainability 07       How We Create Economic, Environmental   and Social Value 08     About Linde 10  Business Model 13       Sustainability Reporting Foundations: Frameworks        & Transparency 15       Materiality, Priorities and Targets 16  Sustainable Development Targets 19      Climate Change—Challenge &"
"Opportunity 22       Walking the Talk: Linde’s Clean Energy Progress 24      Performance Towards Targets 29  Governance 31   Risk Management 32      Engaging Stakeholders 36        Stakeholder Groups Engaged by the Organization 38       Economic Topics 48      Environmental Topics 66         Social Topics 94        Sustainability Data Summary 97  Assurance 101  GRI Content Index 110 ISSB/TCFD Index 111       TNFD Index 113  SASB Index GRI References Linde has reported in accordance with the GRI"
"Standards for the period January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024. GRI Standards are referenced  throughout and an index is provided starting on page 101. Forward-Looking Statements This document contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward- looking statements are identified by terms and phrases such as: anticipate, believe, intend, estimate, expect, continue, should, could, may, plan,  project, predict, will,"
"potential, forecast and similar expressions. They are based on management’s reasonable expectations and assumptions as of the  date the statements are made but involve risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation: the performance of stock  markets generally; developments in worldwide and national economies and other international events and circumstances, including trade conflicts  and tariffs; changes in foreign currencies and in interest rates; the cost"
"and availability of electric power, natural gas and other raw materials; the  ability to achieve price increases to offset cost increases; catastrophic events including natural disasters, epidemics, pandemics such as C0VID-19, and  acts of war and terrorism; the ability to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel; the impact of changes in financial accounting standards; the impact  of changes in pension plan liabilities; the impact of tax, environmental, healthcare and other legislation and"
"government regulation in jurisdictions  in which the company operates; the cost and outcomes of investigations, litigation and regulatory proceedings; the impact of potential unusual or  non-recurring items; continued timely development and market acceptance of new products and applications; the impact of competitive products and  pricing; future financial and operating performance of major customers and industries served; the impact of information technology system failures,  network"
"disruptions and breaches in data security; and the effectiveness and speed of integrating new acquisitions into the business. These risks and  uncertainties may cause future results or circumstances to differ materially from adjusted projections, estimates or other forward-looking statements. Linde plc assumes no obligation to update or provide revisions to any forward-looking statement in response to changing circumstances. The above  listed risks and uncertainties are further described in Item"
"1A. Risk Factors in Linde plc’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024 filed  with the SEC on February 26, 2025 which should be reviewed carefully. Please consider Linde plc’s forward-looking statements in light of those risks. Table of Contents  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 04 2-22 In 2024, Linde continued to advance our mission of making our world more productive, sustainably across a number of key areas. In the communities  our people call home, colleagues"
"personally supported over 800 local community projects worldwide– a significant increase from the 600 projects  completed in 2023. This momentum and unwavering support underscore the passion of more than 65,000 Linde colleagues around the world given  that employees also successfully navigated a challenging macroeconomic environment to deliver industry-leading financial results in the same period. As a responsible corporate citizen, Linde reduced absolute greenhouse gas emissions in 2024 by"
"increasing low-carbon power consumption to 47%  of our total consumption. We also helped our customers operate more efficiently and successfully while helping them reduce their greenhouse  gas emissions. In 2024, Linde enabled our customers to avoid more than 96 million metric tons of CO₂e, more than double the emissions that Linde  generated from its operations. These results received  continued external recognition with inclusion in the Dow Jones Best-In- Class World Index for  the 22 nd"
"consecutive year, the S&P Sustainability Yearbook, and Ethisphere’s World’s Most Ethical Companies® list for the fifth consecutive year. While this recognition validates the core values we endeavor to exemplify each day, our people are never satisfied with the status quo. Continuous improvement is a hallmark of the Linde culture and our bold sustainability targets illuminate our path forward. In 2024, we introduced a  new Water Withdrawal Intensity target aimed at reducing water withdrawal at"
"sites in scope for Water Management Plans 20% by 2035. At the same  time, 451 of our sites diverted 90% or more of their waste from landfills as part of Linde’s Zero Waste program— beating our 2028 goal of 450 sites  four years early! Those sites prevented 200 million pounds of waste from reaching landfills. We also delivered measurable progress against existing  targets such as our “35 by 35” target for a 35% absolute reduction in Scope 1 & 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 2035. Clearly, we’re not"
"just imagining  a sustainable future—we’re building it to leave a lasting, positive impact on the planet for generations to come. I am privileged to lead Linde, where so many talented and diverse individuals work tirelessly and collaboratively to drive innovation and efficiency.  Together, we are making our mission a reality, and improving the quality of life for the communities, customers and stakeholders we serve. Sanjiv Lamba Chief Executive Officer Message from our CEO “I am privileged to"
"lead Linde, where so many  talented and diverse individuals work tirelessly  and collaboratively to drive innovation and  efficiency. Together, we are making our  mission come to life and improving the quality  of life for the communities, customers and  stakeholders we serve.”   Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 05 Achievements External Recognition and ESG Ratings Diverted more than 200 million pounds of waste from landfills Provided philanthropic  support to more than 1,600"
"organizations globally Achieved 77% Inclusion  score on employee survey Benefitted more than 360,000  people through employee  community engagement projects Saved more than 350 million  gallons of water through  sustainability initiatives Sourced 47% of electricity from low-carbon and  renewable resources Helped customers avoid  approximately 96 million metric  tons of equivalent carbon dioxide Best-in-class safety  performance Sustainable Development 2025 Sustainability Yearbook S&P Global top"
"10% global ESG score,  Chemicals ISS ESG Maintained Prime rating MSCI Maintained A rating Ethisphere Institute 0ne of World’s Most Ethical  Companies by Ethisphere Institute FTSE4Good Constituent for 9 th consecutive year Forbes 2024 Forbes 2024 World’s Top Companies for  Women S&P Dow Jones Best-in-Class Constituent of Dow Jones Best-in-Class  for the 22nd consecutive year, ranked  99 th percentile, #1 in industrial gases CDP Maintained leadership level for Climate  (A-) and earned management"
"level for  Water Security (B)  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 06 2-22 At Linde, Sustainability is embedded in everything we do, shaping how we innovate, grow, and  strengthen the communities we call home. For over two decades, this pragmatic approach has  fostered efficiency improvements, improved local and global communities, and consistently  delivered exceptional results—all while enabling our customers to avoid more than twice the  emissions we generate globally. In 2024, this"
"dedication drove impressive progress, including an increase in community engagement  projects from nearly 600 to over 800— a true testament to the commitment of Linde colleagues  across our organization. The year also marked the launch of four ambitious targets addressing critical  priorities such as water stewardship, waste management, and climate change. These initiatives  further embed sustainability into Linde operations and strengthen our long-term vision for 2035,  2050, and beyond. As we"
"all navigate complex challenges, Linde remains committed to decisive action. Building upon  the strong foundation we’ve established; we will continue fostering an environment that drives  exceptional performance, empowers customers to enhance efficiency and reduce emissions, creates  meaningful value for our stakeholders, and advances a more resilient, sustainable future for all. Thank you for being part of this journey. Together, we can achieve shared progress and make a  lasting impact for"
"generations to come. Erin Catapano Vice President, Sustainability Letter from VP, Sustainability  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 07 How We Create Economic, Environmental  and Social Value Employees A global corporation with a presence in more than 80 countries •  Supported 65,289 employees globally with personnel  expenses totaling $5.9 billion in 2024, including salaries,  benefits, retirement contributions and pensions, and  share-based compensation. Talent, Inclusion & Engagement •"
"Achieved 78% employee engagement score with 77% for  inclusion. •       9 global Employee Resource Groups supporting inclusion  and driving awareness. Commitment to safety: Nearly 6 million hours of safety  training delivered in 2024 to employees and contractors •        Achieved Lost Workday Case Rate (LWCR) more than 11  times better than the U.S. 0ccupational Health and Safety  Administration all industries industrial average. The icons on this page refer to the United Nations Sustainable"
"Development Goals. * Adjusted after-tax return on capital is a non-GAAP measure. For definition and reconciliation, please see Appendix to the  Investor Teleconference Presentation Fourth Quarter 2024. ** C0₂e: C0₂ equivalents *** GHG: Greenhouse gas Customers and Investors Shareholder focus •         Returned $7.1 billion to shareholders through dividends  and share repurchases, net of issuances. Customer-centric, disciplined operations •    Adjusted after-tax return on capital*: 25.9 percent •"
"Industry-leading sale of gas project backlog of  $7.1 billion. Local business model •   Linde manufactures and distributes nearly all its products  and manages more than 2 million industrial customers on  a regional basis. Natural Resources Resource productivity •        Delivered productivity in-line with business strategic objectives •     Realized $259 million savings from sustainable productivity,  including avoiding an estimated 352 million gallons of  water usage and 1 million MT CO₂e**."
"Carbon footprint reduction •         20 TWh low-carbon energy sourced  (47 percent of all energy). •         Enabled 96 million MT CO₂e GHG*** emissions to be avoided  by customers from five of Linde‘s key technologies. Risk-based water management •    Enabled more than 253 million people to have access to  safe drinking water through gases used for water treatment  and desalination. Society Commitment to ethics and integrity •      Maintained strong compliance culture through Code of  Business"
"Integrity, which has been implemented globally. $11.7 million in funding for social projects and initiatives •   Supported more than 1,600 organizations in 60 countries. 80,000 employee volunteer hours contributed •  Impacted 360,000 people, including 90,000 children  and students, executing 821 employee community  engagement projects. Healthcare business •  Linde is a leading provider of respiratory therapy products  and services.  Innovation Technology innovation •  Installing Linde’s"
"OPTIMELT™ TCR technology and VITRON® VPSA oxygen plant at O-I’s glass facility. This significantly cuts fuel consumption, Scope 1 CO₂  emissions, and power usage for sustainable glass manufacturing. •     Collaborating with CEMEX on a large-scale CCUS project. Linde’s HISORP® CO₂ capture technology will capture 1.3 million metric tons of CO₂ annually at their  cement plant, advancing decarbonization efforts. •        Successfully demonstrated with BASF, SABIC and Linde STARBRIDGE™ electrified"
"steam cracker technology. This innovation enables low-carbon ethylene  production, reducing Scope 1 emissions by over 95%. •       Installing two electrolysis EPC projects for a total of 300 MW, utilizing Linde HYPEM™ 10 MW modularized PEM electrolysis core units and balance of plant  concepts. These projects will produce green hydrogen, advancing sustainable energy infrastructure. •         Commercialized Linde HyDiET, an AI-based diagnostic and efficiency tool, at five hydrogen facilities. It"
"optimizes plant performance, identifies issues, and  recommends solutions, thereby, reducing the overall carbon footprint. •   Commissioned the Linde Low Carbon LNG Demonstration Project in partnership with Emissions Reduction Alberta. This collaboration explores sustainable  solutions for reduced carbon LNG production.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 08 About Linde Mission, Vision and Values  Linde’s Sustainable Development Report (SDR) demonstrates how we  deliver on our mission of"
"making our world more productive, sustainably. We live our mission every day by providing high-quality solutions,  technologies and services that are making our customers more successful  and helping to sustain and protect our planet. 0ur vision is to be the best performing global industrial gases and  engineering company, where our people deliver innovative and  sustainable solutions for our customers in a connected world. Linde’s values are Safety, Integrity, Community, Inclusion and"
"Accountability. Ethics and Integrity 2-23 Responsible corporate governance is a key prerequisite for Linde’s  business. This means ensuring compliance with the law, rules and  regulations and voluntary commitments. Linde strives continuously to  achieve its goals ethically and with the highest integrity. Interaction  between management, employees and Linde’s business partners is  expected to be transparent and respectful, consistent with our Code of  Business Integrity (CBI). Linde’s governance"
"of ethics and integrity is  described in the Management Approach section under Economic Topics. Organization Linde is a leading global industrial gases and engineering company  with 2024 sales of $33 billion. The reporting currency is the U.S. dollar.  All amounts are shown in U.S. dollars ($), unless stated otherwise. The  company employs more than 65,000 people globally and serves a diverse  group of industries in more than 80 countries. Approximately 89 percent of Linde’s 2024 sales were"
"generated from  industrial gases operations in three geographic segments-Americas;  Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific (APAC). The  remaining 11 percent is related primarily to the Engineering segment,  and to a lesser extent, other. Business Model 2-6 Linde’s business model is to transform air and other process gases into  applications that, in many cases, help customers become more energy-  and resource-efficient or provide social benefits. Linde’s industrial gas processes"
"transform natural resources into  environmental and social value and impact; see the Business Model table,  pages 10 and 11. Principal business operations are to make atmospheric  gases from raw materials in the air, using electricity and process gases,  mainly hydrogen, from natural gas or industry byproducts, together with  steam. The outputs of these processes, or our product applications, serve  multiple end markets. More than two-thirds of sales are underpinned  by fixed fees and/or"
"resilient end markets (e.g., healthcare, food and  beverage, electronics), as well as portions of sales to chemicals and  energy, metals and manufacturing, which provide some protection from  economic cycles. Many of Linde’s applications bring environmental, economic and social  benefits to our customers, communities and the planet. 0ur “sustainability  portfolio” applications are shown in the “0utputs” rows, by end market.  The benefits that they enable are shown in the “0utcomes” rows, by gas."
"In 2024, Linde generated 54 percent of gases revenue, or $16 billion,  from its Sustainability Portfolio. The Sustainability Portfolio includes sales  from Linde’s eco-portfolio and social portfolio. The eco-portfolio includes  applications that have environmental and social benefits, such as oxygen  for blast furnaces, which help steelmakers save energy; hydrogen helps oil  refiners to make ultra-low sulfur diesel (ULSD) which  improves air quality;  and oxygen and carbon dioxide for wastewater"
"treatment, desalination  and aquaculture. Linde’s high-performance surface coatings help improve  energy efficiency in jet engines and machine turbines. The social portfolio  (1) Total sales, excluding Linde Engineering  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 09 includes applications with social benefits. Examples are oxygen for  respiratory care and helium for MRI technology. These outcomes deliver  multiple longer-term impacts and sustainable business value. For more information about the"
"company’s business model, products and  services, visit https://www.linde.com/. Creating Economic, Environmental and Social Value 2-6 Linde’s business model creates additional enduring value that amplifies  our mission of making our world more productive and how we do so  sustainably. The Business Model table shows a range of Linde’s inputs and activities,  as well as associated outputs and outcomes. Clearly, there are also  additional positive impacts from efforts at Linde beyond those"
"described  in the Business Model table. For example, Linde values the safety of its  employees and contractors and invested more than 6 million hours of  safety training in 2024. 0ne outcome of this effort is that Linde’s safety  record is several times better than industry benchmarks, which gives us  confidence that our employees and contractors return home safely at the  end of their day. Linde’s products contribute positively to the health and wellbeing of our  customers. Home care and"
"hospital patients worldwide benefit from our  medical gases, devices, services and therapies, especially in respiratory  care.  Linde gases also play an important role in tackling the global challenge of  access to clean water. An ever-growing population and industrial activity,  along with stringent environmental regulations, puts additional pressure  on wastewater treatment plants across the globe to treat increasing  volumes of wastewater. Adding oxygen effectively increases plant  capacity."
"As access to drinking water becomes more scarce, the market  for desalination has expanded, particularly in drought-susceptible areas.  Carbon dioxide, which is often sourced from industry byproducts, can be  used in the re-mineralization step as a safer alternative to mineral acids. In Australia and other regions, Linde-supplied carbon dioxide is used in  the desalination process of water for municipal water supplies. In 2024,  Linde gases enabled more than 253 million people to have access to"
"safe  drinking water, which is approximately 11 percent higher than the 2023  impact. The long-term impact of these activities is difficult to measure or  attribute directly to one company. However, we can demonstrate how  they contribute to the 17 global United Nations Sustainable Development  Goals or “Global Goals” (UN SDGs) introduced by the UN to eradicate  poverty, protect the planet and guarantee prosperity for all by 2030. The  icons in the table on page 7 show the SDGs most relevant to"
"Linde, which  are referenced in Linde’s Sustainable Development targets.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 10 Business Model 2-6 This chart provides some examples of the applications and benefits from some of Linde’s products. Inputs Product Stewardship Managing environmental and safety considerations across the product lifecycle, from raw material sourcing and supplier  engagement through operations, distribution and customer use. Business Operations Products Activities Examples of"
"environmental,  economic and  social benefits Outcomes Delivering Sustainable Value (see page 7) Impact Outputs Atmospheric Gases Ne N₂ O₂ Ar Kr Xe 2024 End Markets (% sales) Metals & Mining (13%) Other  (8%) Chemicals & Energy (22%) Electronics (9%) Healthcare (17%) Manufacturing (22%) Food & Beverage (9%) Hypoxia Fuel Autoclave Welding, window  insulation Lighting,  aerospace  propulsion Window insulation,  lighting, aerospace  propulsion Water treatment Refinery  processing &  water treatment"
"Inerting,  blanketing,  purging Steelmaking,  glass, non-ferrous  metal processing Inerting, metals  processing Stainless steel  production Inerting Lithography Modified  Atmosphere  Packaging,  aquaculture Freezing, chilling,  preservation Human health and safety, productivity, product quality   Fewer emissions of NOx, SOx, VOCs More energy-  efficient industrial  production Safety Fewer GHG  emissions More energy  efficiency Breathing  applications More efficient  windows Laser eye  treatment"
"Cleaner drinking  water, medical O₂ Freezing &   preserving food,  medical samples Examples of Significant  Product Applications Eco & Joint Eco and Social  Benefits Portfolio Social Benefits Portfolio Raw Materials Air and Electricity  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 11 Delivering Sustainable Value (see page 7) Metals and Metalloids Natural Gas or Industry  Byproducts, Water (Steam) Industry Byproduct,  Natural Wells Byproducts from  Natural Gas Processing Process & Spec Gases He CO₂"
"H₂ Other Products (including Surface Coatings) Materials Medical Gas, MRIs Fuel Welding Welding Coatings Water treatment Diesel & gasoline  reformulation & manufacture  of ammonia, methanol Replacing acids in industrial  processes; synthesis &  separation; carbon capture Leak detection Coatings Heat treatment of stainless steel Cleaning & inerting Inerting Electronics processing Cryogenic freezing Beverage carbonation Laboratories Human health and safety, productivity, product quality  Fewer"
"emissions of NOx, SOx, VOCs Fewer black carbon and GHG  emissions Cleaner manufacturing Fewer environmental  releases Improved product durability,  essential for solar PV Better air quality Water treatment &  desalination MRIs, LCDs, diving gases,  airbags Chrome cadmium replacement Key: Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); Volatile organic compound (VOC); Liquid crystal display (LCD)  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 12 Living the Mission: The Faces of Linde  Linde 2024 Sustainable"
"Development Report 13 Sustainability Reporting Foundations:  Frameworks & Transparency Precautionary Principle or Approach 2-23  Linde supports the Precautionary Principle as defined in Principle 15 of the  Rio Declaration: “In order to protect the environment, the precautionary  approach shall be widely applied by States according to their capabilities.  Where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage, lack of full  scientific certainty shall not be used as a reason for postponing"
"cost- effective measures to prevent environmental degradation.” External Initiatives 2-23, 2-24  Linde’s CBI and corporate policies are provided on its website at:  https://www.linde.com. •  Linde’s CBI makes clear its commitment to values such as ethics,  integrity, fairness, inclusion, compliance and human rights. •        Linde’s CBI and Human Rights Policy also confirm that Linde abides  by the principles of the International Bill of Human Rights enacted by  the United Nations and does not"
"condone or engage in discrimination;  harassment; violations of privacy; slavery or servitude; restrictions  on free assembly; or unfair employment practices. Linde commits  to adhering to these human rights principles and expects similar  standards to be observed by all with whom it conducts business.  Linde’s Human Rights Policy is provided on the company’s website  at: https://www.linde.com/sustainability/policies-and-position- statements/human-rights-policy •         Linde is a participant"
"in the UN Global Compact. •      Linde’s global environment, health, safety and security program  conforms to the Responsible Care Management System® (RCMS®)  requirements, as verified by a third party. Management is committed  to the Responsible Care Global Charter and its Six Elements, and to  the Responsible Care Guiding Principles that are stated in Linde’s  Commitment. Both are provided on the company’s website at:  https://www.linde.com/about-linde/safety. Entities Included in the"
"Consolidated Financial Statements See the 2024 Annual Report (10-K) for consolidated financial statements. Defining Report Content and Topic Boundaries 3-1 Linde’s annual Sustainable Development Report provides additional  quantitative and qualitative non-financial information the company  believes to be relevant to stakeholders and key to driving long-term  sustainable results and disclosures based on the Global Reporting Initiative  (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards. In the"
"sustainability reporting ecosystem, the GRI Sustainability Reporting  Standards are one of several key frameworks and standards for voluntary  disclosure. They are designed to provide sustainability information of  relevance to a broad range of stakeholders, such as employees and  potential employees, communities, customers, suppliers, regulators and the  general public. Linde is also aligned with other reporting frameworks; see  the “Reporting Frameworks Applied” section. This report scope is"
"Linde plc as consolidated for financial reporting  purposes and covers calendar year 2024. Information is also provided from entities where Linde is the majority  shareholder (more than 50 percent) and certain other joint ventures (JVs).  It excludes data from entities where Linde has a minority interest. 2-2 Principles for Defining Report Content and Quality Consistent with the GRI Standards and to define the content and the quality  of data and narrative in this report, the company followed"
"the principles  of being context-driven, inclusive, material, responsive and complete, and  had data externally assured in Priority Factor (PF) areas. Data Consolidation and Reporting Various databases are managed across Linde to aggregate data. Data is  collected from the businesses and other corporate functions, including  Safety, Health, Environment and Quality (SHEQ); Human Resources (HR);  Finance, 0perations; and the Center of Excellence (COE), which includes  Productivity, Procurement,"
"Research and Development (R&D), Sales,  Sustainable Development (SD) and the Global Giving Program. Consolidated  information is housed in various corporate databases. Linde uses a  licensed global sustainability reporting software program to integrate data  reporting for sustainable development. Performance data is reported against all Linde Sustainable Development  targets to the management team. See the introductions to the respective chapters for management  discussion and analysis (MDMA)"
"for the economic, environmental and  social topics. Reporting Frameworks Applied This report draws on these voluntary reporting frameworks: GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards: Linde has reported in accordance  with the GRI standards for the period January 1, 2024, to December 31,  2024. For the Content Index - Essentials Service, GRI Services reviewed that  the GRI content index is clearly presented, in a manner consistent with the  Standards, and that the references for disclosures 2-1 to"
"2-5, 3-1 and 3-2  are aligned with the appropriate sections in the body of the report. See the  Content Index at the end of this report for material topics.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 14 Those topics that are considered material are marked within the disclosures  by the following symbol:  1.    The International Sustainability Standards Board’s (ISSB’s) IFRS  framework was used to ensure that disclosures about climate change  are linked to information about financial performance"
"in mainstream  financial reports. See page 110. The Task Force on Climate Related  Financial Disclosures was dissolved in October 2023 and the framework  has been integrated into the ISSB framework. 2.   Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standard for the  Chemicals Sector (Version 2018-10): This provides sector standards  and KPIs that are considered materially relevant to Environmental,  Social and Governance (ESG) investors. See page 113. 3.      Linde has also mapped its"
"reporting against the recommendations of  the Taskforce on Nature-Related Financial Disclosures (TNFD), which  provides details on material nature-related risks and opportunities.  See page 111. Restatements 2-4 None. Changes in Reporting Reporting Pro Forma 2018 and Reporting of Numbers for Linde SD 2028  Targets Data is reported consistent with Linde’s 2023 Sustainable Development  Report and utilizes pro forma information, as previously reported. “Pro forma” definition: Pro forma means a"
"calculated number or result  that is not related to the official financial boundaries, reporting scope or  period. A pro forma number serves as an indicator of what the result of a  newly merged company would theoretically look like if the new company  had reported for the complete year and applied new company reporting  boundaries and methodologies. As an example, actual financial reporting  for 2018 was based on a full year of Linde Inc. (formerly named Praxair,  Inc.) results plus two months"
"of Linde GmbH (previously Linde AG), as the  merger legally took place at the end of 0ctober 2018. The 2018 pro forma  result, in contrast, reflects the estimated 2018 calendar year. Divestments and Business Changes For information, please see the Annual Report, Note 2.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 15 Materiality, Priorities and Targets Linde’s SD targets are our roadmap for near- and long-term planning.  0riginating with our Sustainable Development 2028 (SD 2028) targets,  the"
"commitments are organized in four categories, or Priority Factors  (PFs), that we consider relevant to the company and its internal and  external stakeholders: Climate Change; Safety, Health & Environment;  People & Community; and Integrity & Compliance. The PFs are shown  in the box: Priority Factors. Linde’s targets are aligned with the four PF  categories. Linde’s targets have several features worth noting: 1.         These targets set a long-term strategy for sustainable development at"
"Linde. They are consistent with Linde’s business model, its mission and  values, and the strategic business objectives named by the Board as a  basis for variable compensation. 2.      Linde’s businesses and functions are accountable for meeting these  targets. They are embedded into our businesses and operations. Each  target is a business KPI and managed as part of the business. 3.       The targets were developed with reference to external expectations.  These include ESG investors, who look"
"for non-financial information  as the basis to make better informed investor decisions. They were  also developed with stakeholders interested in understanding Linde’s  impacts within the context of global needs and planetary boundaries  (such as described by the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and  the UN SDGs). Linde’s targets contribute to several SDGs, as shown in  the table on value creation on page 7, and in the Targets table. This  report includes indexes that show how Linde’s SD"
"strategy and targets  align with the GRI Standards and other voluntary frameworks. 4.     As part of its continuous improvement process, Linde conducts a  condensed Sustainable Development Materiality Assessment (SDMA)  each year to confirm alignment and consider adjustments and  improvements. The comprehensive SDMA will be repeated after 5 years  to confirm that the key issues remain relevant. Work has begun for the  next five-year cycle. The full SDMA process is described on our website  at:"
"https://www.linde.com/ sustainability/selecting-priorities Beyond SD 2028 Linde’s ambitious intent extends well beyond 2028. Supplementing the  comprehensive SD 2028 targets are the company’s 2021 climate change  commitments and additional targets announced in 2024 that further our  environmental commitments in waste and water stewardship, climate  change investments, and embedding sustainability throughout the  organization. Consistent with our priorities, Linde’s science-based  “35 by 35” plan"
"and its 2050 climate neutrality ambition extend to a  15-year horizon and beyond.  Priority Factors Priority Matrix Importance to External Shareholders Importance to Linde 4 PRIORITY FACTORS: •        Climate Change •        Safety, Health & Environment •  People & Community •    Integrity & Compliance  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 16 Sustainable Development Targets Climate Change Decarbonization, Investment & Innovation •   >$3 billion in internal decarbonization initiatives by"
"2035 •   GHG Reduction: Achieve 35 percent intensity reduction in GHG vs. EBITDA •       35% reduction of absolute GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) by 2035 •      >2x low-carbon power sourcing, primarily from active renewable electricity •    Enable >2x annual carbon productivity Safety, Health & Environment Occupational and Distribution Safety •       Achieve annual operational safety better than industry levels (LWCR, TRCR) •    Achieve annual Commercial Vehicle Incident Rate (CVIR) of"
"<2.5/million km Environment •         Implement Water Management Plans (WMPs) at 100 percent relevant sites •         Reduce water withdrawal by 20% on intensity basis for all high-water-use sites in high-water-stress areas by 2035 (2024 baseline) •     Achieve Zero Waste at 450 sites •       100% participation in Zero Waste with roll-out of initiatives to reduce waste at source by 2035 People & Community Employee Community Engagement •      Contribute 550 CE projects by 2028 •    100% SD"
"training to targeted employees by 2028 Integrity & Compliance Integrity & Compliance •  Confirm 100 percent annual certification to Linde’s Code of Business Integrity * See Performance Towards Targets for definitions of scope and boundary of each target. All targets run 2018 - 2028 except where otherwise noted.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 17 •       Aligned with the Paris Accords. Targets relate to all of Linde’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.  ¹ Greenhouse gas (GHG)"
"emissions/Adj. EBITDA ² Carbon capture and sequestration Road to Climate Neutrality* Requires strong policy and regulatory support Requires strong policy and regulatory support  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 18 0 Linde is a company in the business of resource transformation in a world that is dealing with climate change. In 2024 a subset of Linde applications  allowed our customers or their end users to avoid more than twice the GHG emissions of all Linde operations. In 2024, total"
"Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions  were 37.4 million MT C0₂e, versus 96 million MT C0₂e avoided by our customers or end users, based upon several applications as shown below. Again in 2024, a subset of Linde applications enabled more than  twice the GHG benefit than was emitted in all global operations— nearly 2.6x more. 15.1 million MT CO2e  avoided from coatings  for thermal barriers  for industrial gas  turbine and jet engine  efficiency 2.2 million MT CO2e  avoided from Kr in  windows and Ar in"
"welding 67.2 million MT CO2e avoided from H2  for ultra-low sulfur  diesel (ULSD) 11.9 million MT CO2e  avoided from O2 for  steelmaking 96 million MT CO2e benefits enabled   by Linde applications for  customers and end users 20.9 million MT CO2e Scope 2 indirect GHG  emissions emitted  mainly from the  power consumed at  air separation plants 16.5 million MT  CO₂e Scope 1 GHG  emissions: 12.1  million MT from  H2 production, 4.3  million from other  GHG emissions,  driving and natural  gas use"
"37.4 million MT CO2e Linde GHG footprint Values are based on 2024 reported and consolidated results from Linde plc subsidiaries following Linde plc reporting standards.  Note that values are rounded, and totals shown may not be equivalent to the addition of rounded components. C0₂e = C0₂ equivalents Linde Applications Enable 2X Carbon Productivity  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 19 The global risks posed by climate change to the environment, society, and  the economy are significant"
"and demand a multifaceted approach. Our  company’s mission of making our world more productive is fundamentally  aligned with the goals of sustainable energy and climate change  mitigation. Linde is committed to leveraging our high-quality solutions,  innovative products, advanced technologies, and comprehensive services  to support our customers in reaching their sustainability objectives and  fostering a healthier planet for generations to come. TODAY Linde is in the business of resource"
"transformation. We use fuels for energy  and as feedstock. 0ur business and production processes are therefore  energy-intensive, making the cost and availability of energy important for  Linde. Linde’s carbon footprint (Scopes 1 and 2) in 2024 was about 37.4  million tons of C02e, where 44 percent stems from direct carbon dioxide  emissions, mostly from our hydrogen plants, and 56 percent from indirect  emissions from our electricity consumption, mostly from air separation. This  energy use, in"
"turn, delivers innovative and sustainable solutions for our  customers. In many cases, these solutions improve the productivity, energy  use and GHG emissions for our customers or end users. In fact, we calculate  that in 2024, Linde gases, principally oxygen and hydrogen, enabled our  customers to avoid 96 million metric tons of C0₂e, which is more than twice  as much GHG avoided than emitted from our operations.  As the electric grid decarbonizes by using more low-carbon and renewable"
"sources, Linde’s indirect GHG emissions will decrease. In addition, Linde  actively contributes to grid decarbonization in multiple ways: •         Linde’s business proposition is that it is more reliable and more  energy-efficient for our customers to outsource the production of  industrial gases than to insource. Linde’s energy efficiency is world- class, and we continue to improve it each year, which leads to financial  savings as well as reductions in energy and GHG emissions. •     Many of"
"Linde’s cryogenic air separation (ASU) plants are designed to  include “buffer” inventories to retain reliable supply in case of power  failure. This has allowed Linde to participate in demand response  programs. In periods of peak energy demand, Linde can interrupt its  grid power use and effectively reduce grid electric load. Linde’s design  investment can provide ancillary service for grid operators to maintain  reliable electric power service as wind and solar energy become a  greater part"
"of our resource mix. •       Forty-seven percent of all Linde electricity (19.9 TWh) is currently  sourced from low-carbon and renewable power. 0f that, 7 TWh is  directly or actively sourced. Linde recognizes the transformative potential of hydrogen as a key enabler  of the clean energy transition. The significant benefit of zero emissions at  the point of use, combined with its high energy density for storage and  transport in both liquid and gaseous states, and its applicability in combustion"
"and fuel cells for heat and electricity, solidify its future  importance. As a leader in industrial gases and related technologies,  Linde is committed to leveraging our expertise and resources to unlock  the full potential of hydrogen in building a more sustainable world. We  acknowledge that the shift towards sustainable practices is a journey that  has just begun. Currently, traditional methods hold a significant position  in key industrial processes, from refining and chemical production to"
"the  manufacturing of steel and electronics. While research, development, and  emerging technologies are starting to reshape traditional approaches,  the widespread integration of sustainable solutions is still evolving.  For instance, hydrogen fuel cell vehicles are not yet commonplace,  green fuels and materials are primarily in pilot programs, and the use of  hydrogen for energy storage is an area of active development. Hydrogen  is primarily produced by steam methane reforming (SMR) using"
"natural  gas or recovered as a byproduct from other industrial processes. Linde  also produces hydrogen using the auto thermal reforming (ATR) process,  and water electrolysis is emerging as an effective low-carbon source of  hydrogen production. Carbon capture and sequestration (CCS) technology  is a practical solution for low-carbon hydrogen production available at  scale today. Currently, SMRs remain the dominant technology to produce  hydrogen on a large scale.  Linde’s Pathway to Climate"
"Neutrality:  The next three decades will represent a period of great activity for the  world and the quest to address climate change. 0ur strategy includes three  milestones, 2028, 2035 and 2050 and is based on a vision of the global  energy transition during this period.   The global pace of decarbonization has been slower than originally  anticipated.  Regulatory uncertainty, shifting governmental priorities and a  challenging macroeconomic environment create uncertainty for the large"
"investment required for decarbonization progress.  Linde’s own carbon  trajectory and our ability to achieve our targets and 2050 climate neutrality  ambition are tied to the pace of global decarbonization. 2028:  Our assumptions for this time horizon were that industrial decarbonization  would continue to accelerate with the growth of hydrogen as an agent of  decarbonization in multiple applications, the piloting and scaling of new  technologies, including electrolysis for green hydrogen, and,"
"while steam  methane reformers (SMRs) would continue to be used for most large-scale  production of hydrogen, they would become more efficient and incorporate  carbon capture and/or renewable feedstocks.   Not all barriers to decarbonization can be overcome in the near term, and  while the pace of these changes may be slower than originally anticipated,  Linde remains committed to reducing our carbon emissions.  Linde has  implemented several measures to help manage our carbon footprint,"
"achieve our long-term goals, and assess the long-term risks of climate  change.   Climate Change – Challenge & Opportunity  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 20 Linde is investing across the hydrogen value chain to advance the clean  energy transition.  Linde’s Clean Energy organization was developed to  help drive strategy.  The company is actively investing in decarbonization  initiatives of which the primary aim is to reduce the GHG emissions of Linde  and/or its customers and"
"includes investments in energy-efficient SMRs  and ATRs with carbon capture, electrolysis with renewable power, and  the piloting of new low-carbon technologies. Linde directs more than a  third (47 percent in 2024) of its R&D budget to decarbonization initiatives  that include key projects such as advanced thermal barrier coatings and  advanced sealing technologies; improving global plant efficiency, energy  optimization, logistics and operations optimization; and flexible operations  to"
"support demand- side management and allow for higher utilization of  renewably produced electrical power. It also includes the development  of alternative gas separation technologies to allow alternative process  concepts with higher efficiency and a lower carbon footprint. In the steel  industry, projects include the decarbonization of the integrated mill, heat  recovery, direct reduced iron technologies and electrochemistry initiatives. Linde’s largest immediate and medium-term opportunity to"
"affect its  GHG footprint is in its electricity usage, impacting Scope 2 emissions. We  continue to leverage our scale and geographic distribution to procure  reliable and affordable sources of renewable electricity through active  procurement of new direct renewable energy supply, power purchase  agreements (PPAs) or renewable energy credits (RECs).   Linde has also integrated carbon footprint and climate change  considerations into its capital investment process.  The GHG emissions  for"
"proposed investments are integrated into considerations in Capital  Investment Committee decisions, including the selection of the technology  solution and project risks across the project development cycle. To help  mitigate potential physical risks from climate change, Linde has developed  a tool to explore future climate change scenarios that could impose  additional operational costs on production processes from factors such  as higher ambient temperature or air quality deterioration/higher"
"carbon  dioxide parts per million (PPMs) in the atmosphere at our locations.  Physical risks are considered in planning. Impacts and mitigations are  considered as part of ongoing business reviews. Linde’s targets for 2028 include: •       35 percent improvement in GHG intensity versus adjusted EBITDA-from  5.3 in 2018 to 3.5 by 2028. Linde’s 2024 GHG intensity of 2.9 reflects a  45 percent improvement versus 2018, already below the 2028 target. •     More than two times low-carbon power"
"procured versus 2018. •    Enable more than two times GHG benefits for customers annually,  which we have achieved for the past several years. •   Development and investment in decarbonization projects including  low-carbon (blue) and/or renewable (green) hydrogen projects. 2035:  In 2028, the target horizon for our 10-year managed climate objectives  ends. Recognizing the importance of climate change, in 2021, Linde  developed a mid-term vision for 2035 and set our 2035 Science Based  Targets"
"initiative (SBTi) validated “35 by 35” target. As this climate  commitment demonstrates, we are active in advancing the world towards  ambitious GHG reduction in the chemical industry using scenario analysis  (utilizing the Sustainable Development Scenario [SDS]). Our assumptions for this time horizon include wide adoption of hydrogen  fuel cells, readily available green electricity, and energy and fuel markets  that are increasingly linked, potentially leading to a more sustainable  energy"
"system. In addition, technological advancements and regulatory  support would make low-carbon hydrogen more cost-competitive and  enable the availability of electrolysis for green hydrogen at greater  capacities for the support of new hydrogen demand. By 2035, we see the  possibility of hydrogen derivatives playing a crucial role as a new energy  vector, facilitating the global transport of low-cost renewable power.  Progress towards this objective requires changes in economic and societal"
"behaviors, government regulation, industry engagement and technological  development. Linde remains committed to participating in investments  and exploring the technologies that contribute to reducing global GHG  emissions. * Scope 1 and 2 emissions (in million MT) divided by adjusted EBITDA in billion USD. Calculation for 2018 uses adjusted pro forma EBITDA. Calculation for 2019 onward uses adjusted EBITDA.     Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure. For definition and reconciliation, please"
"see the Appendix to the Investor Teleconference Presentation Fourth Quarter 2024. Goal of 35 percent improvement in Linde GHG intensity 2018–2028* 2018       2019    2020    2021    2022    2023    2024    2025    2026    2027    2028 6 5.3 2.9 3.5 GHG Intensity Achieved Target GHG Intensity 5 4 3 -45% -35%  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 21 Linde’s targets for 2035 include: •        A 35 percent reduction in absolute GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) from our 2021 inventory. •"
"Continued investment in decarbonization projects, including low-carbon (blue) and/ or renewable (green) hydrogen projects,  and potential carbon capture projects at Linde’s existing hydrogen  production facilities. 2050: The world is at the beginning of an energy transformation, and Linde’s  climate neutrality ambition demonstrates our long-term commitment as an  active contributor to the transformation. 0ur vision for 2050 includes widespread availability of renewable and low- carbon energy and"
"alternative technologies for production and distribution.  Linde’s 2050 climate neutrality ambition is based upon IEA’s scenario  analysis, as described in its 2020 ETP paper. This well-below 2 degrees SDS  recognized that the chemical sector as a whole is one that is hard to abate  and projects the GHG trajectory for this industry as declining after 2030,  reaching net zero after 2070. Tackling climate change is a shared and global responsibility. The long-  term effects of carbon-based fuels"
"on the environment and climate require  significant changes to the energy supply chain, regulations and society.  Linde is poised to contribute across all aspects of managing climate change  and reducing GHG emissions.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 22 In 2024, the hydrogen industry underwent a period of maturation, leading  to increasing rigor being applied to financial investment decisions (FID) and  scaled back estimates of the market growth. Despite regulatory uncertainty  and"
"challenging macroeconomic conditions, Linde remained steadfast in  pursuing opportunities in the clean energy sector that meet our investment  criteria. We firmly believe that clean hydrogen and carbon capture will  play pivotal roles in combating climate change, especially in hard-to-abate  industries. Linde is evaluating options to decarbonize our existing hydrogen  production facilities and secure long-term offtake agreements. With  guaranteed demand underpinning our investments, Linde can"
"increase the  supply of low-carbon hydrogen in our network, especially in the U.S. Gulf  Coast, while reducing Scope 1 emissions, in-line with our sustainability  goals. We are enabling our customers to decarbonize their processes through: •   Fuel Switching: Replacing fossil fuels with clean hydrogen in their  refineries, crackers or furnaces.   •      On-Site Carbon Capture: Implementing carbon capture solutions  directly at the customers’ site, for example, in the cement industry.   Linde is"
"also exploring greenfield opportunities in rapidly growing markets,  such as clean ammonia. As the world’s leading industrial gases and engineering company, Linde  produces hydrogen from a range of feedstocks and natural resources. In  clean hydrogen, we focus on reducing the carbon intensity of hydrogen  to meet diverse market needs. In the process of producing low-carbon  hydrogen from natural gas, around 10 grams of carbon dioxide per gram  of hydrogen is generated in a conventional SMR."
"Carbon dioxide emissions  can be captured at different points along the process chain to create low- carbon-intensity hydrogen. The company is innovating new carbon capture  solutions, such as the high-efficiency Linde HISORP® carbon capture  system, which can achieve capture rates up to 99.7 percent. The captured  carbon dioxide is then conditioned and compressed for sequestration, or  permanent storage underground, making low-  carbon hydrogen a viable decarbonization option, especially in"
"hard-to-  abate industries. Approximately 90 percent of the projects that we are  developing in the U.S. involve carbon capture and sequestration (CCS),  supported by the 45Q tax incentive within the Inflation Reduction Act. Linde is poised to invest $8 to $10 billion in clean energy investments over  the next two to three years, with a current decarbonization project backlog  in excess of $4 billion. These projects include: •         Beaumont, TX: A world-scale hydrogen plant with CCS and an"
"air  separation plant (ASU) to supply clean hydrogen and other industrial  gases to Woodside’s plant, the first greenfield low-carbon ammonia  facility in the U.S., with a capacity of 1.1 million tonnes of ammonia  per year.  •  Fort Saskatchewan, Alberta: A large ATR and ASU with Linde’s  advanced adsorption-based CCS technology, HISORP  capturing  and sequestering more than 2 million metric tons of carbon dioxide  annually for Dow’s net-zero ethylene cracker. When completed,  Linde’s complex"
"will be the largest clean hydrogen production facility  in Canada.  •     Lengfurt, Germany: The construction of a large-scale carbon capture  and liquefaction facility with Heidelberg Materials, one of the world’s  largest building materials companies, as feedstock for the chemicals  and food and beverage end markets.  Linde’s current pipeline of opportunities is strong, approaching 200  prospects, with some key opportunities that include:  •   Rüdersdorf, Germany: Together with Cemex, Linde"
"was awarded €157  million in funding from the EU Innovation Fund to capture 1.3 million  metric tons of carbon dioxide per year from Cemex’s cement plant,  using HISORP.  •    Saudi Aramco CCS Hub: Linde is involved in one of the largest  carbon capture and storage hubs globally, collaborating with Saudi  Aramco and SLB. Based in the Jubail Industrial City of Saudi Arabia,  the first phase of construction is expected to be completed in 2027,  with a capacity of 9–11 million metric tons of carbon"
"dioxide per  year. The companies reached a key milestone in 2024, signing a joint  shareholder agreement that defined each one’s equity interest. Walking the Talk: Linde’s Clean Energy Progress  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 23 While Linde believes that low-carbon hydrogen is a practical solution   available at scale, the company is also active in smaller developments  in electrolysis to advance along the learning curve for installations and  operations. Linde is building or"
"developing over 400 MW of electrolyzer  capacity for ourselves and for others. This proactive approach ensures  that as the technology matures, Linde will be ready to offer even more  competitive solutions to the market.   •       Yara Norway Plant: Linde started up a 24 MW proton exchange  membrane (PEM) electrolyzer-based renewable hydrogen facility for  Yara International at its industrial facility in Norway. •      Niagara Falls, NY: A 35 MW PEM electrolyzer started up at Linde’s  facility"
"in Niagara Falls, NY, U.S. as the largest operational renewable  hydrogen production in the U.S. •  Sale of Plant: Linde won contracts to build other projects, including  100 MW for Shell’s REFHYNE II project and 200 MW for RWE.  Linde prides itself on being a technology company, and our innovative  solutions in clean energy and decarbonization are enabling the energy  transition for our customers. Today, Linde has the largest liquid hydrogen  production capacity and distribution system in the"
"world. The company  also operates the world’s first commercial high-purity hydrogen storage  cavern in the U.S. Gulf Coast. Coupled with an unrivaled pipeline network  of approximately 1,000 kilometers, this cavern enables Linde to reliably  supply its customers. We operate more than 230 hydrogen refueling  stations worldwide and are developing fit-for-purpose solutions for heavy-  duty transportation. As we continue to expand our global footprint and  collaborate with industry leaders, Linde is"
"driving meaningful progress  towards a sustainable future. Our strategic approach ensures that we  remain at the forefront of the industry, ready to meet the challenges and  opportunities ahead.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 24 Linde reports performance against all targets to our stakeholders. Linde’s  Sustainable Development (SD 2028) targets, “35 by 35,” and more recent  2035 targets set a long-term, 10-year action plan with commitments  from leadership and all levels of the"
"organization. These are managed  targets with clear accountability, ongoing reporting to management,  and an annual process of review and continuous improvement. These  target areas are consistent with Linde’s strategic non-financial business  objectives considered in determining executive variable compensation  awards. Performance against targets is reported quarterly to executive  leadership, several times per year to the Board’s Sustainability  Committee, and at least once a year to the full"
"Board of Directors. 0perational performance towards targets is reported on a monthly basis  to management. Most SD targets run from the 2018 base year, for 10 years to 2028. In  2021, Linde announced its climate change target, “35 by 35,” which is a  commitment to reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 35 percent  in 2035. This managed target runs from the 2021 base year and has been  validated by the SBTi. Four new targets commenced in 2024. As part of the annual assessment of our targets,"
"Linde has discontinued  reporting against several targets that have either already been achieved  and are well integrated into operations or are covered by the scope of  other existing targets. This section provides a summary dashboard of all targets and  performance against these targets for 2024. Performance Towards Targets  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 25 Climate Change Linde Targets* 2021 2022 2023 2024 Target Status Invest in internal decarbonization by 2035,  cumulative $"
"million n/a n/a n/a 169 3,000 Enable >2x GHG benefits, annual 2.2x 2.3x 2.4x 2.6x >2.0x 35% absolute reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions  by 2035, 2021 baseline, cumulative % (million tons C02e) n/a -2.8% -4% -6.2% -35% (25.9) 35% improvement in GHG intensity vs. adjusted  EBITDA, cumulative %, (intensity MMT C02e/$ billion) -26.2% (3.9) -33% (3.6) -40% (3.2) -45% (2.9) -35% (3.5) >2x low-carbon power sourcing, primarily from  active renewable electricity, cumulative TWh 17.0 18.0 18.0 19.9"
">28.0 *All Targets terminate in 2028, unless specified otherwise                    achieved                on track                behind target Invest and Innovate in Decarbonization Linde has the following targets focused on decarbonization and growth: •   Invest >$3 billion in internal decarbonization initiatives The scope is capital projects of more than $2 million, where the focus of  Linde is to decarbonize its facilities to reduce GHG emissions and advance  the use of low-carbon fuels"
"and energy. Reporting against this target  commenced in 2024 with a total spend of $169 million reported. •       Enable >2x more GHG to be avoided per year than are emitted in all  Linde operations The scope is GHG benefits based upon data from a subset of Linde  applications that enable demonstrable GHG benefits, versus Linde’s  2024 total direct and indirect (Scopes 1 and 2) GHG emissions. In 2024,  these applications enabled 96 million MT C0₂e to be avoided—almost 60  million MT more than"
"its GHG emissions, or 2.6 times more. See the “Linde  Applications Enable 2X Carbon Productivity” section. Methodology: End-user-avoided carbon dioxide emissions are calculated in  accordance with the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA)  guidelines. Avoided emissions arise from efforts by multiple partners along  the respective value chains. Linde’s contribution has been characterized  as fundamental in enabling the avoided emissions. See “Addressing the  Avoided Emissions"
"Challenge: Guidelines from the chemical industry for  accounting for and reporting greenhouse gas studies,” ICCA 0ctober, 2003  (updated 2017).  Optimize Operational Energy Use and GHG Emissions Linde has the following targets focused on energy and GHG emissions  reduction: •    Achieve a 35 percent absolute reduction of Scope 1 and 2 emissions  by 2035 The scope is Linde’s combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. This  science-based target is aligned with the Paris Accords goal to limit"
"global  warming to well below 2°C. Linde’s 2021 (baseline) Scope 1 and Scope 2  emissions were 39.9 MM MT C02e. In 2024, Linde reported Scope 1 and 2  emissions of 37.4 MM MT C02e, representing a 6.2 percent reduction from  the 2021 baseline, driven primarily by increased active renewable energy  procurement. Progress against this target is not expected to be linear due  to timing of volumes and projects. See GRI 305 for more information. •    Achieve 35 percent GHG intensity improvement versus"
"adjusted EBITDA The scope is Linde’s combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions versus  adjusted EBITDA. In order to show GHG efficiency against a business  denominator, Linde selected adjusted EBITDA, which is a non-GAAP  measure reported by Linde (refer to the “Non-GAAP Financial Measures”  section of the 10-K for the definition and a reconciliation to reported  GAAP amounts). It reflects our commitment to managing business  growth while optimizing operational GHG emissions.  Achieving this"
"target depends on a range of external variables outside of our control,  including global economic trends, government regulations and currency  fluctuations. Linde’s 2024 adjusted EBITDA was $12.8 billion, resulting in  a GHG intensity of 2.9 MMT C02e/$ billion, representing a 45 percent GHG  intensity improvement over 2018, which was primarily driven by increased  renewable energy procurement and strong adjusted EBITDA growth. •        >2x low-carbon power sourcing, primarily from active"
"renewable  electricity The scope is all Linde operations within our GHG reporting boundary. The  target is on track. In 2024, the company sourced 19.9 TWh low-carbon  energy, or 47 percent of all its purchased electricity. Progress on this  target was not expected to be linear. Low-carbon electricity is defined as  electricity produced from non-fossil sources including renewables (e.g.,  solar, wind, biomass, geothermal, hydro) and other low-carbon sources.  The target includes passive"
"electricity (e.g., from the grid) and active  sourcing over PPAs, RECs, certificates and sourcing contracts for specific  facilities. It considers all energy consumption where Linde purchases  electricity. It excludes electricity where Linde is not the purchaser. See GRI  302-1 for more information.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 26 Safety, Health & Environment Linde Targets* 2021 2022 2023 2024 Target Status Water Management Plans (WMPs) at high-water-use  sites in areas of high-"
"water stress (# sites in scope,  % WMPs implemented) 67 (36%) 64 (48%) 64 (61%) 89 (25%) 100% 20% intensity reduction in water withdrawal at  high-water-use sites in areas of high-water-stress by 2035 (%) n/a n/a n/a new -20% new Achieve Zero Waste to Landfill at 450 sites 360 371 421 451 450 100% participation in Zero Waste globally by 2035 n/a n/a n/a 48% 100% new Annually achieve operational safety better than  industry levels for Lost Workday Case Rate (LWCR) 0.22 0.19 0.09 0.09 1.0 Annually"
"achieve operational safety better than  industry levels for Total Recordable Case Rate (TRCR) 0.54 0.49 0.37 0.36 2.7 Annually achieve Commercial Vehicle Incident Rate  (CVIR) of <2.5 per million kilometers driven 2.08 2.24 2.21 2.22 <2.50 *All Targets terminate in 2028, unless specified otherwise                        achieved                on track                behind target Environment In addition to its investment targets aimed at addressing climate change,  Linde has defined"
"environmental targets for the management of water and  the reduction of waste.     •     Implement Water Management Plans (WMPs) at high-water-use sites in  areas of water stress •     Achieve 20 percent water intensity improvement at high-water-use sites  in areas of water stress, by 2035 The scope for both of the above targets is high-water-use (hi-hi) sites,  defined as sites exceeding 50,000 m3/year of water withdrawal, excluding  once-through, non-contact cooling water located in areas of"
"water stress.  Areas of water stress are defined by the WRI Aqueduct Global Water  Risk Atlas Tool (2023 version). We determined “high stress” to mean that  the baseline water stress was “high” or “extremely high.” In addition,  businesses are encouraged to voluntarily use local determinants of  water risk; sites thus defined are included in this target scope and must  implement WMP. The WMP will assess water usage and foster collaboration  with internal stakeholders to support water reduction"
"efforts where  applicable. This scope is assessed annually. In 2024, approximately 89 sites were defined as in scope for these targets,  a net increase of approximately 25 sites from the prior year, which  reflected the update from the 2019 to 2023 version of the Aqueduct  tool. Of Linde’s hi-hi sites, approximately 22 are in EMEA, 29 are in the  Americas, and 38 are in APAC. To enhance data quality and water intensity  monitoring, hi-hi sites report water usage data monthly. Water intensity is"
"calculated as water withdrawal per unit of production.  Linde’s water intensity target established in 2024 aims at reducing water  intensity at hi-hi sites by 20 percent by 2035. Due to the increased scope of  plants resulting from the update to the 2023 version of the Aqueduct tool,  this target has been re-baselined to 2024 with a reported intensity of 1.1.  Linde is in the process of identifying and evaluating projects to achieve this  target. •   >450 sites achieve Zero Waste to Landfill •"
"100% Zero Waste participation globally by 2035 The scope is all Linde operations subject to annual eKPI reporting. A  Zero Waste to Landfill site is defined as one that diverts more than 90  percent process waste or hazardous waste from landfills; this can include  incineration for energy recovery, recycling and composting. At the end  of 2024, Linde reported 451 facilities achieving Zero Waste to Landfill,  effectively meeting its 2028 target, which is now deemed achieved.  In 2024, 48 percent"
"of sites participated. Zero Waste to Landfill helps  extend our company’s mission and values and promotes circular economic  practices. See GRI 306-2 for more information. Safety & Health During 2024, Linde continued its “journey to zero,” aligning its safety and  environmental standards and procedures for both work processes and  product handling to enable employees around the world to perform their  jobs safely and to prevent safety incidents relating to operational processes  or products."
"Overall, operational safety incident rates decreased in 2024  due to several cultural and operational factors, including best practices  sharing, a focus on manual handling processes, and training. •    Annually achieve operational safety better than industry levels for Lost  Workday Case Rate (LWCR) and Total Recordable Case Rate (TRCR). The  scope of these targets is all Linde operations (e.g., for employees and  contractors). LWCR: Linde’s 2024 LWCR was 0.09 (2023: 0.09), more than eleven"
"times  better than the 0SHA all industries industrial average (1.0). Linde’s LWCR is  defined as the number of Recordable Injury Cases (RICs) plus the number  of Recordable Sickness Cases (RSCs) that result in one or more day(s) away  from work as a result of a work-related incident or exposure per 200,000  hours worked (for employees and contractors). TRCR: Linde’s 2024 TRCR (the number of employee or contractor recordable  injuries per 200,000 hours worked) was 0.36 (2023: 0.37). Linde’s 2024"
"TRCR was more than seven times better than the 0SHA all industries  industrial average (2.7). A recordable case is defined as any recordable   Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 27 injury or sickness of an employee, temporary worker or contractor that  results from a work-related incident or exposure per 200,000 hours  worked. •    Annually achieve Commercial Vehicle Incident Rate (CVIR) of 2.5/million  kilometers The scope is all operations and all employee and contractor commercial"
"vehicle incidents at all severity levels, per million kilometers. The annual  vehicle safety target is to maintain Linde’s CVIR at less than 2.5/million  kilometers. In 2024, this target was achieved: Linde’s global CVIR was 2.22  vehicle incidents per million kilometers (2023: 2.21). Each high-severity vehicle incident is investigated, and the results from  the investigation are reviewed by local leadership and Corporate SHEQ,  including root cause analysis and corrective actions. In addition,"
"selected  high-severity incidents based on results and learnings are reviewed  monthly with corporate and regional leadership. The target scope excludes  service vehicles. Annually, all high-severity vehicle incidents, which are defined by Linde  standards and closely aligned with ICCA guidance, are reviewed. As part of  this review, an analysis is conducted to identify improvement opportunity  areas in which the learnings and conclusions, as identified from the  analysis, are used to improve"
"safety standards and/or establish new  initiatives and focus areas. As an example, the learning and conclusions identified from the 2024  analysis inform training programs and safety campaigns. Integrity & Compliance •    Integrity & Compliance: 100 percent certification to Linde’s CBI All targeted employees are required to certify CBI compliance, except  where law or regulation prohibits inclusion. The reporting certification  is achieved annually for Linde’s CBI and biennially for additional"
"related  areas, such as Doing Business with the Government, Understanding Anti-  Bribery Legislation, Understanding the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and others. As indicated in the Governance section, the Board Audit Committee  reviews certification of employees’ understanding of, and compliance with,  the company’s CBI and compliance policies.  In addition, Linde requires that 100 percent of relevant third parties adhere  to its CBI and compliance policies, or their own equivalent compliance"
"policies. Linde utilizes contractual terms and awareness programs to foster  adherence, as through its Supplier Code of Conduct. Integrity & Compliance Linde Targets* 2021 2022 2023 2024 Target Status 100% employee certification to Linde Code of  Business Integrity (CBI), annual % employees  certifying 99 100 100 100 100 *All Targets terminate in 2028, unless specified otherwise                  achieved                on track                behind target  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development"
"Report 28 People & Community Linde Targets* 2021 2022 2023 2024 Target Status 550 employee community engagement projects  completed 389 489 590 821 550 100% Sustainable Development Awareness training  (% targeted employees trained) n/a n/a n/a Started 100% *All Targets terminate in 2028, unless specified otherwise                   achieved                on track                behind target Community Engagement •    Complete 550 projects in community engagement The target scope is all reported"
"employee-based Linde community  engagement activities. Linde reported 821 projects in 2024 (2023:  590). Projects are defined as reported by the project team into a Linde  database. Linde measures the impact of projects, where applicable, on the  community beneficiaries, employees and the company. Analysis shows  positive impacts for all three groups. See GRI 413-1 for more information. Sustainability Awareness •         100% Sustainability training for employees Linde will begin rolling out"
"sustainability training to all targeted  employees, to be implemented across all businesses.  Efforts toward this  goal are underway with development of training anticipated in 2025.   Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 29 Corporate Governance 2-9 A comprehensive review of Linde’s corporate governance framework is  provided on our website at: https://www.linde.com/about-us/corporate  governance. It is also included in the Proxy Statement for the 2025 Annual  General Meeting of"
"Shareholders in the Corporate Governance and Board  Matters section. Linde’s Board of Directors consists of 10 Board members. Eight are  independent non-executive directors. Linde’s CE0, Sanjiv Lamba, serves as  an executive director, and the Chairman of the Board, Stephen Angel, was  formerly Linde’s CE0. The Board currently has five standing committees:  Audit Committee, Human Capital Committee, Executive Committee,  Sustainability Committee, and Nomination and Governance Committee.  Each is"
"comprised of only independent directors, except for the Executive  Committee, of which the Chair and CE0 are members. The Board maintains oversight of the company’s values and strategy.  Each year, it conducts a comprehensive long-term strategic review of the  company’s outlook and business plans and provides advice and counsel to  management regarding the company’s strategic issues. Linde’s values are considered integral to its long-term sustainable success,  and executive compensation rewards"
"performance in financial and  strategic non-financial areas. The Board’s role in these areas, as well as in  risk management, is described in the company’s annual Proxy Statement  in the Corporate Governance and Board Matters section, which is available  on Linde’s website at: https://www.linde.com/investors/regulated- information. The Board has oversight of key aspects of the corporate governance  structure in areas of particular interest to the sustainability community,  such as director"
"independence; split roles of Chairman and CE0;  appropriate board committees; board effectiveness; shareholder outreach  and alignment with long-term shareholder interests; mechanisms to  avoid conflicts of interest; board composition; limits to service; industry  experience; and a comprehensive sustainability program. Board members are nominated by the Nomination and Governance  Committee for election by the shareholders. Nominees are elected each  year at the Annual General Meeting. The"
"Nomination and Governance  Committee believes that each director has an established record of  accomplishment in areas relevant to our business and objectives, and  possesses the characteristics identified in our Corporate Governance  Guidelines as essential to a well-functioning and deliberative governing  body, including integrity, independence and commitment. Each Board member has executive management and director oversight  experience in most, if not all, areas that the Board considers"
"critical  to conduct the company’s business, including public policies as they  affect global industrial corporations, compliance, corporate governance,  productivity management, safety management and sustainable  development. Governance of Non-Financial Matters 2-12 Linde has established five core values: Safety, Inclusion, Accountability,  Integrity and Community. These are the basis of what the company stands  for and how it behaves. A code of ethics has been adopted that provides  clear"
"instructions on expected behavior and for reporting concerns about  potential non-conformance. This code, the Code of Business Integrity  (CBI), has been approved by the Linde Board of Directors. This document  is made widely available to employees and third parties and is posted  on the company’s website. Governance of Linde’s CBI is described in the  Performance section as it relates to targets. Linde’s Board monitors the implementation of its CBI, which includes  commitments to adhere to high"
"standards for inclusion; safety; health; care  for the environment and quality; human rights; corporate citizenship; and  the prevention of bribery and corruption. The Audit Committee oversees the company’s compliance with legal  and regulatory requirements. The Human Capital Committee oversees  safety and inclusion policies, objectives and programs to achieve those  objectives. The Nomination and Governance Committee periodically  reviews the company’s guidelines and policies governing its"
"response  to important broad public policy issues in the areas of corporate social  responsibility and corporate citizenship. Alignment with Compensation It is the view of Linde’s Board that non-financial issues are a component  of the company’s values, culture and performance expectations, and are a  basis on which employees drive financial results. The Board has confirmed  the importance of setting non- financial objectives as part of variable  compensation to reinforce leadership’s focus on"
"maintaining a culture that  supports both short- and long-term sustainable results. It has established  non-financial goals with respect to elements such as safety, environmental  responsibility, global compliance, productivity and talent management.  These measures are described in Linde’s Proxy Statement. Annual payout  of executive variable compensation depends on performance in several  strategic non-financial areas, including best-in-class performance in safety,  environmental"
"responsibility, global compliance, productivity and talent  management. Sustainable Development Governance Sustainable development is overseen by the Board and executive  leadership and integrated throughout the company. Linde’s Board of Directors  The Sustainability Committee focuses on environmental matters and clean  energy initiatives. The committee receives regular updates on progress  against targets, reporting of aspects and emerging topics from the Vice  Presidents of Sustainability and"
"Clean Energy. The Human Capital Committee has oversight of social aspects, including  community engagement. Additional detail on Board Committee charters  2-9 Governance  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 30 and their oversight of ESG matters can be found at: https://www.linde. com/about-us/corporate-governance. In addition, the Board reviews safety  matters at each meeting. A compliance presentation is made annually by  the Chief Compliance Officer (CCO). A presentation is made annually"
"by the  Executive Vice President (EVP) and Chief Human Resources 0fficer (CHRO)  on Linde’s Talent, Inclusion and Engagement programs.  The Executive Leadership Team is the highest level leadership team. They  are responsible for economic, environmental and social topics, and oversee  and approve sustainable development strategies and programs.  Members of the Executive Leadership Team largely report directly to the  CE0 and are responsible for their respective regional operating segments  of"
"the Americas, APAC and EMEA. As well, Executive Leadership Team  members are responsible for Engineering, Clean Energy, Procurement,  Artificial Intelligence and corporate functions, including Legal, Accounting,  Sustainability and Human Resources (HR). Linde’s Business Leadership team is responsible for business operations  across the globe. Linde’s Functional Leadership manages and has direct  responsibility for areas including Safety, Health, Environment and Quality  (SHEQ), Technology, Clean"
"Energy, Sustainability, Productivity and  Digitalization. Linde’s Senior Vice President (SVP) and Chief Accounting Officer is the  executive officer responsible for sustainability. She is a member of the  Executive Leadership Team and reports to the CFO. Specifically, in relation  to sustainability and climate change, the SVP is the highest management  level responsible for coordinating the sustainable development targets,  including Linde’s climate change targets. The SVP is responsible for"
"aligning various functions of the organization  and the businesses around sustainability goals, including development  of targets and for overall alignment of business strategy and functional  coordination related to sustainability. The Vice President, Sustainability, is the highest-ranking functional  leader of sustainability. She is the Chair of the Corporate SD Council and  coordinates performance and action planning to define and achieve all  sustainability targets and action plans. She is"
"also responsible for external  reporting and coordinating consultations with internal and external  stakeholders relating to ESG issues (see the Engaging Stakeholders section)  and staying current with emerging issues. In addition, she is responsible for  standardizing methodologies (with various global functions such as SHEQ,  R&D, HR and Legal), and reporting performance against  targets.   She also leads global internal and external engagement on sustainable  development issues, community"
"engagement, Zero Waste and other  sustainability initiatives, and ensures the fair, reasonable treatment of all  perspectives. The Corporate Sustainable Development Council (SD Council) is the  corporate committee responsible for the proposal and execution of Linde’s  sustainable development strategy, targets and programs. It consists of the  heads of functions that support the implementation of Linde’s SD strategy  and targets, and the designated heads of 0perating Segments, Engineering  and"
"global businesses who lead SD implementation in their areas. The SD  Council is the institutional link between the Executive Leadership Team and  the Board on Linde’s sustainable development. Each Linde 0perating Segment has appointed a Sustainable Development  leader, supported by a network of SD Coordinators within the businesses.   They lead business- and functional-level internal and external engagement  on sustainable development and coordinate the implementation of  local sustainable"
"development action plans and Linde’s Sustainable  Development Management System (SDMS). Business SD Coordinators  participate in bi-monthly global meetings coordinated by the Sustainable  Development department. They share sustainable development best  practices and challenges between corporate groups and the businesses. Linde’s targets are managed targets; the businesses are accountable  for achieving them. Reporting on specific targets is consolidated and  coordinated by one or more corporate"
"functional vice presidents and is  reviewed internally (in most cases, monthly).  Progress against Linde’s  energy and climate change targets are reported each month to the  Executive Leadership Team and reviewed semi-annually with the CEO.    Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 31 Responsibility The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness  of the internal quality control and risk management systems for  enterprise risks. Unless otherwise reviewed by the Board or"
"other  committees of the Board, the Audit Committee reviews and discusses  guidelines and policies by which the company undertakes risk  assessment and risk management. The Board conducts annual risk assessments based on the  substantial risks and aggregated trends identified in Linde’s risk  management and risk reporting process that encompasses the entire  organization with dedicated responsibilities at various levels. The Executive Leadership Team, supported by the expertise of  the"
"respective corporate functions, is responsible for setting risk  management standards and overseeing compliance with these  standards and associated policies. Guided by these standards  and policies, the heads of the business units are responsible for  identifying operational risks and implementing controls and risk  mitigation measures in their respective business areas. Linde’s risk management and reporting process is governed and  coordinated by the Head of Internal Audit and Risk Management."
"In  his function as Head of Risk Management, he reports to the CF0, who  in turn reports to the CE0. Internal Audit is responsible for providing independent assurance  and consulting services to ensure policies are followed and  processes are executed in accordance with legal requirements and  the standards set by management. Regarding risk management,  Internal Audit performs audits in areas with relevant risks and  compliance requirements to validate how effective risk management  processes"
"are implemented in the organization. Process At Linde, risk management is an integral part of the company’s culture.  The risk management process is designed to identify, assess and treat  all types of risks effectively. There are two interlinked processes: the  top-down process and the bottom-up process. The top-down process is an annual comprehensive, strategic risk  review, and the bottom-up process is a continuous effort led by the  businesses and Corporate Functions. The top-down process is"
"an annual formal risk review conducted by  the Executive Leadership Team. Input for this review comes from  significant risks resulting from the consolidation of feedback from the  bottom-up process and the analysis of external trends. The result of  this process is an updated overview of Linde’s top enterprise risks,  their risk owners, and the measures taken to treat these risks. This  result serves as input for the board review and as the basis for the  bottom-up process. The bottom-up"
"process is led by the businesses and Corporate  Functions throughout the year. They must ensure that their risks,  ratings and risk treatment plans are up-to-date, and significant  new or emerging risks are recorded in the central risk management  database. All risks must be rated according to their potential impact  and expected probability of occurrence based on corporate rating  bands so that they can be prioritized in a heatmap. They receive  regular trainings in Linde’s enterprise risk"
"management approach and  tools from the Central Risk & Control team.  On a quarterly basis, the  risks of each business unit are consolidated, and the Risk & Control  Team conducts risk reviews with the business heads and the senior  finance managers of the business units to discuss the most significant  changes in their risk portfolios and risk landscape. The annual cycle  of both processes facilitated by the Risk & Control Team ensures that  enterprise risks are understood and managed within"
"aligned risk  parameters. The Risk & Control Team facilitates seamless coordination between  both processes. Linde’s risk management process includes risk reviews by management as well as annual review by the Board. In its Annual Report (10-k), Linde lists risk  factors that management assesses may significantly impact the company. Several risk factors have been identified. Risks include short-term, long-term  and emerging risks. Risk Management  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 32 2-29"
"Group Frequency Key Topics Response to Key Topics All employees Continuous •        Pay •   Conditions •    Retention •     Linde provides a range of employee benefits that reward performance. •  Linde has a robust training and development program and annual employee performance  appraisals. All employees Continuous •     Employee retention and  engagement •    Linde’s worldwide 2024 employee engagement scored favorably relative to established  benchmarks. Positive level exceeding external"
"benchmarks in employee engagement based  upon global survey: 78 percent engagement. Group Frequency Key Topics Response to Key Topics All customers Continuous and periodic •        Productivity •  Competitive advantage •         Linde works continuously to offer customers relevant technologies to improve their resource  efficiency and positive environmental impacts, particularly in energy use and the reduction  of GHG emissions. All customers Continuous and periodic •     Safety •        Product"
"knowledge •     Quality •       Reliable supply •       Globally, Linde provides customers with a safe, reliable and quality supply of critical  products. See GRI 416-1. Subset concerned about  ESG issues Periodic •         Climate change •        Energy efficiency •     Globally, Linde works with customers to improve their energy efficiency and reduce GHG  emissions.  Collaboration for  innovation Continuous •  Competitive advantage  and customer satisfaction •      Consistent with our vision"
"and mission, the company is committed to helping customers by  delivering innovative and sustainable solutions. In many cases, its innovative technology  solves environmental challenges, allowing its customers to be more productive while using  fewer natural resources and energy, and producing fewer emissions. Subset of customers Periodic •       Satisfaction level •    Linde surveys customer satisfaction biannually using the Net Promoter Score (NPS). Linde’s  latest survey, which was conducted"
"in 2023, confirmed satisfaction with a NPS of 42. This section describes ongoing engagement on key topics with several relevant stakeholder groups. They are invited to voice their opinions, which in turn  provides value to the company. Stakeholder feedback was integrated into Linde’s process to determine PFs, KPIs and company goals and targets.   Employees  2-29 Linde is committed to the safety, well-being and professional development of all employees worldwide. The company is committed to"
"providing a safe  and inclusive workplace with an emphasis on the highest standards of integrity and professional performance. This allows Linde to maintain a high rate of  employee engagement, which helps attract and retain talent. Customers  2-29 Customer satisfaction is crucial to Linde’s results. A significant portion of Linde’s revenue is earned from recurring customers and retained accounts. In  addition to an analysis of customer retention, we assess the satisfaction level of a subset of"
"our largest accounts. Engaging Stakeholders  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 33 Group Frequency Key Topics Response to Key Topics Investors Continuous •    Shareholder return •    Linde’s stock performance consistently outpaces major indices, including the S&P 500. Continuous •      ESG and sustainability •        Linde is frequently recognized for outstanding performance in sustainability. We consistently  excel in premier sustainability investment indexes and rankings. Linde is"
"listed on major  investment indexes such as the Dow Jones Best-In-Class Index and FTSE4Good. Group Frequency Key Topics Response to Key Topics Electric utility and capital  equipment suppliers Continuous •  Energy efficiency •     Linde works with our electricity and capital equipment suppliers around the globe to identify  and implement programs that optimize energy efficiency in our offices and facilities. Contract drivers Continuous •      Safety •        Contract drivers receive the same or"
"comparable levels of training as Linde drivers. Minority suppliers  Continuous •   Capacity building •     Linde seeks to promote engagement and help build capacity among suppliers designated as  diverse business enterprises. Shareholders  2-29 Linde has a strong shareholder focus. Meetings held with investors and broader ESG groups confirmed Linde’s ongoing commitment to sustainability. We  emphasized that our priorities were to retain our respective strong programs, to develop our"
"sustainability and climate change targets and to integrate  sustainability globally across Linde. Suppliers  2-29 Linde infuses its core values through supply chain engagement initiatives structured to cultivate supplier capacity. This drives better business  performance, sustains higher quality and improves eco-proficiency and product development, including access to innovation. We optimize initiatives  locally and across the globe by focusing on select commodities and distinct groups of"
"suppliers.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 34 Group Frequency Key Topics Response to Key Topics Corporate: Sustainability and  Global Giving programs Continuous •        Diversity •     Education •     Healthcare •    Environment •   Community •     Resilience •    Community engagement is a part of Linde’s culture and is encouraged by leadership. Linde engages  with its communities by building close relationships with local providers of emergency services, with  employee volunteer"
"projects that help build community resilience and through the Linde Global  Giving Program (see the disclosures for GRI 201-1, 203-1, 203-2, 413-1, 413-2). •       Linde has a strong community engagement program and activity in all businesses (see the  disclosures for GRI 203-1, 203-2, 413-1 and 413-2). Unemployed &  underemployed  Universities  Military Continuous •   Capacity building •     Linde’s Skills Pipeline workforce development program addresses labor shortages by helping to  build"
"capacity. See GRI 413-1 for more discussion. Group Frequency Key Topics Response to Key Topics Government agencies Continuous •    Compliance •    Linde maintains a detailed oversight process to ensure that its activities are conducted in a legal,  ethical and transparent manner. •         Linde trains employees on issues related to doing business with the government and complying  with anti-trust and competition laws and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and conducts  internal"
"audits annually. •  Linde meets with international, national, sub-national and local government officials to discuss  energy costs, energy efficiency, tax and trade-related issues and the environmental benefits of  Linde technologies. Communities  2-29 Community is a Linde value. Linde is, at its core, a “local” company. We make long-term investments in communities where we build facilities and source  locally for talent, leadership and suppliers. This, in turn, helps strengthen Linde’s"
"reputation and business relationships. Government Agencies  2-29 Linde has a strong global ethics and compliance program. Linde’s Government Relations department participates in discussions with international,  national and sub-national government bodies regarding legislation that impacts our business, drives energy efficiency, delivers positive outcomes in  electricity regulation, and supports our unique technologies to produce clean energy. See the disclosure for GRI 415-1. Group Frequency Key"
"Topics Response to Key Topics Industry groups Continuous •         Policy development •    In many cases, a Linde executive holds a board seat and/or serves on a relevant committee,  or Linde participates in projects where it views membership strategic. See list of Membership  Associations. •      Linde also participates in additional local and regional organizations. Chemical industry Continuous •  Responsible Care® •     Linde is externally audited for conformance to the Responsible Care"
"Management System® (RCMS®)  and is a signatory of the Responsible Care Global Charter. Industry Associations and Groups  2-29 Linde is a member of a range of trade associations, business associations and alliances, including national chemical associations and industrial gas  associations in the company’s key geographies, and manufacturers associations and chambers of commerce, through which it engages in dialogue  with government officials and stakeholders about issues that are important to the"
"company and its business. See the next page for a full list of industry  associations.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 35 Global Holds a position on  the governance body Participates  in projects or  committees Provides substantive  funding beyond routine  membership dues Hydrogen Council International Oxygen Manufacturers Association (IOMA) Americas American Chemistry Council (ACC) American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers Association (Associate Member) American Institute of"
"Chemical Engineers (AICHE) Business Council for International Understanding California Manufacturers and Technology Association HR Policy Institute Louisiana Chemical Association National Enhanced 0il Recovery Initiative (NE0RI) NY Chemistry Council Puerto Rico Manufacturers Association Society of Human Resource Management (SHRM) Texas Association of Manufacturers Texas Chemical Council Texas Taxpayers and Research Association Asia-Pacific Asia Industrial Gas Association (AIGA) Europe Clean"
"Energy Partnership Deutscher Wasserstoff- und Brennstoffzellenverband Deutsches Aktieninstitut European Industrial Gas Association (EIGA) Förderkreis der Deutschen Industrie e.V. H2Global Stiftung  Hydrogen Europe Hydrogen Power Storage & Solutions East Germany (HYP0S) Industriegaseverband (IGV) 0st-Ausschuss der Deutschen Wirtschaft Stifterverband für die Deutsche Wissenschaft Verband der Chemischen Industrie (VCI) Verband Deutscher Maschinen- und Anlagenbauer (VDMA) Verein der Bayerischen"
"Chemischen Industrie Verband der Industriellen Energie- und Kraftwirtschaft e.V. (VIK) Memberships of associations  2-28 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations where Linde: GEN (1): Memberships of Associations  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 36 Selected Stakeholder Recognition: Global Recognition   Recognition by SRI (Socially Responsible Investing) Investors See full listing in the Sustainable"
"Development/Recognition area on the company’s website at: https://www.linde.com/about-us/awards-and- recognition.  Linde is listed on major ESG investment indexes, including the following: •       Dow Jones Best-In-Class Index (World and North America)  •      FTSE4Good Sustainability, Compliance & Ethics •         0ne of the 2024 World’s Most Ethical Companies by the Ethisphere Institute  •   S&P Global Sustainability Yearbook 2025 •       Golden Peacock Sustainability Award Inclusion •"
"Forbes 2024 World’s Best Employers •    Forbes 2024 World’s Top Companies for Women  •  Time’s World’s Best Companies 2024 Business and Regional Recognition   Communities and Community Groups •       Excellency Trophy from West University Timisoara (Romania) •    Recognition as a Socially Responsible Company by the Mexican Center for Philanthropy and the Alliance for Corporate Social Responsibility for the 15th  consecutive year (Mexico) •     Dream Team at Work (Italy) •    United Way"
"Compliance and Ethics •      Corporate Integrity 500 by the Business Magazine CNN Expansion (Mexico)  Customer and Customer-Related •        Modern Consumer Award for Excellence in Customer Service in the industry segment for White Martins (Brazil) •   Prémio Cinco Estrelas 2024 (Portugal)  •        ColdChain Qazaqstan — History Maker 2024 (Kazakhstan)  •        Certificate of Appreciation for exceptional cooperation and support in supplying liquid nitrogen to Petro Rabigh plant (Saudi Arabia)"
"•        Prix Galien 2024 in the E-health category for its AIRGENIOUS (France)  •        Portugal Digital Award 2024 (Portugal)  •       Valor Innovation Award (Brazil) 2-29 Stakeholder Groups Engaged by  the Organization  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 37 Inclusion •  Fair360’s 2024 Top 50 Companies List (United States)  •         DEI Employer Award (China) •    EqualitA Quality seal for Linde Gas Austria Employees •         Great Place to Work Certifications for Peru, Mexico,"
"Colombia, Ecuador, Panama and Venezuela •  Family-Friendly Corporation Certificate by the Korean Ministry of Gender Equality and Family  •         Reliable Employer Award 2023/2024 by the German-Hungarian Chamber of Industry and Commerce (DUIHK) (Hungary) •  Top Employer China 2024 for the 10th consecutive year •         Youth-Friendly Small Giants Certificate by the Korean Ministry of Employment and Labor (M0EL) •         Good Employer Charter 2024 (Hong Kong)  •       Mercer China Healthiest"
"Workplace 2024-2025 Environment •       Blue Flag Ecological Program (Bandera Azul Ecol6gica) by the National Commission of the Blue Flag (Costa Rica) •        Carbon Footprint Product certified by Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management 0rganization (TG0): HyC0 plant •       Recognized in the 2024 edition of the Fortune China ESG Impact List •   Reforestamos Mexico’s Ally of the Year Award for 13 consecutive years of planting trees Industry Associations, Professional Associations and Government"
"Agencies •      Clean Industry Re-certification from Mexico’s Federal Environmental Protection Agency (PR0FEPA) •       Commendation from the governor of Gyeonggi Province for Linde’s contribution to raising investment (South Korea) •      Recognition for Excellent Environmental Performance by the Ministry of the Environment, Clean Transportation Program (Mexico) •         Sustainable Environmental and Safety 0rganization 2024 by the Industrial Estate Authority of Thailand: Linde HyC0 and Rayong"
"CSCM-Gold Star Flag •      Timis County Award, first place, for Linde Gaz Romania in the category industry, large enterprises, and manufacture of industrial gases •       $50 million USD Tower of Export Award from the 60th Trade Day Celebration held by the Korea International Trade Association (KITA)  •   The Best Investor 2024 — Reliable Industrial Partner (Kazakhstan)  •    Proud partner — Astana Mining & Metallurgy Congress (Kazakhstan) •      Top Fleet Employers 2024: Third consecutive year"
"— National recognition of employers who meet HR standards of excellence in the trucking and  logistics industry (Canada) •     Yantai “Investment Promotion Partner” (China) •         The Responsible Care Award (Czech Republic) •   Chemical Industry Comprehensive Responsibility Certification by the Comprehensive Responsibility Management System (SARI) in Mexico •   Chemical Industries Education and Training Authority Award for the Most Innovative CEO in the Chemical Industries of South Africa"
"(South Africa) Safety •       Compressed Gas Association (CGA): Approximately 30 individual site performance awards •         European Industrial Gases Association (EIGA) Company Safety Award 2024 in recognition for the lowest recordable work injury rate in member  category •  European Industrial Gases Association (EIGA) Road Safety Award 2024 for Cylinder transport for more than 2 million km driven (Linde France SA) •        European Industrial Gases Association (EIGA) Road Safety Award 2024"
"for Bulk transport for less than 5 million km driven (Linde Gas a.s.)  •    European Industrial Gases Association (EIGA) Road Safety Award 2024 for Bulk transport more than 5 million km driven  •         23 European Industrial Gases Association (EIGA) Zero Accident Location Awards •         CGASafe Facility Performance Awards for sites in the United States and Canada •         BizSAFE Partner accreditation from WSH Council, Ministry of Manpower (Singapore) •      Bronze recognition from the"
"0ccupational Safety and Health Division, Ministry of Labor, for Zero Accident Campaign to Thailand 2024: Wellgrow plant •   All Ireland Occupational Safety Award •         Third Place Bulgarian National Award on Safety and Health at Work 2024 (Bulgaria) •     Shanghai Hazardous Chemicals Industry Safety Alliance — Industrial Gas Alliance (China) •       Health and Safety Self-Management Program (PASST) Certification by the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (STPS) in Mexico •  Commendation"
"from the Korea Gas Safety Corporation for significant contributions to safety  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 38 Economic Topics  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 39 Driving Decarbonization in Cement with CCUS Technology The cement industry, a significant contributor to global CO₂ emissions, is undergoing a transformative shift towards sustainability, with carbon  capture, utilization, and storage (CCUS) technologies playing a crucial role. Linde is at the forefront of this"
"transition, providing essential expertise  and technology to groundbreaking projects undertaken by industry leaders like Holcim and CEMEX. These initiatives not only aim to drastically reduce  emissions but also to advance a circular economy by repurposing captured CO₂ as a valuable resource. At Holcim’s Lägerdorf plant in Germany, the Carbon2Business project exemplifies this approach. With Linde providing key technology, this project  will capture approximately 1.2 million tons of CO₂ annually"
"using Oxyfuel technology. Linde’s expertise in oxygen and CO₂ production is vital to the  project’s success. The captured CO₂ will be repurposed as a valuable raw material, with the goal of making the Lägerdorf plant one of the world’s first  climate-neutral cement facilities. This project demonstrates a commitment to mitigating climate impact and fostering sustainable prosperity. Similarly, Linde is collaborating with CEMEX on a large-scale CCUS project at CEMEX’s Rüdersdorf Cement Plant in"
"Germany. Leveraging Linde’s  innovative HISORP® CO₂ capture technology, this project aims to capture 1.3 million metric tons of CO₂ per year. The captured CO₂ will be processed and  transported for permanent offshore storage, showcasing CCUS as a critical solution for long-term decarbonization.  Both the Holcim and CEMEX projects are supported by substantial funding from the EU Innovation Fund, underscoring the importance of financial  mechanisms in scaling these vital decarbonization"
"technologies. These collaborative endeavors demonstrate a shared commitment to achieving net- zero emissions and paving the way for a more sustainable future for the cement industry. Supporting Decarbonization in Chemical Production: Electrified Steam Cracking After three years of intensive development, engineering, and construction, the world’s first demonstration plant for electrically heated steam cracking  furnaces is now operational at BASF’s Ludwigshafen, Germany site. This collaborative"
"effort between Linde, BASF, and SABIC marks a transformative  step toward decarbonizing the chemical industry. Steam crackers are essential for producing key chemical building blocks like olefins and aromatics. However, conventional steam cracking relies on  fossil fuel combustion at extremely high temperatures, resulting in significant CO₂ emissions. This innovative demonstration plant, integrated into  existing crackers, will prove that continuous olefin production is possible using"
"electricity as the heat source. By powering the process with renewable  energy, this cutting-edge technology has the potential to reduce CO₂ emissions from this energy-intensive industry by at least 90%. In two separate demonstration furnaces, two different heating concepts will be tested.  •       Direct heating: Electric current is applied directly to cracking coils. •       Indirect heating: Radiant heat is generated from surrounding elements.  Together, these furnaces process about 4 tons of"
"hydrocarbon feedstock per hour, using 6 megawatts of renewable energy. Supported by a €14.8  million grant from the German Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Action, the project will gather crucial data on material behavior and  processes under commercial conditions.  Linde will commercialize these groundbreaking technologies under the new STARBRIDGE™ trademark, setting a new standard for sustainable  petrochemical production and accelerating the industry’s transition to a low-"
"carbon future.   Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 40 Economic Management approach for material topics  3-3 Financial performance is reported in Linde’s financial reports. The economic dimension of sustainability is broader: it concerns the organization’s  impacts on the economic conditions of its stakeholders and on economic systems at the local, national and global levels. The Economic category  illustrates the flow of capital among different stakeholders as well as the main economic"
"impacts of the organization on investors, governments,  employees, customers, suppliers and communities where the company operates or has an effect. This section reports on Linde’s contribution to the  sustainability of a larger economic system: its economic performance, market presence and indirect economic impacts. Material Topics  3-2 Material Topics for reporting include: Economic Performance, Market Presence, Indirect Economic Impacts, Procurement Practices, Anti-Corruption,  Anti-"
"Competitive Behavior and Tax. Organizational Responsibility, Accountability and Incentives Linde’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and the Board of Directors are accountable for the economic health of the company. Responsibility for  performance lies with the businesses. Performance is consolidated and reported to the Board by the responsible executives: Executive Vice President  (EVP) and Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO); EVP and Chief Financial Officer; EVP and Chief Legal Officer;"
"accountable Senior Vice Presidents  (SVPs); Chief Compliance Officer (CCO); vice presidents of Safety, Health, Environment and Quality (SHEQ), Sustainability and the Center of Excellence  (COE); and Procurement leadership. Integrity is a corporate value, an expectation of behavior and non-negotiable. Linde’s Code of Business Integrity (CBI) affirms its commitment to  fairness, transparency and trust as the basis for growth and prosperity for its employees, customers, suppliers, markets and"
"communities. The Board of  Directors monitors the implementation of the CBI. Its responsibilities include conducting a periodic review of the policy and overseeing management’s  preventive, reporting, investigation and resolution programs for implementing this policy. The CBI is posted on the company website and is  communicated to employees. It provides clear instructions on expected behaviors to conform with the CBI and for reporting concerns about potential  non-conformance. Employees also"
"receive training and certification in the CBI annually. Subcontractors and other stakeholders are expected to follow  this standard. The Board Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the processes and results for certification of employees’ understanding of, and  compliance with, the company’s CBI and compliance policies.  Linde has appointed a CCO within the Legal department. The CCO reports to the EVP and Chief Legal Officer, who reports to the CEO. Compliance with  policies prohibiting"
"corruption or anti-competitive behavior and the maintenance of Linde’s reputation for strong ethics and integrity are managed  under the CCO, who also oversees compliance with policies related to the CBI, including human rights. Linde’s Human Rights Policy is publicly  available, and the vice president, Sustainability, manages the periodic review of this policy. The Board’s Audit Committee reviews the company’s key compliance risks and compliance program, including its design, implementation and"
"effectiveness, with the CCO and the EVP and Chief Legal Officer. Linde follows the law and is governed by all applicable local laws wherever it is located. If there is a conflict between local law and the CBI or  company policy, Linde follows the stricter standard within the framework of the applicable laws. Information and cybersecurity risk management fall under the oversight of the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee receives an annual review,  followed by quarterly updates, of the Company’s"
"cybersecurity systems, enhancements, strategies and risk management efforts, and the Chair of the  Audit Committee will be promptly notified of any material cybersecurity breach incident. In addition, the full Board reviews cybersecurity as part of  its regular risk reviews. Linde has appointed a Global Chief Information Officer (CIO) reporting to the Chief Financial Officer (CFO). A Chief Information  Security Officer reports to the CIO and is supported by a global IT security team."
"Cybersecurity is identified as a top enterprise risk given the company’s reliance on information technology systems and networks for business and  operational activities. Linde has taken steps to address these risks and concerns by implementing cybersecurity and risk management processes that  include advanced security technologies, internal controls, network and data center resiliency and disaster recovery processes.   Linde is implementing a series of security enhancements based on the Zero"
"Trust principle. Linde maintains a Standard Operating Procedure for  Global Security Incident Response that defines how Linde responds to cyber incidents, including escalation, reporting and remediation procedures.  Dedicated cybersecurity teams conduct surveillance for potential threats and implement both procedural and technological controls to protect data  and to maintain safe, uninterrupted operations. The company engages both internal audit and third parties in connection with these"
"efforts to provide  independent analysis and advice on cybersecurity risks, incidents and other cyber security related matters. In addition, to help our people recognize   Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 41 information and cybersecurity concerns and respond accordingly, Linde conducts mandatory trainings and cybersecurity awareness programs for  employees. Linde maintains an Information Security Management policy that is aligned with ISO 27001 and designed to ensure the integrity and"
"protection of  data, including the monitoring and response to information security threats. The policy forms the basis for underlying security standards, guidelines  and procedures, including the integration and enhancement of information security in system and software development, and is applicable to all of  Linde, including the management of information security in supplier relationships.  In addition, Linde maintains a Cyber Security and Acceptable Use  policy applicable to all Linde"
"employees and contractors with access to information resources that establishes individual responsibility for information  security. Linde’s executive annual variable compensation is impacted by performance in non-financial areas considered to be Strategic Business Objectives.  These include achieving best-in-class performance in several areas, including global compliance. Policies, Commitments, Goals and Targets  3-3 Linde’s CBI and Supplier Code of Conduct (SCOC) are provided on its website"
"at: https://www.linde.com. As described in the Materiality, Priorities and Targets section, Linde’s sustainability Priority Factors (PFs) have related Key Performance Indictors  (KPIs). Linde’s economic PF is Integrity and Compliance, which has a related target. In addition, several of the climate change targets are economic and  environmental. See Performance Towards Targets. This section reports against the relevant GRI Standards for these PFs, in addition to GRI disclosures  that are not PFs"
"but that may be of interest to various external stakeholders. Mechanisms for Grievance and Recourse  2-25 Values and policies are actively communicated to employees around the world to outline Linde’s expectations of conduct wherever it does  business. Linde takes these standards very seriously, and non-compliance can result in severe disciplinary action, up to and including termination  of employment. Employees are actively encouraged to report suspected complaints and concerns, or to"
"anonymously report violations, through  several channels, including the Integrity Hotline. It also encourages customers, vendors or other observers to use the hotline to submit complaints or  allegations about these or other matters.  Linde’s CBI also prohibits retaliation for reporting.  Programs, Projects, Initiatives These are described in the following Economic disclosures.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 42 Other 2% Education 21% Community Support 20% Environment 11% Diversity"
"35% Health & Wellness 7% Disaster Relief 4% North America 60% South America 4% APAC (Asia, Pacific) 23% EMEA (Europe, Middle East  & Africa)   13% Direct economic value generated and distributed Revenue  201-1 2024 revenue: $33.0 billion See Linde’s 2024 Annual Report (10k) for consolidated financial statements and a discussion of Linde’s financial results. Charitable Spend  201-1 Linde Global Giving Program 2024 spend: $11.7 million. The charts below provide a breakdown of Linde’s global giving"
"support by strategic philanthropic focus area and geography. See also 413-1. Additionally, charitable funds, in-kind donations and resources contribute to the overall positive impact on local communities. In 2024, these included: •     In-kind donations raised and donated, including food, clothing, seedlings, product donations and other, but not including cash raised or donated:  more than $590,000 (including more than $380,000 through the Community Engagement Program and an additional $212,000"
"through the Global  Giving Program, representing product donations such as Linde gases.) •      Approximate value of service by Linde volunteers: $1.9 million •        Approximate value of management support/overheads: $520,000 including fees paid to external organizations for vetting and processing  organizations, included in cash contributions above, as well as an approximation of the staff time to manage the Global Giving and Community  Engagement programs. (Note: Programs are internally"
"managed; Linde does not charge overhead to these programs.) In 2024, Linde employees’ generosity was displayed through their personal donations of approximately $1.2 million, which was matched by the Global  Giving program as part of the cash contributions above. See also the disclosure for GRI 413-1 for information on community engagement.  See also the disclosure for GRI 203-1 for additional information on  indirect economic impacts. EC (1): Global Giving Spending by Area, 2024 EC (2): Global"
"Giving Spending by Geography, 2024  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 43 Tax Strategy  207-1, 207-2, 207-3 The nature of Linde’s industrial gases business is substantially local. As a result, Linde generates income and pays taxes in jurisdictions in which it has  business operations. Cross-border transactions within Linde are conducted at arm’s length and in compliance with applicable transfer price regimes,  including transfer price determination rules. Linde’s business, particularly"
"within the industrial gases segment, is capital-intensive. Linde believes that capital investment provides the basis for  economic growth; therefore, the company supports tax policies that promote capital investment. Linde is committed to developing new technologies that help its customers increase productivity and achieve environmental benefits in a wide range  of industries. Linde also supports tax policies that promote innovation and protect the value of intellectual property. Linde’s"
"intellectual property  assets are primarily developed and maintained in the U.S. and Germany, both geographies that are not typically regarded as low-tax countries. Transfer of these assets to low-tax jurisdictions is not part of Linde’s tax planning. Linde, as a multinational company, supports the continued expansion of a network of bilateral income tax treaties to reduce barriers to cross-border  investment and eliminate double taxation. For all these reasons, Linde advocates for tax policies"
"that drive economic growth, particularly in areas of increased operating efficiency and enhanced  local production and development. In line with its CBI, Linde manages its tax affairs in a responsible and transparent manner that complies with applicable tax legislation. Tax planning  has commercial and economic substance.  Linde maintains processes and controls designed to minimize the risk of errors.  These processes and  controls are regularly monitored, reviewed and tested, and support the"
"preparation and submission of its tax returns. Linde has a responsibility to its shareholders to maximize returns and structure its affairs in an efficient manner, including taxes. Linde’s effective tax rate and tax exposures are reviewed annually with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Linde discloses its effective tax  rate publicly, together with the associated risks for the company’s future tax rate, in Linde’s 2024 Annual Report (10k) on its website.    Linde 2024 Sustainable"
"Development Report 44 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities  due to climate change  201-2 For information on financial and other risks and opportunities from climate change, see Linde’s annual CDP response. Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans  201-3 A defined benefit and/or a defined contribution plan is available to all U.S. employees, as well as to employees in some other countries. Further detail  is provided in Note"
"16 in Linde’s 2024 Annual Report (10k). Dependent upon the business and date of hire, employees may participate in various programs, which may include defined benefits and contributions. Retirement coverage for employees of the company’s international subsidiaries is provided by those companies through separate plans that are typical  for the country of employment. Financial assistance received from government  201-4 Linde periodically receives grants from government entities (e.g., the"
"Department of Energy in the U.S., Department of Research and Education BMBF/ Department of Economy BMWI in Germany) primarily to sponsor innovation. Linde also periodically receives local, state, country or regional economic  development incentives related to capital investments and participates in collaborative efforts.   Ratios of standard entry-level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage  202-1 One hundred percent of employees in all business units (BUs) earn at least the local"
"minimum wage. Linde’s CBI reinforces its commitment to “provide  equal employment opportunity, and we recruit, hire, promote and compensate people based solely on merit and ability.” See also Linde’s Human  Rights Policy, provided on its website at: https://www.linde.com/sustainability/policies-and-position-statements/human-rights-policy.  Linde’s compensation policy assigns jobs into pay levels based on job descriptions so that people performing the same type of job functions are in the  same"
"pay range, regardless of age, gender or race. To ensure that its compensation policy is being appropriately administered, the company conducts  annual pay equity analyses in the U.S. and in other countries where required by law. Specific salary information is confidential. Proportion of senior management hired from the local community  202-2 Linde’s business model is locally driven: Consistent with its growth goals and goals to grow innovation capacity in emerging economies, Linde has a"
"commitment to source and develop local talent. Many country or regional business leaders are local or regional nationals. In hiring and promoting,  the company considers local leadership, who understand the culture and business practices of the area. This provides ideal role models for the local  workforce and offers a more cost-effective option than moving leaders from another country. The following activities help ensure that local talent receives leadership opportunities: 1.    Increase local"
"recruiting efforts. 2.   Train and develop current workforce for advancement. 3.         Offer opportunities for language learning to promote the ability to operate effectively in a multi-national environment. 4.     Create opportunities for high-potential local nationals to have special assignments outside their home countries. 5.    Collaborate with educational programs to develop the local workforce. See the disclosure for GRI 405-1. Infrastructure investments and services supported  203-1 A"
"significant portion of the company’s applications support the development of social and economic infrastructures. Linde gases help to enable  safe drinking water for more than 253 million people each day. Industrial and specialty gases enable cleaner and more efficient economic growth  in industries from cement to steel. Linde applications are also integral to the development of future energy infrastructures (e.g., applications for  renewable energy and second-generation biofuels). The company"
"is committed to improving the quality of life in the communities it serves.  See the disclosure for GRI 201-1 for information on how the  Global Giving contribution was distributed by focus area and business region.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 45 Significant indirect economic impacts  203-2 Linde’s business helps countries modernize with technologies that enable environmentally responsible economic growth. Linde provides careers and  associated benefits to more than 65,000"
"employees, many of whom are hired locally, as well as benefits to thousands of retirees. Indirect benefits  accrue to Linde’s vendors (also, often, contracted locally), as well as customers, shareholders and communities in which the company operates. For  descriptions of how Linde’s business model enables indirect economic, social and environmental benefits, see pages 10 and 11. The company hires local talent: •      Most emerging economy business leaders are host country or regional nationals."
"•        It sources local contractors. Substantially all contract drivers, and most contract construction workers, are sourced locally. •        It helps build capacity in local communities. Linde employee volunteers provided a range of benefits to more than 360,000 people, mostly in  communities local to Linde sites. All Linde community engagement projects are encouraged to help meet specific needs identified by community leaders, but there is no science  to measure the impact of community"
"outreach. Linde uses a methodology developed by the London Benchmarking Group (LBG)  to evaluate the  indirect economic, environmental and social impacts of its community engagement activity for the company, its employees and beneficiaries (see the  disclosures for GRI 413-1 and 413-2). The significance of Linde’s economic and governance PFs and targets in the context of external benchmarks and stakeholder priorities is explained in  the Materiality, Priorities and Targets section. Proportion of"
"spending on local suppliers  204-1 (Note: This section responds to 204-1 and also responds to 2-6 and 2-8.) Policy Linde’s Supplier Code of Conduct (SCOC) is available on its website at: https://www.linde.com/about-us/procurement. Suppliers, contractors and third parties play a critical role in Linde’s ability to operate and provide products and services to its customers. Suppliers’  actions and practices also reflect on Linde. Therefore, the company chooses suppliers carefully based on merit"
"and a due diligence process. Linde  expects suppliers to comply with legal requirements and act in a manner that is consistent with Linde’s values and the principles outlined in its SCOC  and CBI. The SCOC defines Linde’s basic requirements for its suppliers pertaining to their responsibilities towards Linde and its stakeholders, societies and the  environment. As part of the standard documentation for all new and renewing contracts, suppliers must comply with the principles outlined in the"
"SCOC  and with Linde’s CBI or equivalent policies of their own. Specific expectations are laid out for Integrity and Legal Compliance; Human Rights and  Labor Standards; Health, Safety and Environment; Sustainability; Supply Chain Compliance and Grievances. A grievance mechanism is provided for both  internal and external complaints. Local Sourcing Linde works with suppliers in many countries in which it does business — more than 80 countries. Linde has a corporate value of community. This"
"reflects the nature of Linde’s industrial gas products: it is generally not economical to transport them distances greater than a few hundred miles from  the production facility. As a result, the company invests in building local facilities and hires locally for management, employees and contractors. The most significant sets of suppliers from the point of view of local talent sourcing are facility construction contractors and contract drivers.  Installation of new equipment, as well as ongoing"
"maintenance, is largely performed by local suppliers. Linde uses locally-sourced contract drivers in  most of its Asia Pacific countries; in EMEA (except for Germany and the U.K.); in South America; and in parts of Central America. 2-6 The company invests in supplier capacity-building to raise performance standards and share benefits at the same time. The company also values  opportunities to engage suppliers and team members to better understand product offerings and applications. Past examples"
"of supplier collaboration  include the Supplier Innovation Fair at the Linde Technology Center, where suppliers discussed technology topics with Linde team members. As part of  overall efforts to lower carbon dioxide emissions, Procurement teams often work with distribution management and other team members on efforts to  reduce fleet emissions, such as procuring renewable fuels.   Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 46 Promoting Supplier Diversity Providing innovative and valuable"
"solutions for customers around the globe requires diverse talents, perspectives and experiences. As part of this,  Linde supports programs that assist it in fostering relationships with a variety of qualified, diverse businesses for its supply chain around the globe. Linde’s Supplier Diversity Program in the U.S. encourages and supports the use of a variety of qualified distinct business enterprises. It seeks to  provide maximum practical opportunities for diverse businesses to participate in"
"the supply of goods and/or services that support the company’s  business model. The program has championed companies classified as small and diverse businesses for nearly two decades. On an annual basis, in collaboration  with senior management and support staff from the company’s Procurement team, a detailed small business subcontracting plan is established with  practical goals that the company strives to achieve with small businesses in procuring designated commodities. In 2024, the company"
"spent a total of  $594 million with small and diverse business enterprises including those owned by veterans, service-disabled veterans, women and minorities (ethnic  or non-ethnic). Approximately $465 million was procured from U.S. small businesses, representing products and services that covered approximately  800 different commodities and services. The company’s U.S. Procurement team has collaborated with its global affiliates to understand the supplier  diversity landscape and opportunities"
"in each country in which it operates. For example, in South Africa, Afrox has achieved Level 2 on the Broad  Based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) scorecard; a program meant to improve diversity in the workplace, implement skills development and  corporate responsibility programs, and provide business opportunities to black-owned businesses, which have been historically disadvantaged. By  leveraging the knowledge and skills of the company’s diverse employee population and continuing to"
"provide cultural awareness training around the  world, the company strives to achieve an organically inclusive environment that provides a competitive advantage in its supply chain. 2-6 Supplier Engagement: Investing in Suppliers on ESG is a Win-Win Linde works hard to deepen relationships with suppliers and contractors while ensuring that they meet its standards and business values. This brings  multiple benefits to the company and to the communities near to its operations. Linde puts a high"
"priority on evaluating risks associated with its  supply chain and collaborates with suppliers and other stakeholders where its involvement can make the most impact. Linde continuously works with its carriers on safety training, initiatives and sharing best practices to improve operational efficiency, reduce  environmental hazards and promote security and human rights.  Linde also works collaboratively with key suppliers to enhance tracking and reporting of its Scope 3 emissions. Through direct"
"engagement and  capacity building, Linde has been successful in advancing supplier awareness of environmental and climate change topics and continues to improve  the data accuracy of its own Scope 3 emissions accounting. Such engagements can unearth win-win approaches to reduce resources and provide social and environmental benefits throughout the supply chain.  Safety Training Worldwide contractor safety training: One hundred percent of contract drivers, and most contract construction workers,"
"are hired from local firms. In  addition to the jobs provided to locally based construction workers and drivers, in 2024, Linde invested more than 2 million hours in safety training for  contractors in several categories. This included approximately 30,000 instances of training for contractors. Contractor training averaged approximately  75 hours over the year, almost two work weeks. If each contractor hour costs Linde $20, this investment can be estimated at more than $44 million. In  all"
"cases, this training is directed towards achieving safer construction of Linde facilities and safer, more secure and more fuel-efficient transportation  of Linde products. Linde’s world-class results for contractor and driver safety are a measurable consequence of this investment. See the disclosure for  GRI 403-9. In addition, safety and other professional driver training results in a transfer of professional skills that increases the employability of the  recipient. For information on supplier"
"and contractor training, see the disclosure for GRI 414-2.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 47 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption  205-1, 2-24   Linde administers an annual risk assessment that is circulated to all business managers and functional leaders globally and covers 100 percent of all  BUs. Potential risks related to corruption are an explicit focus.  A Compliance Review Board (CRB) performs quarterly regulatory risk assessments. Dedicated Foreign Corrupt"
"Practices Act (FCPA) and anti-bribery  audits are also conducted. Since 2012, 59 internal audits have been conducted. These audits are related to anti-trust, anti-bribery and other  compliance matters, and anti-corruption, including the FCPA. Typically, at least three such audits are conducted in any given year.   Linde operates in certain jurisdictions identified as high risk based on the Corruption Perception Index from Transparency International. The company  has not identified significant"
"risks other than regular risks that are dealt with through training and certifications of employees. Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures  205-2   In 2024, Linde’s Board of Directors received training on the CBI, which includes anti-corruption policies and procedures. The company also trains all its  relevant employees globally on anti-corruption. The company has an established process to conduct thorough due diligence before contracting third  parties and"
"agents who interact with the government on the company’s behalf. Linde’s CBI applies to the company’s directors and employees, including its CEO, CFO and the Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer. This  CBI, which includes elements of compliance with laws, business integrity and ethics, has been approved by the Linde Board of Directors. To assist  employees and directors in complying with this code of ethics, management periodically develops specific standards implementing certain"
"provisions  of the code. Linde’s CBI is posted on Linde’s website. One hundred percent of Linde management and relevant employees are required to annually certify that they have read and understand the  company’s CBI, which includes a rigorous outline of the FCPA and anti-bribery laws. This is an online training and survey. Training to targeted  populations was conducted in 2024; the company trained 100 percent of the targeted population.  Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken"
"205-3 Linde takes its commitment to integrity very seriously. Non-compliance with the CBI, depending on the circumstances, can result in serious disciplinary  action, up to and including termination of employment. Employees are actively encouraged to report suspected complaints and concerns and  are expected to report violations through several channels, including the Integrity Hotline. Reports through the Integrity Hotline may be made  anonymously. It is a violation of company policy for any"
"person to retaliate against any individual who has reported any matter in good faith. Table SOC (12) provides the aggregate number of hotline reports. Linde also provides a summary of the types of reports received. See the disclosure  for GRI 406-1. All hotline reports are promptly handled, and identified issues are addressed. Further details are not provided in Linde’s public reporting  as they are business confidential. No confirmed incidents of violation of anti-corruption laws occurred in"
"2024. Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices  206-1 No anti-trust regulatory or enforcement action was initiated in 2024. Linde reports material regulatory matters in Note 17 “Commitments and  Contingencies” in  Linde’s 2024 Annual Report (10k).  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 48 Environmental Topics  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 49 Innovative Solutions for Zero Waste: Linde’s Commitment to Progress Linde’s Zero Waste program is"
"leading the charge in reducing waste generation and diverting materials away from landfills. In 2024, 451 of our  sites achieved the milestone of diverting 90% or more of their waste from landfills—beating our 2028 goal of 450 sites four years early. These sites  collectively prevented 200 million pounds of waste from reaching landfills in just one year. Building upon this momentum, Linde has set an ambitious new target: 100% participation in the Zero Waste program by 2035. Across the globe,"
"Linde  teams are driving innovation and sustainability, working toward a zero-waste future one site at a time. At a site in China, upgrading an older-model vacuum pump led to a 75% reduction in oil consumption and a 50% decrease in waste. This project  highlights how waste reduction can simultaneously drive cost savings and enhance productivity. In Germany, an Advanced Material Technologies site has taken steps to avoid difficult-to-recycle kitchen waste by phasing out disposable cups and"
"providing employees with reusable mugs. As a result, the site prevents approximately 60,000 disposable cups from reaching landfills every year. Meanwhile, at Linde’s corporate office in Danbury, CT, a long-running composting program has made a significant impact, diverting approximately 20%  of kitchen waste from landfills. Linde’s Zero Waste program exemplifies our dedication to sustainability and innovation. By implementing solutions across our global operations, we  are paving the way for a"
"cleaner, greener future—one impactful project at a time. Energy Management  Linde’s proactive and integrated energy portfolio management strategically addresses energy costs and strongly supports our sustainability  commitment. We optimize energy consumption across our value chain through efficient operations and the increasing use of lower-carbon energy  sources. Our dual focus involves enhancing our own energy efficiency and empowering our customers to reduce their emissions. We actively"
"invest  in technological innovation, including advanced air separation and hydrogen production (low carbon and renewable), to drive internal energy  optimization and the development of customer decarbonization solutions. Our energy management strategy emphasizes operational excellence through continuous improvement of energy management systems, meticulous  monitoring, data-driven analysis, artificial intelligence solutions and the implementation of best practices to minimize energy use and"
"reduce our  environmental footprint. A key component is the transition to lower-carbon energy sources, as demonstrated by our increasing procurement of  renewable electricity and deployment of technologies like FLEXASU® to better integrate intermittent renewable power into our operations. This  holistic approach delivers both environmental and bottom-line benefits. Successful initiatives such as the Energy Trust of Oregon’s Strategic Energy Management Program and our participation in the DTE"
"Energy Efficiency  Program have yielded significant energy savings through operational improvements and employee engagement. By fostering a culture of innovation  and sharing best practices across our organization, Linde not only reduces its own energy consumption but also develops and deploys solutions that  support a broader transition to a more sustainable, lower-carbon future.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 50 Environmental Management approach for material topics 3-3 The"
"environmental dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s impacts on natural systems, including ecosystems, land, air and water.  Linde’s core business depends on air as a natural resource. The company’s mission and business model make clear the goal to do more with less: to  create more value with fewer resources. Its sustainability PFs include a range of environmental topics aimed at reducing operational environmental  impacts and maximizing environmental contributions — the"
"benefits that Linde applications bring to customers and to the planet.  Material Topics 3-2 Material Topics for reporting include: Materials, Energy, Water, Biodiversity, Emissions, Effluents and Waste, and Supplier Environmental Assessment. Organizational Responsibility, Accountability and Incentives Linde’s CEO and the Board of Directors are accountable for environmental issues impacting the company. Linde’s full Board of Directors is responsible  for reviewing safety and environmental risk at"
"each Board meeting.  Responsibility for performance lies within the businesses. Performance is consolidated and reported to the Executive Leadership Team and to the  Board. Linde’s EVP and CHRO is the most senior officer responsible for environmental issues globally. Respective members of executive leadership are  responsible for the regional operating segments of the Americas, APAC and EMEA, as well as Engineering, and corporate functions, including Legal  and Human Resources (HR). Linde’s"
"Business Leadership Team is responsible for business operations across the globe. Linde’s Functional Leadership  manages and has direct responsibility for such areas as SHEQ, Technology, Clean Energy, Sustainability, Productivity and Digitalization.  Linde’s environmental compliance and management are managed under the vice president, SHEQ, who reports to the CHRO. The SHEQ organization  develops and maintains consistent methodologies, procedures and reporting. Safety is a corporate value at"
"Linde and is, therefore, non-negotiable.  The company is driven to ensure that its actions do not harm people, the environment or the communities in which it operates.  Several programs  and targets pertain to safety and environment: For example, Linde’s water program and water target are led and jointly maintained by the COE and  Sustainable Development (SD). COE also leads and maintains its program in Sustainable Productivity. The Zero Waste program is led and maintained  by SD. Linde’s"
"Sustainable Development Management System (SDMS) provides a monthly dashboard to review performance towards environmental  targets. It is jointly coordinated by SD, COE and SHEQ. Climate change targets are also reported monthly from the SDMS to the finance organization and  to the CFO. Linde’s executive annual variable compensation is impacted by performance in non-financial areas considered to be Strategic Business Objectives.  These include achieving best-in-class performance in several areas,"
"including productivity and environmental responsibility. Linde’s compensation  program design includes a component assessing annual performance against pre-established goals related to reducing greenhouse gas (GHG)  emissions. This component comprises 20 percent of the strategic non-financial performance payout. Policies, Commitments, Goals and Targets Linde has a CBI and a global Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Policy, both with commitments to environmental stewardship. Linde has issued a"
"Sustainable Development and Climate Change Position Statement, a Position Statement on the Importance of Ecosystems, Water Position Statement,  Position Statement Regarding Chemicals of Concern, and a Greenhouse Gas Recalculation Policy. As described in the Materiality, Priorities and Targets section, Linde’s Environmental PFs are Climate Change and Safety, Health and Environment. Each  of these PFs has related  targets; see Performance Towards Targets. This section reports against the relevant"
"GRI Standards for these PFs, in addition to  GRI disclosures that are not PFs but that may be of interest to various external stakeholders.  Mechanisms for Grievance and Recourse 2-25 Linde policies are communicated to employees around the world to outline its expectations of conduct wherever it does business. It takes these  standards very seriously, and non-compliance can result in severe disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment. Linde  employees are actively"
"encouraged to report suspected complaints and concerns, or to anonymously report violations, through several channels,  including the Integrity Hotline. The company also encourages customers, vendors or other observers to use the hotline to submit complaints or  allegations about these or other matters.  Programs, Projects, Initiatives In addition to the material below, see the following environmental disclosures. Training Environmental and safety training is conducted for all employees and all"
"contractors, as defined in the SHEQ Management System and Standard  Operating Procedures (SOPs) (see 404-1). Onboarding and ongoing training are conducted as part of the SDMS.   Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 51 Environmental Management System (EMS)  Linde’s strong global environmental management system (EMS) ensures that measures are in place to enable pollution prevention and control,  the responsible management of direct and indirect atmospheric emissions and waste, the protection"
"of natural resources and biodiversity, and the  management of environmental impacts from transportation or from the use and disposal of products and services. Linde is a member of the chemical  industry Responsible Care program. It strives to continually improve its health, safety and environmental performance; listen and respond to public  concerns; work with customers, carriers, suppliers, distributors and contractors to foster the safe and secure use, transport and disposal of chemicals;"
"achieve optimum environmental performance; and report goals and progress to the public. Linde’s global EMS conforms to the American Chemistry  Council’s (ACC’s) Responsible Care® Management System (RCMS) and is aligned with ISO 14001, the international standard for EMSs. External EMS Certification As a member of the ACC, Linde’s SHEQ Management System is audited by an accredited third party to ensure compliance with the ACC RCMS Technical  Specification in the United States and Canada. Among"
"Linde sites recognized for Responsible Care conformance, our Danbury corporate office is  recognized as compliant with ACC Responsible Care requirements for Environmental, Safety, and Security Management and Oversight Activities for the  Manufacture and Distribution of Industrial Gases. Linde was audited most recently in September 2022 (the certification cycle is 3 years).    See https://www.linde.com/about-linde/safety-and-environment. Linde is signatory to and in compliance with the"
"Responsible Care Global Charter, which includes active participation in Responsible Care programs in  all countries where programs exist and where Linde has significant business interests.  Linde businesses around the world conform to Linde’s worldwide SHEQ Management System. In the company’s major markets, they are certified to the  international EMS standard, ISO 14001, to national standards for EMSs or to other related standards. For example:  •         Our EMEA countries hold several"
"certifications to ISO and other International Standards. Germany, for example, is externally certified to ISO 50001,  the international standard for energy management systems, as well as ISO 14001  and ISO 9001.  •  Linde Engineering has obtained external certifications to ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and ISO 45001.  •         White Martins sites in Brazil maintain certifications to ISO 14001, ISO 9001, ISO 13485, FSSC 22000, and other quality standards. •     Several sites in Mexico are certified to the"
"PROFEPA Clean Industry Standard. PROFEPA is Mexico’s national environmental agency. •      Linde Advanced Material Technologies holds certifications to Nadcap, EASA, FAA and other aviation safety standards for their manufacturing  locations, as well as certification to international occupational health, safety, environmental and quality standards.  •   The Electronics Materials business is certified to the IATF 16949 quality management system standard. By revenue, 83 percent of Linde’s worldwide"
"gases production and engineering sites are externally certified to RCMS, ISO 14001 or an equivalent  national standard. Internal SHEQ Assessment Program All Linde sites, and other sites where Linde is a majority shareholder, are subject to evaluation for safety, environment and quality (the latter for  compliance with local medical regulations, where applicable). Quarterly assessment reports are provided to senior management. The full Board is  committed to review safety and environmental risks"
"at each board meeting. Regular assessments are a requirement of Linde’s SHEQ standards and help  ensure consistently high standards in all areas of safety, environmental protection, security and compliance. Linde’s internal SHEQ assessment program includes Type A and Type B assessments and facility self-assessments. Type A assessments are led by Global  SHEQ staff or their designated agent. Type B assessments are led by a member of one of the global BUs. Both type A and B assessments are"
"independent  of the facility being audited, and the number of these assessments is tracked by Global SHEQ. Facility self-assessments are also conducted by local or  regional personnel to help facilities self-identify areas in need of improvement and are not tracked outside of the local operating unit. In 2024, Linde  conducted 77 “A” assessment audits, all at Linde sites, and 316 internal “B” assessment audits as per business safety plans. See GEN (1). Internal Assessments 2021 2022 2023 2024"
"“A” Assessment audits conducted 70 93 85 77 “B” Assessment audits 328 271 333 316 GEN (1): Internal Assessments  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 52 External Environmental Data Assurance Linde’s environmental Key Performance Indicators (eKPIs) are externally assured. See the disclosure for GRI 2-5 for the verification letter.  Compliance with environmental laws and regulations 2-27 The company reports environmental violations with significant fines or non-monetary sanctions. Significant"
"violations are those costing more  than $10,000 (threshold as defined in the S&P Global Corporate Sustainability Assessment). See GEN (2). There were no accruals for significant  environmental violations at the end of any period reported below. Linde is not aware of any significant non-monetary sanctions. Environmental Violations and Fines 2021 2022 2023 2024 (b) Number of Violations with Significant Fines (a) 3 0 0 1 Value of Fines Related to Above in USD $85,000 $0 $0 $33,000 GEN (2):"
"Environmental Violations and Fines Units: USD (a) The violation assessed and paid in 2024 related to a violation in 2023. (b) Beginning in 2024, significant fines are reported for the year the fine was paid. Prior periods were reported based on the year that the violation occurred and have not been restated. Introduction   Linde is a resource-intensive company. Linde’s environmental performance year-on-year can best be evaluated on an intensity basis versus revenue.  In most cases, this shows a"
"positive trend. In addition, Linde’s business model is resource efficiency — to make more value than it consumes. The  environmental and other benefits of Linde applications are described in the Business Model section, the Creating Economic, Environmental and Social  Value section, and the Linde Applications Enable 2X Carbon Productivity section. Linde’s reporting boundaries for eKPIs are consistent with the financial reporting boundaries and financial control definition. Linde reports on all"
"eKPIs  for all subsidiaries, joint ventures (JVs) and other holdings included within its consolidated financial statements. Linde does not collect eKPI data for  minority holdings. EKPIs for JVs, which are not fully consolidated into the company financials (at-equity JVs), are collected but are only included in  external GHG reporting under Scope 3.  eKPI data is collected at a site level, defined as one independent facility or a group of co-located facilities  sharing one unique site"
"identification number. Note that data presented may be rounded.  Therefore, values may appear slightly different from the resulting sum of items in tables or charts. Materials used by weight or volume  301-1  Raw materials are procured through a global Procurement organization under global Procurement standards and expectations that include  requirements for material sustainability. Linde has supplier expectations that manage sustainability in its supply chain. Non-Renewable Materials Used Linde"
"estimates that approximately 1 percent by weight of the raw materials used to produce gaseous nitrogen, oxygen, argon, carbon dioxide and  hydrogen in 2024 were non-renewable, including natural gas and naphtha, which are used in hydrogen production, and helium that is recovered from  natural gas deposits.  Linde also builds air separation units (ASUs) and steam methane reformers (SMRs) and other plants. Construction materials for these are generally  from non-renewable sources: aluminum, carbon"
"steel, stainless steel, copper and brass alloys, brass and metals. The largest material by spend is steel.   Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 53 Renewable Materials Used Ninety-nine percent by weight of the raw materials used to produce gaseous nitrogen, oxygen, argon, carbon dioxide and hydrogen in 2024 were  renewable raw materials. Renewable raw materials used by Linde include air, water, carbon dioxide and hydrogen. These products represent  approximately 89 percent of the revenue"
"Linde received for the products it manufactures. Examples of products not included are those manufactured  by Linde Advanced Material Technologies (LAMT) and low-volume products, such as acetylene. Using air as its raw material, Linde produces oxygen, nitrogen, argon and rare gases through several air separation processes, of which cryogenic air  separation is the most prevalent. As air is a renewable natural resource, there is no negative environmental consequence to using this raw material."
"Process gases, including carbon dioxide, hydrogen, carbon monoxide, helium, specialty gases and acetylene, are produced by methods other than  air separation. In many cases, these are sourced as an industrial byproduct or waste. Some of these byproduct sources are renewable, but all offer a  means to reuse products that would otherwise have been waste. The volumes of process gases procured are considered business confidential. •    Most carbon dioxide is purchased from byproduct sources,"
"including chemical plants, refineries and industrial processes. These byproduct sources  include ethanol  fermentation facilities, where the waste carbon dioxide is considered biogenic. A portion is recovered from carbon dioxide wells. •  The majority of hydrogen and carbon monoxide are produced by either reforming of natural gas or by purifying byproduct sources obtained from  the chemical and petrochemical industries. In 2024, Linde procured 18 percent byproduct hydrogen.  •      Helium is"
"acquired from several sources, including helium-rich natural gas streams. •   Acetylene can be produced from calcium carbide and water. A significant percentage is purchased as a chemical byproduct. Recycled input materials used  301-2 Also see the disclosure for GRI 301-1 for information on renewable raw materials. As part of its sustainable supply chain program, Linde’s Procurement  organization works with vendors to reduce consumption of upstream, non-renewable natural resources. For some of"
"its business lines, Linde actively  sources recycled input materials by using byproducts from other industrial processes. The total weight of these byproducts as a percentage of total  material use is not reported here. Since 2011, most of the acetylene produced by Linde in the U.S. was sourced from byproduct acetylene, avoiding the mining of calcium carbonate and  the recycling or disposal of carbide lime. Some of the Linde carbon dioxide sold in the U.S. is sourced from ethanol fermentation (a"
"biomass source). As  a business, Linde is constantly researching innovative ways to expand the use of this application. Most gases are transported in pipelines or trucks and use little packaging. Cylinder products are typically transported by truck.  (See the disclosure for GRI 301-3.) Linde has a global engineering business, which designs and constructs new production plants. When building a new plant, the focus is on the re-use  of parts/components from other dissembled plants (e.g.,"
"refurbished parts) as much as possible. At the end-of-life of a production facility, parts and  components are checked, refurbished if required, and directly re-used or put in stock for future usage. Thus, most of the materials are recycled and  become input materials (e.g., for new plants). To avoid procuring new materials, the company has established several asset management programs that are actively identifying idle assets (e.g.,  cylinders) to ensure that they are put back into use rather"
"than purchasing new materials. The programs actively track all assets, are well reported and  yield good results.  Reclaimed products and their packaging materials  301-3 Linde produces very little packaging waste. Linde delivers most of its product in pipelines or bulk trucks, or in cylinders. As the products are  consumable, there is nothing to reclaim and no packaging material for the majority of products. The majority of cylinders used in the packaged gases  product lines are reusable. The"
"metal cylinders last about 40 years, are returnable and are typically reused multiple times. Where disposable cylinders  are used, recycling methods are recommended to customers.  Linde runs several large cylinder refurbishment centers worldwide as well as many smaller test shops and repair centers in many countries. In its  cylinder test shop in Wolverhampton, U.K., Linde typically has refurbished about 350,000 cylinders annually to avoid unnecessary scrapping.  301-1  Linde 2024 Sustainable"
"Development Report 54 Energy consumption within the organization  302-1 Note: Where amounts in MWh were converted to GJ, amounts in MWh were multiplied by 3.6. Fuel Consumption Linde’s total non-renewable fuel consumption in 2024 was 20.1 million MWh or 72.4 million GJ. This figure represents energy consumption and  excludes fuel consumed as a feedstock for production. Fuel types used included natural gas, diesel, oil and “other,” which includes naphtha and other  refinery fuel gas.  Electricity"
"Consumed Total electricity consumed in 2024 was approximately 42.5 million MWh, or approximately 153 million GJ. Linde reports total non-renewable electricity  consumed in 2024, which includes passive renewable electricity and other low-carbon electricity, as approximately 36.5 million MWh, or 131.4 million  GJ. Total active renewable electricity purchased in 2024 was 6 million MWh, or 21.6 million GJ.  Linde also tracks low carbon electricity, which includes both active and passive renewable"
"electricity and nuclear. Active renewable electricity is  classified as electricity procured through Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs); directly connected, 100 percent renewable electricity supplier contracts  or validated green energy certificates; or produced on-site using renewable generation. Passive electricity sources from the grid were calculated using  the latest location-based renewable or low-carbon energy percentages from the IEA, local sources such as eGRID, or, where available,"
"plant-specific,  market-based renewable electricity or low-carbon emissions factors according to the supplier contract/utility bill.  In 2024, active renewable electricity was 6.0 million MWh and passive renewable electricity was 9.1 million MWh, for a total of 15.1 million MWh.  Nuclear represented 4.7 million MWh of low-carbon electricity, of which 1.2 million MWh was actively sourced. This results in a total of 19.9 million  MWh of low-carbon electricity, which represents 47 percent of"
"Linde’s total electricity consumption in 2024. Linde electricity use in the UK is almost  all renewable using wind and almost all renewable in Brazil using hydroelectric. Low-carbon and renewable electricity is also sourced in the United  States, where both hydro and nuclear power are used, as well as in Colombia, India, Spain, the Philippines and other geographies. See Performance Towards Targets section for information about Linde’s low-carbon power sourcing target.  Steam Consumed Linde"
"consumed 10.1 million MWh, or 36.4million GJ, of steam in 2024.  Consumption of heating or cooling energy is not significant. Electricity, Heating, Cooling and Steam Sold Linde sold 9.3 million MWh of steam in 2024. Total Energy Consumed Linde consumed a total of 72.7 million MWh, or 257 million GJ, of energy in 2024. This is less than a 2 percent increase from 2023.  Linde tracks energy consumption through meters and utility bills, and collects information for each plant and location in a"
"global eKPI system. Newly  constructed plants less than 2 months old and de-minimis locations consuming less than 1,500 MWh are excluded from reporting.  Electricity 2021 2022 2023 2024 Active renewable electricity consumed 2,780,000 3,316,000 4,792,000 6,010,000 Passive renewable electricity consumed 9,125,000 9,236,000 8,232,000 9,138,000 Low carbon (nuclear) electricity consumed 5,051,000 5,469,000 4,865,000 4,737,000 Fossil electricity consumed 25,823,000 23,916,000 23,720,000 22,605,000"
"Total Electricity Consumed 42,779,000 41,937,000 41,609,000 42,492,000 EN (1): Electricity Units: MWh  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 55 Energy consumption outside of the organization  302-2 Linde did not consume energy outside the organization. Energy intensity  302-3 It is key to Linde’s business to manage energy use throughout the organization, including in its production processes. The company considers  production volumes to be business confidential. Internally, energy intensity"
"is tracked monthly and is a basis for Linde’s operational GHG intensity  targets; see the Performance Towards Targets section. Reduction of energy consumption  302-4 Linde’s sustainable productivity in 2024 yielded savings equivalent to approximately 1.8 million MWh, 440 billion BTU of natural gas and 5 million  gallons of diesel fuel. Linde has several initiatives to reduce energy in operations and at offices primarily focused on plant optimization and  efficiencies resulting in reduced energy"
"consumption. Interactions with water as a shared resource and management of water discharge-related impacts  303-1, 303-2 Water sourced from municipal utilities, surface waters and groundwater is considered fresh water (≤ 1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Solids); all other  sources are considered “other” (> 1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Solids). For more information on the company’s water impact, interactions with key stakeholders, management approach and commitment to water  stewardship, see Linde’s"
"Water Position Statement at: https://www.linde.com/sustainable-development/policies-and-position-statements/water- position-statement.   Water withdrawal, discharge and consumption  303-3, 303-4, 303-5  Water Withdrawal 303-3 Linde’s main uses of water include cooling and boiler systems for the production of steam for the SMR process to make hydrogen. In 2024, Linde  withdrew 1,109 million m3 of water. Linde tracks water withdrawals primarily through utility bills. No water sources were"
"significantly affected by  Linde’s withdrawal of water in 2024. Of the 1,109 million m3 of water withdrawn in 2024, 40 percent was from fresh water sources (municipal, surface water and groundwater), 40 percent  from seawater, and approximately 20 percent from third-party (industrial/recycled) sources. Linde estimates that more than 90 percent of the water  withdrawn in 2024 at Linde production plants (excluding once-through) was recycled numerous times through cooling towers before discharge."
"Overall, water withdrawal  in 2024 increased 5 percent compared to 2023, primarily related to new plants coming on stream. Water Discharge 303-4 Linde did not have any unplanned water discharges in 2024. No water bodies or related habitats were significantly affected by Linde water discharges  or runoff in 2024. Where Linde facilities discharge process water, discharges are governed by discharge permits issued by a regulatory agency. Linde estimated chemical  oxygen demand (COD) at these sites"
"to be 2,173 metric tons in 2024, which is a less than 1 percent decrease from 2023. 302-1 Total Energy 2021 2022 2023 2024 a. Non-renewable fuels purchased and consumed 21,012,000 19,707,000 20,134,000 20,085,000 b. Non-renewable electricity consumed¹ 39,999,000 38,621,000 36,817,000 36,480,000 c. Steam consumption 9,152,000 10,027,000 9,660,000 10,102,000 d. Total non-renewable energy consumption (a+b+c) 70,163,000 68,355,000 66,612,000 66,668,000 e. Total renewable electricity purchased or"
"generated²  2,780,000 3,316,000 4,792,000 6,010,000 Total Energy Consumed (d+e) 72,943,000 71,671,000 71,404,000 72,678,000 1 Row b (non-renewable electricity consumed) includes both fossil-fuel based electricity and passive renewable electricity. Since passive renewables are consumed from the grid, Linde does include this in row b since it did not directly purchase or generate  this power. 2 Row e includes only active renewable energy consumed. EN(2): Total Energy Units: MWh  Linde 2024"
"Sustainable Development Report 56 Linde discharged 1,021 million m3 of water in 2024, of which approximately 46 million m3 was wastewater. Linde also discharged once-through  cooling water back to the source from which it came. In 2024, 975 million m3 of water was discharged in this manner, of which 36 percent was to fresh  water sources, 44 percent was to seawater sources, and approximately 20 percent was to third-party sources. Water Consumption 303-5 Linde consumed 88 million m3 of water in"
"2024. Consumption is defined as total water withdrawn minus wastewater discharged, minus once-though  cooling water that is returned to the original source with no impact on quality. Consumption of total water withdrawn increased by 2 percent compared  to 2023. Consumption of fresh water is also reported in EN (4), by separate calculation. Consumption of fresh water was 101 million m3 in 2024, which is a 3  percent increase compared to 2023. EN (3): Total Water Withdrawal, Discharge and"
"Consumption Units: million m³ EN (4): Fresh Water: Withdrawal, Discharge and Consumption Units: million m³ Total Water Withdrawal, Discharge and Consumption 2021 2022 2023 2024 A. Fresh Water Withdrawal 457.2 453.8 451.2 448.1 B. Other Water Withdrawal – Seawater 298.6 387.6 388.9 439.8 C. Other Water Withdrawal – Third Party (Industrial/Recycled) 215.8 211.9 219.6 220.9 D. Total Water Withdrawal (A+B+C) 971.6 1053.3 1059.7 1108.8 E. Fresh Water Returned to Original Source"
"(once-through cooling water) 357.6 349.9 353.3 346.3 F. Other Water Returned to Original Source                        (once-through cooling water) – Seawater  298.6 385.9 387.2 432.0 G. Other Water Returned to Original Source                          (once-through cooling water) – Third Party 195.7 183.9 191.5 196.7 H. Wastewater Discharge (non-once-through) 39.2 45.3 42.0 46.1 I. Total Water Discharge (E+F+G+H) 891.2 965.0 974.0 1021.0 J. Total Water Consumption (D-I) 80.4 88.3 85.7 87.7 Fresh"
"Water Withdrawal, Discharge and Consumption 2021 2022 2023 2024 A. Municipal Water Withdrawal 61.7 58.0 55.5 58.4 B. Surface Water Withdrawal 386.3 385.4 389.4 381.9 C. Ground Water Withdrawal 9.2 10.4 6.3 7.8 D. Total Fresh Water Withdrawal (A+B+C) 457.2 453.8 451.2 448.1 E. Discharge: Fresh Once-Through Cooling Water  Returned to Surface Water Sources 357.6 349.9 353.3 346.3 F. Net Fresh Water Consumption (D-E) 99.5 103.9 97.9 101.8 Water-Stressed Areas Linde also tracks water withdrawal,"
"discharge and consumption and water intensity from sites with high water withdrawals (greater than 50,000 m³,  excluding once-through, non-contact cooling water) in areas of high water-stress (hi-hi sites).  See EN (5a) and EN (5b).   Areas of water-stress are defined by the WRI Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas. Linde determines sites to be in a high water-stressed area if the Atlas lists the  baseline water-stress as “high” or “extremely high.” Linde currently has two water related targets for hi-hi"
"sites: 1) implementation of water management plans at all hi-hi sites by 2028 and 2) 20  percent reduction in water intensity at hi-hi sites by 2035. Water intensity is calculated as water withdrawal (m3) per unit of production. In 2024,  approximately 89 sites were defined as in scope for these targets, a net increase of approximately 25 sites from the prior year, which reflected the  update from the 2019 to 2023 version of the Aqueduct tool. Due to the increased scope of plants resulting from"
"the update to the 2023 version of the  Aqueduct tool, this target has been re-baselined to 2024 with a reported intensity of 1.1. The tables below reflect the updated plant scope from 2024  only (prior periods have not be restated). See the Performance Towards Targets section for more information.  303-4  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 57 Biodiversity  304-1, 304-2, 304-3, 304-4 Biodiversity Linde’s operations do not have a significant impact on biodiversity.   When planning new"
"sites, processes are in place to ensure that Linde minimizes any potential negative impacts on biodiversity. Linde follows  internationally recognized guidelines when performing its evaluations, such as the Voluntary Guidelines on Biodiversity-Inclusive Impact Assessment  issued by the United Nations. Linde’s approach is to avoid operations near protected areas. In fact, because most of Linde’s sites are located in industrial areas or business parks,  protected areas are not in close proximity"
"to many of Linde’s facilities. If periodic surveillance finds site(s) within close proximity to a protected area,  Linde works to understand possible impacts and to minimize, restore and/or offset them, as appropriate, working with local stakeholders.  Because sites recognized as important to biodiversity may change over time, Linde periodically surveys the locations of its global industrial gas  production facilities and their proximity to protected areas, based on data provided by the"
"International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). This  surveillance is conducted at least every 3 years. Linde has conducted an analysis of production sites with respect to biodiversity impact, proximity to protected areas and prevalence of potentially  protected species, covering more than 900 sites in 2023. Linde continuously works to understand and mitigate any potential biodiversity impacts.     There are many examples of Linde sites working alongside local stakeholders and"
"organizations to preserve and protect local ecosystems. In 2024,  Linde teams planted and/or donated approximately 50,000 trees and seedlings as part of community engagement efforts. Many of these programs,  such as the collaboration with Reforestamos Mexico have been active for several years. Through this partnership, Linde teams in Mexico have helped  to remove invasive species and reforest approximately 200 acres of forest over the last decade. While deforestation is not common for Linde, the"
"company is still committed to positively impacting communities with the benefits provided by trees.  As part of its longstanding collaboration with the Arbor Day Foundation, Linde plants trees to “match” a proportion of the total site footprint for new,  greenfield sites designed and constructed by Linde Engineering.  For more information on Linde’s position on biodiversity and the importance of ecosystems, see the statement on Linde’s website at: https://www. linde.com/sustainable-"
"development/policies-and-position-statements/ecosystems-position-statement. Hi-Hi Sites Withdrawal, Discharge and Consumption 2021 2022 2023 2024 A. Withdrawal  31.5 42.4 58.6 118.4 B. Discharge 15.8 23.8 40.3 95.2 C. Consumption (A-B) 15.7 18.6 18.3 23.2 Hi-Hi Sites Fresh Water Withdrawal, Discharge and Consumption 303-3, 303-4, 303-5 2021 2022 2023 2024 A. Withdrawal  20.0 19.2 19.1 24.5 B. Discharge 3.2 2.8 2.6 0.1 C. Consumption (A-B) 16.8 16.4 16.5 24.4 Water Withdrawal Intensity – Hi-Hi"
"Sites 2024 Water withdrawal intensity 1.1 EN (5a): Water-Stressed Areas: Withdrawal, Discharge and Consumption Units: million m³ EN (5b): Fresh Water, Water-Stressed Areas: Withdrawal, Discharge and Consumption Units: million m³ EN (6): Water Withdrawal Intensity Units:  m³/unit of production 303-5  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 58 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions  305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5 GHG Inventory Methodology Linde’s GHG emissions disclosures have been prepared based on"
"a reporting year of January 1 to December 31, the same as the financial reporting  period. All GHG emissions figures are in metric tons of CO₂e and cover six gases in addition to carbon dioxide (CO₂): methane (CH₄), nitrous oxide (N₂O),  perfluorocarbons (PFCs), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), nitrogen trifluoride (NF₃) and sulfur hexafluoride (SF₆). Linde’s GHG emissions information was prepared with reference to the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable  Development’s"
"Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, revised edition (the GHG Protocol®). Global warming potentials (GWPs) are sourced from the latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Sixth Assessment Report. •     Timelines and Base Year GHG Emissions Linde reports on its eKPIs for the last 4 years in order to reflect the trend and development of KPIs.   The base year for Linde’s 2035 GHG emissions targets is 2021.  For performance against GHG targets, see the"
"Performance Towards Targets section. •       Excluded Sources of GHG Emissions Linde has very small office sites and smaller sales outlets (such as retail outlets), called “de-minimis” sites. Emissions from these sites are negligible  and are therefore not included in the GHG inventory. •    Prior Year Revisions Restatements are made in accordance with Linde’s GHG Recalculation policy. See the disclosure for GRI 2-4. •       External Verification Linde’s 2024 GHG inventory was verified by a"
"third party. In 2024, a Reasonable Assurance was performed on Scopes 1 and 2 and electricity  parameters.  Three categories of Scope 3 emissions were also verified by a third party to the limited assurance level.  A copy of Linde’s assurance  statement is available at the end of this report.  Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions  305-1 Linde’s total Scope 1 emissions in 2024 totaled 16.5 million metric tons CO₂e, which is a decrease of 1 percent from 2023. This is mainly attributed to  decreases in"
"production volumes and efficiency improvements. The primary source of Scope 1 emissions for Linde is the combustion of natural gas at  hydrogen plants, which represented 12.2 million metric tons of Scope 1 emissions in 2024. Another portion is from ASU plants using natural gas for  energy generation, which amounted to 2.3 million metric tons CO₂e. Smaller sources of Scope 1 emissions are other GHGs (e.g., from methane plants or  nitrous oxide plants) or other types of GHG emissions that are"
"converted into CO₂e. The total of such “other GHG emissions” was 0.6 million metric tons  in 2024. Carbon dioxide and other plants caused approximately 0.9 million metric tons. The combustion of diesel and gasoline from transport activities  resulted in approximately 0.6 million metric tons CO₂e in 2024. Scope 1 Emissions Covered by Emissions-Limiting Regulations In 2024, approximately 2.2 million,159,000 metric tons of Scope 1 emissions (approximately 10 percent) were subject to a form of"
"carbon legislation,  over a cap- and-trade scheme, ETS or a form of carbon taxation. Approximately 83 percent of these emissions was covered by the EU ETS and U.K. ETS  schemes. Other regulations include the California CAT and the Singapore carbon tax, for example. For details on the 2024 carbon regulation schemes  applicable to Linde, see Linde’s most recent CDP report, which is updated annually and published to: https://www.linde.com/sustainability/reporting- center. Calculation Methodology"
"Hydrogen plants, which represent the largest source of Linde’s Scope 1 emissions, consume natural gas, both for fuel and feedstock. To determine  Scope 1 emissions, the amount of carbon produced as product is subtracted from the carbon content of the fuel and feedstock. In addition, Linde  calculates Scope 1 emissions from gas losses (during production and filling processes). These are calculated for nitrous oxide manufacturing and  filling facilities, carbon dioxide plants, on-site"
"refrigeration equipment and cylinder filling operations associated with CH₄, SF₆, PFCs, HFCs and NF₃.   HyCO plants/facilities that are owned by Linde are fully reported under Scope 1, regardless of whether they are leased out or independent on who is  running the plant or providing the fuel or feedstock.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 59 To calculate Scope 1 emissions from natural gas, Linde uses the reported natural gas factors from each production plant (depending on the mix  of"
"hydrocarbons). If a specific natural gas factor is not available or known, Linde uses a chemical natural gas to CO₂ conversion factor from the  Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA), from the Government of United Kingdom. For other fuels, Linde uses DEFRA factors to  convert to CO₂ equivalents. Emissions from transport are calculated based on actual kilometers driven for commercial and non-commercial vehicles, multiplied by average  emission factors by vehicle type from the"
"“Estimated U.S. Average Vehicle Emissions Rates per Vehicle by Vehicle Type using Gasoline and Diesel  (Grams per mile)” from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Transportation and Air Quality, personal communication, Apr. 6, 2018. Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions  305-2 Linde’s Scope 2 GHG emissions in 2024 totaled 20.9 million metric tons CO₂e (market-based), which is a 3 percent decrease from 2023. The largest  electricity users are ASUs, which account for approximately"
"90 percent of all electricity used. These emissions were calculated using the market-based approach. Linde utilizes market-based emissions factors where possible. In some cases,  market-based factors may be higher than location-based factors and may result in increases in Scope 2 emissions. Compared to 2023, Scope 2  emissions have decreased, due to in changes in production, as well as increased sourcing of renewable energy and efficiency improvements. Linde also calculated Scope 2 emissions for"
"2024 using the location-based approach, which applies IEA factors or state factors such as eGRID emission  factors in the U.S. Scope 2 emissions calculated with the location-based approach were 21.0 million metric tons CO₂e in 2024. The difference between  market-based and location-based emissions are mostly due to certain plants where customers provide the electricity to Linde (which Linde purchases).  Organizational Boundary Linde reports on all electricity and its resulting Scope 2 emissions"
"purchased by the company. Electricity for sites where Linde does not pay the utility  bill is excluded from its reported electricity number and from the reported Scope 2; however, it is tracked internally for operational purposes and for  Scope 3 reporting.  Calculation Methodology The main methodology for calculating Scope 2 emissions from electricity is the market-based approach, using site-specific emissions factors by plant  according to supplier contracts and utility bills, where available."
"For sites where such market-based factors are not known, Linde uses the most recent  location-based factors from the IEA and the EPA’s eGRID factors for the U.S.  305-1 Scope 1 GHG Emissions 2021 2022 2023 2024 Scope 1 16,321,000 16,813,000 16,582,000 16,470,000 Scope 2 GHG Emissions (Market-based) 2021 2022 2023 2024 Scope 2 23,573,000 21,981,000 21,562,000 20,943,000 EN (7): Scope 1 GHG Emissions  Units: Metric Tons CO₂e EN (8): Scope 2 GHG Emissions  Units: Metric Tons CO₂e  Linde 2024"
"Sustainable Development Report 60 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions  305-3 Linde has screened all 15 categories of Scope 3 emissions.  Fourteen are relevant and are reported.   Criteria used in screening Scope 3 reporting categories were: •     Relevance and transparency: This includes activity over which Linde has a level of operational control but where the GHG emissions are reported by  another party. •    Relevance or existence within Linde’s footprint. •      Significance: Activities"
"that may have a potentially significant GHG consequence. In reporting all categories, estimates are provided, even for less  significant activities. Reported Scope 3 emissions represent slightly less than 40 percent of its total Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions. Scope 3 emissions decreased  by approximately 2 percent in 2024.  Linde continues to assess its Scope 3 inventory and work with stakeholders to identify appropriate levers and  targets for reduction. Category Scope Calculation"
"Methodology 1 - Purchased Goods and  Services  Purchased raw materials including healthcare components  or hardgoods sold in Linde’s shops, construction  components used by Linde Engineering to build customer  plants, and purchased feedstock – natural gas for hydrogen  plants and compressed air for air separation plants.   Emissions for raw materials procured (except for natural gas and compressed air feedstock)  are calculated using a spend based model utilizing input-output tables and data"
"from OECD,  EXIOBASE, the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis and World Bank. Emissions are calculated  based on GWP values from IPCC’s AR 5 (2013) for a 100-year time horizon, including carbon  feedback. To calculate Scope 3 from natural gas feedstock, Linde applies a fuel-based method based  on the GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard,  Category 3 for Scope 3 emissions caused in the extraction, production and transportation of  fuels and energy. Linde"
"uses emission factors from DEFRA. For compressed air, Linde receives information from the supplier about the specific energy  usage to provide that feedstock, and calculates the resulting Scope 3 emissions based  on the energy consumption and the supplier- and/or plant- specific electricity Scope 2  emissions factors. 2 - Capital Goods  Purchased capital goods, such as cylinders, tanks,  healthcare, automotive or plant components capitalized, as  well as production plants operated by Linde."
"Emissions are calculated using a spend-based model utilizing input-output tables and data  from the OECD, EXIOBASE, the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis and World Bank.  Linde continues to expand product-specific GHG emissions data from several suppliers of  cylinder assets. The product carbon footprint includes the suppliers’ own emissions (based  on a product-specific calculation) as well as related upstream emissions. The emissions data  obtained directly from suppliers is integrated into the"
"overall Category 2 value. 3 - Fuel-and Energy-Related  Activities  Upstream emissions from purchased fuel, purchased  electricity and transmission and distribution losses For electricity, Linde applies IEA factors for transmission and distribution (T&D) lifecycle  losses and total upstream Well-to-Tank (WTT) factors to calculate all the Scope 3 GHG  emissions released into the atmosphere from the production, processing and delivery of  energy. The calculation is done on a site level for each"
"site for which Linde purchases the  power. For thermal energy, a global WTT factor for heat and steam from IEA is applied.  For Scope 3 emissions from transport fuels and other fuels consumed (excluding feedstocks),  DEFRA factors for fuel- and energy-related emissions are used per relevant category.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 61 4 - Upstream Transportation  and Distribution (including  Contractor Driving) Linde’s inbound and outbound logistics that are paid by  Linde and are"
"carried out by external carriers Linde uses a distance-based method for calculating Scope 3 emissions from outbound  deliveries of gases to its clients. Contractor miles driven are collected in each country and  business or region and tracked. Linde’s Scope 3 emissions resulting from delivery of products  by third-party carriers were derived using the same methodology as used to calculate GHG  emissions from owned trucks: Emissions from transport are calculated based on actual  kilometers driven"
"for commercial and non-commercial vehicles, multiplied by average  emissions factors by vehicle type from the “Estimated U.S. Average Vehicle Emissions Rates  per Vehicle by Vehicle Type using Gasoline and Diesel (Grams per mile)” from the U.S. EPA,  Office of Transportation and Air Quality, personal communication, Apr. 6, 2018.   Additionally, Linde considers transport services procured, resulting in emissions from the  transport of construction components delivered to Linde Engineering"
"construction sites; this  is conducted mostly over sea and air, as well as gas transport falling under this scope, in  modes other than trucking.  For such non-truck transport, Linde uses a spend-based method.  5 – Waste  Global waste generated and disposed. Starting in 2024, this category is calculated using DEFRA emission factors for such emissions  estimates. 6 – Business Travel  Transportation, hotels and other business travel related  expenses  Emissions are based on the company’s air"
"travel and car rental records, and from data  provided by airlines, rental car agencies and travel service providers.  7 – Employee Commuting  Linde employee commuting This category includes estimated emissions from commuting to work, estimated from  calculations based upon actual distances from office to home, combined with average  mileage data and emissions estimates for commuters obtained from EPA estimates. 8 – Upstream Leased Assets  Electricity emissions from sites, mostly small offices,"
"rented  by Linde, where Linde does not pay for utilities directly,  as well as the estimated emissions from Linde’s leased  passenger cars and light commercial vehicles.   Emissions in this category are based on estimates that include such factors as the physical  area of sites and estimates of emissions per EPA data, with calculated values then prorated  across the global footprint of leased space. 9 -Downstream  Transportation and  Distribution  Linde’s operations contain limited business"
"activities where  product is transported from its location to another end user.  Product lines where such activities exist include welding/ material fabrication applications and healthcare.  Linde has estimated these emissions based upon assumptions of frequency of these types  of activities relative to its more typical product transport patterns.   10/11 - Use of Sold  Products/Processing of  Sold Products Major industrial gases based on sales, excludes Linde  Engineering third-party equipment"
"sales Linde is at the beginning of numerous value chains and provides many intermediate  products with many downstream applications, each of which has a very different GHG  profile. This category includes emissions from products, including flouro gases, CO₂, CH₄  and N₂O, based on sales and assumptions for revenue and volumes, as well as assumptions  on releases.  Due to the nature of gas products, in many cases, the processing of sold  intermediate products by third parties (i.e.,"
"manufacturers) after sale is not distinctly  separate from the use; therefore, the assumptions consider these categories as combined  for both Categories 10 and 11.  305-3  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 62 12 - End-of-Life of Sold  Products  Major industrial gases based on sales, excludes Linde  Engineering third-party equipment sales This category includes estimated emissions from the end of-life disposal of products. Due  to the nature of gas products, in many cases, the use of"
"sold products may also include  the end of life of the product. Therefore, for flouro gases, CO₂, CH₄ and N₂O, estimates are  included in use estimates and are part of Category 11.  Linde does have a small portion of products that may have packaging that is eventually  disposed or that may be disposed themselves. This small remainder is estimated based  upon Linde waste estimations. Although this portion is small and not deemed relevant,  Linde will continue efforts to quantify and estimate.  13"
"- Downstream Leased  Assets  Plants where customers manage energy procurement and  pay for the power  Emissions from leased out or charged out entities are calculated on a plant level, using the  same calculation methodology as for calculating indirect/Scope 2 emissions for other Linde  plants. For plants where the customer pays for the power and the plant-specific emissions  factors are not known, Linde uses country emissions factors from the IEA to calculate  indirect emissions for those"
"sites. 14 – Franchises  n/a n/a 15 - Investments  Equity investments Linde calculates its emissions due to investments on a plant level. All JVs report their  electricity and other fuel consumption into Linde’s environmental reporting system. Linde  then calculates Scope 3 from such investments for all plants in this category, by adding  reported direct emissions from HyCO plants and indirect emissions from ASUs and other  plants, based on reported electricity consumption, multiplied by a"
"country IEA factor. The  emissions are allocated proportionally for JVs, based upon share of ownership, as per the  GHG Protocol.  EN (9) Scope 3 emission calculation methodologies. 305-3  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 63 Value Chain Engagement: Scope 3 and ESG Engagement Third parties in Linde’s value chain are essential to establish baselines for Scope 3 reporting. To help improve the accuracy in order to foster better  management and lead to identification of emissions reduction"
"long-term, Linde collaborates with suppliers and customers to obtain the necessary  information through sound and repeatable methodologies. For example, Linde regularly engages with cylinder and tank suppliers.   In 2024, Linde expanded its supplier engagement program. As part of this initiative, suppliers participated in surveys covering a range of  Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) topics, with a particular focus on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and human rights. These actions"
"underscore the company’s commitment to responsible sourcing and ethical practices across its value chain. This effort enabled engagement on ESG  issues beyond Scope 3 emissions, identifying potential areas for GHG reduction and collaboration, and sharing best practices and methodologies.  Altogether, such efforts are a win-win for sustainability objectives in Linde operations and those of its supply chains, creating mutual benefits for  advancing environmental and social objectives.  Linde will"
"continue these efforts in 2025.  GHG emissions intensity   305-4 Scope 1 and 2 emissions are as reported in the disclosures for GRI 305-1 and GRI 305-2 and include CO₂, CH₄, N₂O, PFCs, HFCs, NF₃ and SF₆. Sales  revenue reported to calculate revenue intensity is reported in Linde’s financial filings. See EN (11). Linde is tracking emissions intensity versus Adjusted EBITDA and has defined a 10-year target for this intensity figure (reduction of 35 percent). See  details on GHG versus Adjusted"
"EBITDA intensity in the Performance Towards Targets section and EN (11).  Scope 3 GHG Emissions 2021 2022 2023 2024 1 - Purchased Goods and Services  4,250,000 3,774,000 3,913,000 3,802,062 2 - Capital Goods  810,000 1,036,000 704,000 991,367 3 - Fuel-and Energy-Related Activities 7,430,000 6,990,000 5,924,000 5,657,000 4 - Upstream Transportation and Distribution (including Contractor Driving) 780,000 726,000 658,000 684,104 5 - Waste 14,000 14,800 11,000 6 - Business Travel 21,000 16,000"
"19,600 18,300 7 -Employee Commuting 105,000 195,000 192,000 8 -Leased Assets 53,900 54,900 9 -Downstream Transportation and Distribution 10,000 9,700 10,300 10/11 - Use of Sold Products/Processing of Sold Products 7,831,000 8,528,000 8,029,000 12 - End-of-Life of Sold Products 7,000 7,500 5,500 13 - Downstream Leased Assets  2,520,000  2,655,000 2,756,000 2,393,000 14 - Franchises n/a n/a n/a n/a 15 - Investments 5,450,000 2,630,000 2,611,000 2,518,000 Total 21,261,000 25,859,000 25,394,500"
"24,366,533 305-3 EN (10): Scope 3 GHG Emissions  Units: Metric Tons CO₂e GHG Emissions Intensity 2021 2022 2023 2024 Total Scope 1+2 (thousands) in Metric Tons CO₂e 39,894 38,794 38,144 37,413 Revenue (millions)in USD $30,793 $33,364 $32,854 $33,005 GHG Intensity (Metric Tons CO₂e/thousand USD Revenue) 1.3 1.2 1.2 1.1 Adjusted EBITDA (millions) in USD $10,179 $10,873 $12,007 $12,819 GHG Intensity (Metric Tons CO₂e/Thousand USD EBITDA) 3.9 3.6 3.2 2.9 EN (11): GHG Intensity by Revenue and"
"Adjusted EBITDA.  Adjusted EBITDA is a Non-GAAP measure, please refer to the “Non-GAAP  Financial Measures” section of the 10-K for a reconciliation to reported GAAP amounts.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 64 Reduction of GHG emissions  305-5 Scopes 1+2 GHG Emissions Reductions Linde’s total sustainable productivity in 2024 yielded savings equivalent to approximately 1 million metric tons CO₂e. It counts projects where  benefits are fully realized as well as projects that were"
"implemented in 2024 and are still accruing benefits. These projects provided GHG savings from  enhancing the energy efficiency of buildings, processes and the transportation fleet. Information on the projects, including investments made and  cost savings, can be found in Linde’s CDP response at: https://www.linde.com/sustainability/reporting-center. Customer GHG Benefits A subset of Linde applications enabled customers and end users to avoid 96 million metric tons of CO₂e in 2024. See page 18."
"Such emissions represent  avoided emissions, which are sometimes referred to as Scope 4. Nitrogen Oxides (NOx), Sulphur Oxides (SOx) and other significant air emissions  305-7 NOx Emissions NOx emissions were 8,012 metric tons in 2024. This is a decrease of 12 percent from 2023 emissions. SOx Emissions SOx emissions were 699 metric tons in 2024, a 12 percent decrease from 2023.  VOC Emissions VOC emissions were 985 metric tons in 2024, remaining flat from 2023.  Calculation Methodology NOx, SOx"
"and VOC emissions from plants are taken from emissions monitoring systems or are estimated based on operations data where emissions  monitoring is not required by local regulations. SOx emissions from transport are estimated based on sulfur concentration in local fuel using local  transport knowledge and legislative limits. NOx and VOC emissions from transport are calculated based on estimated diesel consumption rates and  local regulatory limits. Emissions factors are sourced from the U.S. EPA"
"Inventory of U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sinks: 1990–2005. NOx, SOx and VOC Emissions 2021 2022 2023 2024 NOx Emissions 12,236 9,569 9,079 8,012 SOx Emissions 714 779 795 699 VOC Emissions 948 931 985 985 EN (12): NOx, SOx and VOC Emissions  Units: Metric Tons Waste Management  306-1, 306-2, 306-3, 306-4, 306-5 Linde manages and reports waste metrics as part of environmental management. The company implements a range of operational initiatives and  programs with the aim of reducing waste"
"generation and diverting waste from landfills. These efforts include developing waste minimization plans,  participating in internal and external assessments, and the Zero Waste program, which provides training to participating sites on relevant strategies.  Hazardous Waste Linde uses local country regulations to define and report hazardous waste.  Linde tracks the amount of hazardous waste recycled but does not track the portion of this that is sold. Linde estimates that about half of recycled"
"hazardous waste is marketable. In 2024, Linde recycled 7,500 metric tons of hazardous waste, including 3,750 metric tons of waste estimated as  marketable and 3,750 metric tons of waste estimated as non-marketable. Linde reports the half that is not marketable in the table below as part of  “hazardous waste generated.”  In 2024, total hazardous waste generated (this does not include hazardous waste that is sold for recycling, as this is considered a product) was 23,830  metric tons, which is a"
"14 percent decrease from 2023.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 65 Non-Hazardous Waste Total non-hazardous waste disposed in 2024 was 18,300 metric tons, which is an 8 percent decrease from 2023.   Zero Waste Program Linde is committed to reducing hazardous and non-hazardous waste. Linde’s Zero Waste program is an effort that has existed for more than a decade.  Sites work to divert at least 90 percent of the normal waste from going to landfill. The program encourages a practice,"
"prioritizing reduction of waste  generation at the source. Therefore, in addition to recycling and other reclamation efforts, many sites have incorporated initiatives that not only  reduce waste but also extend conservation principles in the community and help foster economic opportunity. In 2024, 451 facilities had achieved  Zero Waste, and more than 200 million pounds of waste was diverted from landfills.  In 2024, Linde announced a new target: 100 percent participation in the Zero Waste"
"program by 2035. The scope is all Linde operations subject to  annual eKPI reporting. In 2024, approximately 48 percent of sites participated in the Zero Waste program. See the Performance Against Targets section for more information.  Significant Spills There were no significant spills in 2024. Transport of Hazardous Waste Linde is not aware of the transport, import or export of hazardous waste across international borders in 2024. New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria"
"308-1 Suppliers that present environmental risk are screened using environmental criteria. Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken  308-2 Linde values its supplier relationships and works to develop supplier capacity. Linde uses a risk-based approach to supplier management. Those  suppliers at risk of negative environmental impacts are principally suppliers of chemicals, or process and specialty gas suppliers, and all are subject to  additional pre-qualification"
"requirements. These qualifications are revisited in periodic audits and in any contract re-qualification.  Those that show an unwillingness or inability to conform to Linde requirements are subject to disciplinary action up to and including contract  termination. Hazardous Waste 2021 2022 2023 2024 Hazardous waste disposed 17,500 18,510 23,640 20,090 Hazardous waste recycled that is not estimated as  marketable 4,000 4,050 4,080 3,740 Total hazardous waste generated 21,500 22,560 27,720  23,830"
"Hazardous waste recycled that is                                    sold/ marketable; not included above 4,000 4,050 4,080 3,740 Non-Hazardous Waste 2021 2022 2023 2024 Non-hazardous waste disposed 15,939 21,200 19,900 18,300 Non-hazardous waste used/recycled/sold 31,830 33,900 30,400 32,700 Total non-hazardous waste generated 47,769 55,000 50,300 51,000  EN (13): Hazardous Waste Units: Metric Tons EN (14): Non-Hazardous Waste Units: Metric Tons 306-1, 306-2, 306-3, 306-4, 306-5  Linde 2024"
"Sustainable Development Report 66 Social Topics  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 67 Investing in Future Leaders Through Mentorship and Education  Linde is shaping tomorrow’s workforce through mentorship programs and academic partnerships that foster career growth and professional development.  This commitment is reflected in initiatives like the White Martins  InspirAR mentoring program in Brazil. Now in its fifth edition, InspirAR pairs experienced  mentors with individuals seeking"
"career guidance, offering coaching in areas such as interview preparation, career planning, and networking. Participants  engage in activities designed to build confidence and sharpen skills, helping connect promising talent to meaningful opportunities.  In the United States, Linde supports young women through its partnership with the Young Women’s Leadership Academy (YWLA), a collaboration between  the Aldine Independent School District and the Young Women’s Preparatory Network. YWLA focuses on"
"college prep, leadership, and STEM education for  grades 6-12, including the high school class of 2027 adopted by Linde. Employee volunteers deliver workshops, and provide tutoring,  inspiring the next  generation of leaders. Additionally, Linde hosts externships at its Woodlands, Texas facility for engineering students from the University of Houston and Prairie View A&M  University. An externship is a short-term, immersive opportunity that allows participants to shadow professionals, observe"
"workplace environments, and  gain insights into potential career paths. These programs offer students exposure through campus tours, one-on-one conversations, and opportunities  to shadow Linde professionals in their fields of interest. Participants have praised the externships for enhancing networking opportunities and sparking  interest in Linde’s internships and career paths. Building upon this success, Linde plans to expand its collaboration with Prairie View A&M University.  Through"
"programs like InspirAR, YWLA, and externships, Linde empowers students and professionals to achieve their full potential while ensuring a  strong, skilled workforce for the future.  Living Our Core Value of Inclusion With operations across more than 80 countries, inclusion is a key value to developing and growing effective teams.  Colleagues worldwide take immense  pride in Linde’s collective commitment to fostering an inclusive workplace. As a result, efforts to grow the company’s culture of"
"Inclusion have begun to  yield tangible benefits. For example, new Inclusion Principles were introduced as part of Linde’s global Inclusion Week 2024. These principles “provide clear guidelines on how  Inclusion should be strongly connected to the Linde culture.” 2024 was also the year Linde launched its Intentional Inclusive Leadership Program, with  workshops in Europe and Asia designed to provide line managers with the tools and skills they need to foster a diverse and inclusive workplace"
"culture. Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) continued to flourish and mature at Linde. 24 ERG chapters worldwide offered all employees opportunities to hear from  successful business leaders, proven motivational speakers and career coaches.  Throughout 2024, Linde was recognized both globally and locally for a steadfast commitment to inclusion. Linde received multiple honors from Forbes,  was included in Fair360’s Top 50 list, and was recognized for the first time by Time magazine. Regionally,"
"Linde also received local accolades for Inclusion  efforts in Austria, China and New Zealand.  Last but far from least, over 40,500 colleagues shared their thoughts as part Linde’s annual Global Pulse Survey in October 2024. Respondents gave Linde  high marks for efforts around Inclusion, with a 3-point improvement in responses to questions on this topic year-over-year. In the end, 77% agreed that  “all employees are treated fairly and respectfully regardless of differences” --a gratifying"
"endorsement of Linde’s work to foster an environment where all  individuals are valued, respected and empowered to achieve their full potential.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 68 Social management approach for material topics 3-3, 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-4, 403-5, 403-6, 403-7 The social dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s impacts on people and social systems — employees, contractors, suppliers,  customers, other business partners and local communities — and"
"discloses how the risks that may arise from interactions with other social institutions  are managed and mediated. Material Topics 3-2 Material Topics for reporting include: Employment, Labor/Management Relations, Occupational Health and Safety, Training and Education, Diversity  and Equal Opportunity, Non-discrimination, Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining, Child Labor, Forced or Compulsory Labor, Security  Practices, Rights of Indigenous Peoples, Local Communities, Supplier Social"
"Assessment, Public Policy, Customer Health and Safety, Marketing and  Labeling, and Customer Privacy. Organizational Responsibility, Accountability and Incentives Linde’s strong worldwide social policies and procedures cover areas such as compliance and integrity, Human Resources (HR), inclusion, Safety, Health,  Environment and Quality (SHEQ), community engagement and the Global Giving Program. These are managed as part of daily operations. In many  cases, suppliers are expected to adhere to"
"equivalent standards. Linde’s CEO and the Board of Directors are accountable for social issues impacting the company. Linde’s full Board of Directors is responsible  for reviewing safety and environmental risk at each Board meeting. The Human Capital Committee assists the Board in its oversight of Linde’s  compensation and incentive policies and programs, and management development and succession, particularly in regard to reviewing executive  compensation for Linde’s executive officers. The"
"Committee also periodically reviews the company’s inclusion policies and objectives, and the  programs to achieve those objectives. Charitable contributions are primarily made through the Global Giving Program. Employee community  engagement in all businesses and functions is promoted by the Sustainability department. Responsibility for performance lies with the businesses. Several executives are responsible for social topics: •    The EVP and CHRO is responsible for talent sourcing, management"
"and retention, and inclusion and reports to the CEO. The global leader of Talent,  Inclusion and Engagement is the senior functional lead in this area and reports to the EVP and CHRO. •       The EVP and Chief Legal Officer is responsible for ethics, integrity and compliance and reports to the CEO. The CCO reports to the EVP and Chief  Legal Officer. She is the senior functional lead in this area. •      The EVP and CHRO is responsible for SHEQ and reports to the CEO. The vice president of SHEQ"
"is the senior functional lead in this area. •       The SVP and Chief Accounting Officer reports to the CFO and oversees sustainable development. The vice president, Sustainability, is the senior  functional lead in this area and also oversees Linde community engagement program. •   The SVP of Communications, AI and Corporate Procurement is responsible for the operation of the Global Giving Program. Procurement leadership  exists within each business segment and region, and the vice presidents"
"serve as the senior functional leads in this area. Working with other  leaders, they coordinate activity to ensure adherence to Linde’s Supplier Code of Conduct (SCOC), sustainability and human rights commitments,  among others.   Safety, inclusion and community are Linde values, and, therefore, are non-negotiable. Linde’s executive annual variable compensation is impacted by  performance in non-financial areas considered to be Strategic Business Objectives. These include achieving best-in-class"
"performance in several areas,  including safety and talent management. Policies, Commitments, Goals and Targets  Corporate policies are posted on the company website at http://www.linde.com. Linde’s CBI, corporate HSE Policy, Human Rights Policy, SCOC and  other corporate and country-level policies make clear the company’s commitment to management processes for addressing relevant areas of potential  concern with regard to human and labor rights. These include: •         Safety and health"
"protection; a safe work environment •         Avoiding harm to people, the environment and the communities in which we operate •      The prevention of discrimination and harassment of employees •  Equal opportunity and equal treatment, including remuneration •         Merit-based decisions on recruitment, hiring, promotion and compensation •      Compliance with regulations, including regulations addressing overtime and maximum working hours and notice periods for organizational changes •"
"Paying a living wage •  Paid annual leave •     The right to privacy •  Freedom of association and freedom of peaceful assembly, including freedom to choose whether to engage in collective bargaining and  employees’ participation in works agreements in various countries  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 69 Specifically, the Linde CBI makes clear Linde’s commitment to human and labor rights. Linde recognizes every person’s innate humanity and treats  everyone with dignity and respect. In"
"supporting the protection and promotion of human rights worldwide, Linde abides by the principles of the  International Bill of Human Rights enacted by the United Nations and does not condone or engage in discrimination; harassment; violations of privacy;  slavery or servitude; restrictions on free assembly or unfair employment practices. Linde commits to adhering to these human rights principles and  expects similar standards to be observed by all with whom it conducts business.  Labor"
"practices are generally managed by the businesses at a regional level to ensure compliance with local laws and regulations.  Processes and  programs for effective management include, for example, monitoring of working hours including management of overtime and ensuring appropriate  overtime compensation, regular engagement with local works councils, and the provision of benefits such as medical care, parental benefits and  payment for annual leave.  Certain metrics, such as living wage and equal"
"remuneration based upon available and regional benchmarks, are also  reviewed annually at a consolidated Linde level. As described in Materiality, Priorities and Targets, on page 15, Linde’s social PFs and related include Safety, Health and Environment, Integrity and  Compliance, and People and Community, and they have related KPIs and targets; see the Performance Towards Targets section. This section reports  against the relevant GRI Standards for these PFs, in addition to GRI disclosures that"
"are not PFs but that may be of interest to various external  stakeholders. Safety Management, Programming and Training 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-4, 403-5, 403-6, 403-7 Topics of safety, including occupational health, are led by SHEQ. The function is also responsible for safety management, including hazard  identification, risk assessment and incident investigation, and management reviews are in place. SHEQ leads the identification and mitigation of  potential health and safety impacts. SHEQ also"
"leads consultations and communications with employees on health and safety programs and initiatives. Safety training is conducted for  all employees and all contractors, as defined in the SHEQ Management System and Standard Operating Procedures. See the disclosure for GRI 404- 1. Safety performance is reviewed by management and the Board and reported. Benefits, including management of medical care coverage and  associated communications, are managed by the HR function. See also the disclosures"
"for 401-2, 402-1, 403-9, 404-1 and 416-1. Mechanisms for Grievance and Recourse 2-25 Policies are actively communicated to employees around the world to outline Linde’s expectations of conduct wherever it does business. It takes  these standards very seriously, and non-compliance can result in severe disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment. Several  channels are provided to encourage employees to report suspected complaints and concerns, or to anonymously report"
"violations, including the  Integrity Hotline. The company also encourages customers, vendors or other observers to use the hotline to submit complaints or allegations about  these or other matters.  Programs, Projects, Initiatives These are described in the following Social disclosures. New employee hires and employee turnover  401-1, 2-7, 2-8 Total Employment The number of employees as of December 31, 2024, was 65,289, reflecting a decrease of 1,034 employees from December 31, 2023. See SOC"
"(1). The company’s workforce includes professional/managerial-level employees, technical employees (including drivers), technologists and  administrative staff. Many of the company’s truck drivers and administrative assistants in the U.S. are non-exempt employees. The company has  implemented a centralized tracking system for workforce statistics and continues to phase in this system globally. U.S. employees who work more than a pre-defined number of hours per week are entitled to benefits. The"
"distribution of employees by region is  provided in SOC (2). The company’s workforce does not include a substantial portion of work performed by self-employed workers or by individuals other than employees.  Regional HR is responsible for managing each respective region, and the company consolidates key metrics at the global level. This indicator is  partially reported. The company does not typically employ seasonal labor. 2-7 Turnover Linde’s global voluntary turnover rate, including"
"retirements, was 5.5 percent.  Globally, Linde does not provide additional details about the number and rate of new hires, as it considers this information to be confidential. 3-2  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 70 Employee Engagement Linde annually conducts an employee engagement survey. The survey includes the following aspects: safety, integrity and accountability; working  relationships with managers; inclusion; and traditional engagement aspects, including satisfaction,"
"collaboration and motivation. Additional pulse  surveys on topics such as stress may be conducted through the year. Human Capital Return on Investment Human capital return on investment is a measure of a company’s profitability in relation to its total employee costs and serves as a global measure of  return on human capital programs.  Number of Employees 2021 2022 2023 2024 Total 72,327 65,010 66,323 65,289 SOC (1): Number of Employees SOC (3): Human Capital Return on Investment (a)"
"Adjusted operating costs calculated as Revenues less Adjusted operating profit (b)      Adjusted operating profit is a Non-GAAP measure, please refer to the “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” section of the 10-K for a reconciliation to reported GAAP amounts. (c)       Employee related costs represents all costs directly related to employees including salaries and benefits including training and development programs and other benefit and pension costs.   (d)        Calculated as Revenue - (Adjusted"
"operating costs – Employee related costs)/Employee related costs SOC (2): Employees by Region    Human Capital Return on Investment (HC ROI) (in millions) 2021 2022 2023 2024 Revenue $30,793 $33,364 $32,854 $33,005 Adjusted operating costs (a) $23,617 $25,460 $23,784 $23,285 Adjusted operating profit (b) $7,176 $7,904 $9,070 $9,720 Employee related costs (c) $5,946 $5,680 $5,714 $5,850 Employees 72,327 65,010 66,323 65,289 HC ROI (d) 2.21 2.39 2.59 2.66 401-1, 2-7, 2-8  Linde 2024 Sustainable"
"Development Report 71 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees  401-2   The company offers a high-performance culture, values ambitious and creative employees, and incentivizes and rewards good performance.  Employees can expect to receive a competitive pay package that recognizes the experience, skills and abilities they bring to the company. Training and development are offered, as well as a full range of benefit programs ranging from"
"wellness to work-life balance. Benefits are available to  all full-time employees—in the U.S., those working more than 20 hours per week—and vary according to business unit. Paid vacations and holidays,  life and accident insurance, healthcare, disability/invalidity coverage, parental leave (maternity/paternity leave, including for adoption) and other  family benefits including childcare and lactation facilities, flextime, education reimbursement, wellness allowances and a range of personal and"
"family insurance policies, options for professional services (legal, counseling, medical care, childcare, eldercare), purchasing subsidies (personal office  equipment and supplies, gym membership/equipment) and retirement provisions are some of the types of benefits provided to employees of the  organization. Many specific program descriptions here apply to U.S. programs, but equivalent programs may be offered in each country and referenced  on that country’s careers website. These benefits are"
"generally not provided to temporary or part-time employees by major operations. 403-3 •         Flexible Work: The company understands that everyone has commitments outside of work. Recognizing this, the company has global policies that  provide work arrangements that help employees meet enduring or shorter-term personal needs through formal and informal means. For example,  in the U.S., Linde offers paid personal days and a Flexible Work Policy that allows flexible scheduling. •    Work/Life:"
"The company offers a confidential resource and referral service for practical advice and referrals related to parenting and childcare,  eldercare, financial and college planning, retirement planning, survivor support programs and more. Facilities offer accommodations to employees.  Employee assistance programs are offered in many locations, including in the U.S. and in the U.K. •       Health and Wellness: A range of activities are offered to all employees to support employee health and"
"wellness. They include seminars on such  diverse topics as financial health/retirement; stress management information and stress management/reduction techniques and training; sleep  management; managing work-life issues such as a family member with Alzheimer’s disease; community engagement; office picnics/gatherings;  and “bring your child to work day.” Some activities are managed by an Employee Activity Council or similar and vary by site. For those participating  in the company medical plan in"
"the U.S., benefits include nutritional/health support and a 24-hour nursing consultation. Some sites also have  on-site fitness facilities and programs. In the U.K. for example, cycle to work programs are also offered. Some locations have biking clubs, and  employees join together for charitable events in addition to camaraderie. Some sites have onsite health or wellness personnel for occupational  health. 403-3, 403-6 •    Volunteerism: Linde is committed to supporting the communities around"
"the world where its employees live and work. Employees are encouraged  to participate in volunteerism and community engagement activities. Its Global Giving Program provides substantial matches for a range of  employee giving. Community engagement is part of the company culture, and employees at all levels of the company contribute their time and  skills to help build resilient communities. Corporate policies allow employees to volunteer during work hours with the support of their managers."
"Examples of options for employees include employee-driven projects; giving campaigns, such as the annual United Way campaign held at various  locations; and matching gift programs. Matching gifts programs are available to employees globally.  In the U.S., for example, the program provides  a 100-percent match for all eligible donations, up to $15,000.  Parental leave  401-3 Subject to a country’s or region’s laws, Linde employees of either gender are entitled to parental leave or benefit"
"entitlement that may be used for  parental leave purposes. Additional employee benefits and entitlements in the U.S. fall under the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) and Short-Term Disability (STD). To  be eligible for FMLA leave benefits of 12 weeks in a year, an employee must meet some eligibility requirements, for example, time worked for the  company (12 months). The FMLA covers birth, adoption or foster care of an employee’s child within 12 months after the birth or placement of the"
"child (“Bonding Leave”); care for an immediate family member (spouse, child or parent) with a serious health condition (“Family Care Leave”); and an  employee’s inability to work because of a serious health condition (“Serious Health Condition Leave”). Other countries have equivalent programs.  In the U.S., full-time employees with one year or more of service, who are parents of newly birthed or adopted children, are eligible for parental leave,  which allows parents of newly birthed or adopted"
"children up to 10 weeks of leave. This includes four weeks of paid leave in addition to any disability  benefits that may be available. In addition, subject to management discretion, all new parents may request flexibility or accommodations in the 6  months after birth or adoption.   At this time, the company does not report on the number of employees who took parental leave or their return to work retention rates.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 72 Minimum notice periods regarding"
"operational changes  402-1, 403-4, 2-30 Linde considers relations with its employees to be good.  Linde’s CBI and Human Rights policy makes clear the company’s commitment and management processes to address relevant areas of human rights  concern, including freedom of association, freedom of peaceful assembly and the freedom to choose whether to engage in collective bargaining or to  participate in works agreements in various countries. Approximately one third of Linde employees worldwide belong"
"to an independent trade union,  are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are members of a works council.  The company has collective bargaining agreements with unions at numerous locations throughout the world, which expire at various dates. Most of  the company’s labor agreements have language that defines severance arrangements. In countries or companies where employees have third-party  representation via a works council or collective bargaining, the company respects these"
"relationships and works with these third parties in a mutually  respectful manner. In the case of works councils, the company meets any predetermined notice periods mutually agreed to by the parties. 2-30 As a matter of business practice, the company keeps employees well informed of operational changes through normal internal communication  channels, most notably its corporate intranet, through which global/corporate information and BU information (in home country language) is provided  directly"
"to employees. Business leaders also communicate through regular channels that include periodic business teleconferences, newsletters and  issue communications. The company makes every effort to be proactive and to provide reasonable notice to all employees if a significant change occurs, and it has a good  record of employee relations in countries where it does business. Work-related Injuries   403-9, 403-6 KPIs for Linde’s safety performance include days away from work (lost workday case rate),"
"and the tracking of illnesses and injuries, including  fatalities and occupational diseases. These and other key safety figures are reported monthly to the Executive Leadership Team. In addition, Linde’s  full Board of Directors is responsible for reviewing safety and environmental risk at each Board meeting. The Board has established a strategic business objective to maintain best-in-class performance in safety. Incidents and near misses are closely  monitored, reported and investigated."
"Evaluations of these events are performed, and the lessons learned are communicated in many ways including  in safety training and safety alerts for the relevant work groups. The benefit of these continuous efforts is that Linde’s employee and contractor safety  performance continues to be better than general industry benchmarks and among the best within the industrial gases and chemical industry. To promote continuous improvement and recognize efforts contributing to a safe working environment,"
"Linde recognizes its businesses through safety  awards for reduction in recordable injuries, lost workday cases and/or product vehicle accidents. In addition, Linde annually holds a global “Safety  Commitment Week,” which provides information about different safety topics and various workshops around safety. External contractors are also  actively involved in safety activities and programs where appropriate. 403-6 Linde also promotes a healthy work environment by providing employees with"
"information on ergonomics and working environment considerations.  Linde controls workplace environmental factors, including noise, lighting, indoor air quality, humidity and temperature. 403-6 Linde reports consolidated safety rates below, see tables SOC (4) and SOC (6). Contractor lost workday case rates are reported for construction  contractors. See SOC (5). For ease to stakeholders, the company also reports the lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) for employees and contractors  and rates"
"for Tier 1 process safety events in units of per million work hours. See SOC (7a), SOC (7b), and SOC (7c). 403-9 Vehicle safety rates are reported for commercial vehicles. See SOC (8).  See also Performance Towards Targets section.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 73 Construction Contractor Lost Workday Case Rate 2021 2022 2023 2024 Lost Workday Case Rate 0.047 0.029 0.104 0.027  Tier 1 Process Safety Event Rate 2021 2022 2023 2024 Tier 1 Process Safety Event Rate 0.039 0.026 0.026"
"0.019 Employee LTIFR per Million Work Hours 2021 2022 2023 2024 LTIFR Employees 1.25 1.20 0.395 0.444  Construction Contractor LTIFR per Million Work Hours 2021 2022 2023 2024 LTIFR Contractors 0.24 0.146 0.521 0.133  Tier 1 Process Safety Events per Million Work Hours 2021 2022 2023 2024 Tier 1 Process Safety Event Rate 0.195 0.132 0.130 0.094  Global Safety Performance Worldwide Worldwide Worldwide Worldwide Americas Asia Pacific Europe  Middle East     and Africa  Other Areas 2021 2022 2023"
"2024 2024 2024 2024 2024 Rates of occupational diseases (Total: 0 worldwide)   0.004 0.001 0.001 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 Lost Workday Case Rate overall                     (Total: 63 worldwide)   0.249 0.240 0.078 0.089 0.063 0.125 0.113 0.087 Rates of injury (Total: 282 worldwide)   0.630 0.587 0.422 0.397 0.403 0.426 0.247 0.477 Rates of injury and illness      (Total: 282 worldwide)   0.634 0.588 0.424 0.397 0.403 0.426 0.247 0.477 Global work-related fatalities,  Employees 2 0 0 1 1 0"
"0 0 Global work-related fatalities,  Contractors 2 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 SOC (4): Global Safety Performance by Region Units: Rate per 100 employees, number of fatalities  SOC (5): Construction Contractor Lost Workday Case Rate Units: Rate per 100 contractors SOC (6): Tier 1 Process Safety Event Rate Units: Rate per 100 employees SOC (7a): Employee LTIFR per Million Work Hours Units: Rate per 1 million work hours SOC (7b): Construction Contractor LTIFR per Million Work Hours  Units: Rate per 1 million"
"work hours SOC (7c): Tier 1 Process Safety Event Rate per Million Work Hours Units: Rate per 1 million work hours 403-9  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 74 3.00 2.50 2.00 1.50 1.00 0.50 0 Total Accidents High Severity 2021 Linde Contract Linde Contract Linde Contract Linde Contract 2022 2023 0.05 2024 2.54 2.29 0.05 2.33 0.04  2.42 0.03  2.07 0.05 2.14 0.06 2.32 0.05 1.97 0.07 Average hours of training per year per employee  404-1   Business Benefits from Training and Education   Like"
"many companies, Linde must attract, hire and retain qualified personnel to develop, market or sell its products and successfully manage its  business. Linde is dependent upon its highly skilled, experienced and efficient workforce to be successful. Much of Linde’s competitive advantage  is based on the expertise and experience of its key personnel in marketing, technology, manufacturing, distribution infrastructure, systems and  products. The inability to attract and hire qualified individuals,"
"or the loss of key employees in very skilled areas, could have a negative effect on the  company’s financial results. Investments in employee training and development bring value, but this is often hard to measure, or of indirect business  benefit. The challenge in this area is to create training interventions that bring direct learning and measurable business benefits. Development training is an important investment. Such training brings value in many ways to employees and to the company. The"
"Talent Development  team conducted needs assessments to ensure that potential programs met the needs of the company. One key goal was to increase the engagement  and efficiency of the company’s people managers. Some key e-learning initiatives resulted, and these programs are now increasingly employing  technology in training and development. E-learning and virtual platforms are the dominant modes of training, with widespread utilization in such  areas as compliance, safety and inclusion."
"Examples below depict typical programs offered, although all may not have been offered in 2024. Many e-learning programs exist throughout the globe, with both formal training events and opportunities for webinars: For example, our global  sponsorship  program  provides a hybrid training opportunity comprised of webinars, self-paced learning, coaching and self-assessment. Employee Learning and Development The careers and career paths of Linde employees are strategically managed. Employees and"
"management use a range of competence-based and goal- setting tools. Employees store and maintain resumes, experience, completed training, certifications achieved, performance appraisals and career  goals and aspirations. Career paths are planned in conversations with their managers against competency ladders. These plans are used for talent  development, succession planning and internal recruitment. Linde has invested in Elevate My Learning, a learning management system (LMS) platform that"
"facilitates global reporting of formal training. The data  reported below is a subset of all the company-sponsored formal training provided. The LMS system enables all businesses and functions to house,  track and offer training and training-related information on a single enterprise platform. Linde continues to explore new ways to expand the use of the  system. Linde reports an average of 20 hours of development training per employee globally; however, these hours vary depending on training"
"needs and  budgets. In 2024, the company continued to use technology to offer significant training with increased efficiency of time and cost. The company  continued the use of e-learning for business integrity and other training. When added to standard compliance training and safety training, employees  received an average of 80 hours of training in 2024. See SOC (9). This training consists of: 1.   Ethics and compliance training: This is mandatory at all levels. The average employee receives 2"
"hours of training each year. 2.        Employee development training: Linde employees received an average of 20 hours of formal training in 2024. 3.   Professional skills training: Employees in specific businesses and functions receive additional training as needed or requested.  4.    Management and development training: The company also provided additional management and development training as needed or requested.  SOC (8): Worldwide Product Vehicle Safety: Linde Drivers and Contract Drivers"
"Units: Rate per million km 403-9  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 75 Safety Training 403-5 Linde is committed to providing its employees with a safe operating environment by investing in state-of-the-art technology and driving a culture in  which safety is a core value. Accordingly, the company rigorously focuses on training to prevent work-related incidents and/or control occupational  health hazards for employees, their families, contractors, and, in many cases, for community"
"members. Its industry-leading safety performance is the  result of a program of continuous training and communication using a wide range of media. In 2024, Linde invested more than 6 million hours in safety  training for its employees and contractors. On average, Linde employees at facilities and offices received approximately 58 hours of formal safety  training in 2024. (See 204-1 for information on safety training for contractors.) 403-5 Sites in all regions and BUs have periodic safety"
"meetings and an annual Safety Commitment Program, which is held at every facility globally and  represents Linde’s commitment to safety. There are periodic “stand-down” meetings when operations are stopped for a safety program, continuous  short “toolbox” reviews, and additional annual training for specific job functions and for compliance purposes. In addition, Linde conducts general  safety training and communication through a range of global, regional and site-based channels on a needs basis,"
"for example, in relation to safety  changes in different seasons, a worldwide health threat or to communicate learnings after a safety incident. Safety training is conducted for all  employees, in all functions. Inclusion At Linde, we believe that inclusion is essential to effective operations, driving innovation, achieving sustainable growth, and delivering long-term  value for our employees, customers, investors, and the global communities we serve. Our commitment to building a culture of"
"inclusion is fully  embedded in our daily operations and supported by comprehensive training initiatives. These programs are designed to ensure that employees-at  every level, from new hires to senior leaders, are equipped with the tools, knowledge, and mindset necessary to create a dynamic workplace where  diverse perspectives are valued, collaboration is prioritized, and all voices are heard. Our leadership development programs focus on empowering managers and executives with strategies to"
"build cohesive teams and drive cultural  progress. Since 2015, these initiatives have helped strengthen a collaborative work environment and build an adaptable, forward-thinking  organization prepared to thrive in an increasingly diverse and interconnected world. Our inclusive leadership courses are tailored for managers and  executives, equipping them with strategies for cultivating inclusive teams and driving meaningful cultural change. These programs collectively enable  us to build an"
"adaptable, forward-thinking organization prepared to thrive in an increasingly diverse and interconnected world. Complementing our training programs, Linde’s executive-sponsored Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), play a critical role in cultivating our inclusive  culture by fostering community, connection, and advocacy across our global workforce. Open to all employees, these nine global ERG networks, are  employee-led groups designed to bring together individuals with shared identities and"
"interests, including women, LGBTQ+ employees, veterans,  individuals with disabilities, and racially, culturally, and multi-generationally diverse employees. By welcoming participation from all, these ERGs  serve as vital platforms for peer support and collaboration, strengthening employee engagement and driving opportunities for dialogue across  the organization. In addition, ERGs actively partner with leadership to provide valuable insights, champion awareness campaigns, and spearhead"
"initiatives that further enhance our inclusive workplace culture. A flagship initiative in our commitment to inclusion is Global Inclusion Week, an annual event that unifies our workforce to celebrate the  transformative impact of inclusion. This week-long series of activities is designed to deepen shared understanding and inspire all employees to  advance our core value of inclusion. Employees across the globe are invited to participate in immersive workshops, thought-provoking panel"
"discussions, cultural exhibitions and storytelling sessions that highlight the unique lived experiences of our teams. Global Inclusion Week serves  not only as a celebration of progress, but also a call to action, mobilizing every employee to help create a culture where everyone feels valued,  empowered, and positioned for success. Through this initiative and our year-round inclusion efforts, Linde continues to reaffirm a relentless  commitment to building an inclusive workforce that reflects"
"the world in which we serve. Leadership and Skills Development Classroom training is only part of the education that employees receive. Mentoring, networking, skills training and work experience are all designed  to enhance employee career opportunities. Some employees receive formal mentoring, and there are various networks for employees to join based  on interest (e.g., Toastmasters clubs or “Success Network” events). Eligible employees receive tuition reimbursement for approved studies,"
"including  university degrees. Following are highlights of additional initiatives that promote the career development of employees: •        Widespread e-learning opportunities to increase technical and managerial skills and for personal development. •         Online coaching and tools for developing competencies used in annual performance evaluations, and other valued skills. •        An enterprise-wide LMS system enables all businesses and functions to house, track and offer training and"
"training-related information on a single  enterprise platform.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 76 404-1 Business Programs The company’s commercial and corporate programs offer challenging projects that help prepare dynamic sales and corporate talent within the business.  Commercial Development Programs One longstanding development program is Lincare’s Sales Representative Training Program. This 10-day program provides sales team members with  customer relationship management tools,"
"communication skills and clinical knowledge. The training connects Lincare’s high standards of unity and  accountability to create a focused, energetic sales force and fosters a compliance and growth mindset for both the business and the individual. One hundred percent of Lincare Sales Representatives participate in the training, which occurs in two phases: Level 1 occurs within the first 60 days of  employment, and Level 2 is offered within approximately the first year after hire based upon the"
"employee’s progress towards performance goals. Outcomes benefit the company, employees and customers. The program has resulted in reduced turnover by up to 50 percent, as well as increased  compliance culture,  employee engagement and focus on  performance. Other examples include:  •   TM 101 Training is offered in person once a quarter to new sales employees in Linde Gas & Equipment (LG&E) to prepare them to use the systems and  tools needed to be successful in the industry. Focus areas include"
"customer retention, written and spoken communication, problem solving and time  management.  •    Leadership and Technical Orientation Program (LTOP) and Hydrogen Technical Orientation Program (HyTOP): LTOP and HyTOP are both programs  designed to introduce employees to the operations and commercial aspects of the America’s gases business in the U.S., such as plant startups or  shutdowns, maintenance, project planning and execution, project management, sales and planning.   Corporate Development"
"Programs Examples include: •         Linde Leadership Training: A supervisory skills program offered in all geographies. To date, more than 2,600 managers have benefitted from this  training, helping them to expand their managerial skills. This program allows the company to standardize managerial practices around the world. •      Advanced Leadership Program (ALP): Linde’s newest leadership program is designed to develop high-potential talent, typically at senior manager and  director levels of"
"the organization. In 2024, the program trained more than 30 high potential Linde Leaders in EMEA.  •     Executive Leadership Program (XLP): This program helps prepare future executives to develop the business management and leadership skills  required to achieve both short- and long-term business objectives. Participants work to understand their leadership strengths and weaknesses and to  develop the potential of their own direct reports. Based upon Linde’s Winning Together strategy, this"
"program is conducted in collaboration with Duke  University Continuing Education.  In 2024, the company continued Leadership Pathways.  Introduced in 2022, this is a collection of curated pathways on key leadership topics that support  learning and development along the career journey. The program is targeted to develop the skills necessary for first-level managers, mid-level managers  and leaders of leaders. The series is open to all employees and is easily accessible.  Digitalization:"
"Developing Skills for the Future Linde also makes investments in employees so that they are prepared for the increasingly fast-moving and data-intensive world and better grasp  opportunities from digitalization and artificial intelligence (AI). Over the last 7 years, Linde has established a digital learning platform that covers a strong  digital network on AI and digital transformative program for solution and fundamental knowledge building. The platform is open to all employees and  covers a"
"range of training levels. This level approach, ranging from “Digital Enthusiasts” (Understanding), “Digital Explorer” (Applying), “Digital Creator  (Teaching and Coaching)” to “Digital Sponsors” (Leading), is the cornerstone for an overarching digital enablement strategy. Key programs involve a  1–3-month session, which includes coaching, immediately followed by opportunities to put the concepts into practice. The program includes digital boot  camps, introduction to AGILE frameworks and no-"
"code/low-code technologies, as well as a basic understanding of AI technologies and opportunities.  The team’s focus is on solving real business challenges utilizing new methodologies, tools and digital technologies. They also explore alternative and  more efficient modes of technology platforms. A key goal of the sessions is to simplify processes and to build digital solutions, products and tools that  move decision-making and enable employees to find digital solutions to daily business"
"challenges. This program continued in 2024, and to date, more  than 15,000 employees from all areas of the business have participated and increased their digital capabilities. Projects implemented have resulted in  productivity improvements and new ways to solve business challenges. Linde’s digital exchange and digital practitioner platform, “dX,” has become the  umbrella for digital upskilling, best practice exchanges and networking for Linde’s digital practitioners. This topic is partially"
"reported. Linde businesses are responsible for HR management at their respective regional level. Key metrics are consolidated at the  global level and reported here.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 77 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs  404-2 Linde offers a wide variety of training programs to different groups of employees to support their professional development and help them advance in  their respective functions. Examples include: •    Linde-"
"provided training programs and university courses with a work experience element for young people, as well as training opportunities in  various technical and commercial areas. The company has offered vocational training in dozens of different professions in multiple regions. Many of  the apprentices and student trainees have been offered job opportunities. •         The Emerging Leader Program is targeted at managers in transition (from first-line managers to middle managers).  •     Eligible"
"employees receive tuition reimbursement for eligible studies, such as an MBA.  •       Linde Engineering’s Project Execution Days (PED) provides an opportunity for project managers to gain industry-recognized Project Management  Professional (PMP) credentials. This fosters a better understanding of the project execution process and leads to better preparation to lead  company construction projects. •    Linde prioritizes internal talent development by empowering both emerging and senior leaders"
"through the Advanced Leadership Program (ALP)  and Executive Leadership Program (XLP). These initiatives provide the skills, experiences, and networks essential for leadership growth and long- term success. Several learning and development tools are made available to employees, allowing them to develop professional and interpersonal skills. Employees  participate in industry conferences and seminars that facilitate best-practice sharing and professional networking. The company’s financial"
"services  vendor routinely offers on-line and in-office seminars on financial planning, including financial planning for employees approaching retirement, in  some areas. In the U.S., under the company’s generally applicable severance plan, if employment terminates for certain reasons, U.S. employees are  generally eligible for severance benefits up to a maximum of 26 weeks of base pay, depending on their completed years of service. In addition to  retirement savings plan benefits, the company"
"offers access to financial planning tools and resources to aid in transition to retirement. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews  404-3 Talent Management At Linde, career development is a continuous journey—supported by our Performance Management Process (PMP) and a rich ecosystem of learning  and leadership programs. PMP fosters regular, meaningful conversations between managers and employees to align on goals, track progress, and  support the"
"development of a multi-dimensional performance appraisal process throughout the year. Complementing this, employees are encouraged  to take charge of their growth through tools like the Talent Profile, the Linde Competency Framework, and programs such as Leadership Pathways, ALP,  and XLP. Together, these initiatives create a culture of clarity, accountability, and opportunity—empowering every employee to thrive. Performance 404-3 Each year, Linde reinforces the connection between individual"
"performance and rewards by encouraging managers and employees to assess  progress against defined objectives. This transparent process ensures that all employees are not only accountable for delivering results but also for  demonstrating the competencies and behaviors that support their business strategies. The company’s performance management process is designed to: •     Ensure alignment between employee and BU/function goals •       Enhance communication between employees and managers •"
"Promote meaningful assessment and evaluation of individual performance •        Promote alignment between individual performance and pay Global Employee Training     2021 2022 2023 2024 All employee compliance training (ethics, integrity)  2 2 2 2 Employee development training, not including safety 20 20 20 20 Safety training – all employee average 48 50 51  58 Total average recorded formal training hours 70 72 73 80 SOC (9): Global Employee Training, Average Units: Hours per employee 404-1"
"Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 78 Linde’s focus on continuous improvement empowers employees to adjust their goals as business needs evolve. This flexibility strengthens  collaboration between managers and employees, making goal-setting a shared, dynamic process. Goals not only drive performance—they also  challenge individuals to grow, sharpen their skills, and contribute meaningfully to both their own development and the company’s success. Diversity of governance bodies and"
"employees  405-1 Talent, Inclusion and Engagement  is a formal support function operating under Corporate HR and develops strategies and initiatives within four pillars:  Talent Management, Inclusive Culture, Managerial Training and Marketplace Branding. Linde programs include: •   Talent pipeline initiatives, including ERGs and sponsorship programs for high performing employees. •   Voluntary heritage days and cultural awareness events. •        Training across the organization, including"
"Inclusive Leadership training. •    Social media and other forms of external communications. See also 404-1. SOC (10) provides current and historical information on diversity to the Board, the global senior leadership team and the CEO senior management team. The Linde Board of Directors consists of 10 members, including its CEO. In 2024, all Board members are over 50 years old, three (30 percent) are  female, and two (20 percent) are ethnically/racially diverse.   Globally, the percentage of"
"women employees is 28 percent.   Linde is committed to sourcing and retaining local talent, particularly in its emerging economy countries. The company does not currently report global  diversity breakdowns in all the ways requested in the GRI Standards.  In addition, Linde reports on the age distribution of its global workforce in the following categories: silent generation (those born in 1945 or before);  baby boomers (those born from 1946 to 1964); generation X (those born from 1965 to 1980);"
"millennials (those born from 1981 to 1996); and  generation Z (those born in 1997 or later). See SOC (11). Diversity in Global Leadership and Management  2021 2022 2023 2024  Board Diversity  % Women 20 20 20 30 % U.S. minority  10 20 20 20 % Total board diversity 30 40 40 50  Executive Leadership % Women 18 19 20 24 % U.S. minority 19 21 21 23 % Total executive diversity 22 25 21 29  Global Diversity (Male/Female)  Male/Female  Male/Female  Male/Female  Male/Female % Overall 73/27 72/28 72/28"
"72/28 % Management level and up 77/23 77/23 76/24 76/24 SOC (10): Diversity in Global Leadership and Management Units: percentage   Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 79 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men  405-2 Linde’s compensation policy assigns jobs into pay grades based on job descriptions so that employees with comparable functions and responsibilities  are compensated appropriately, regardless of age, sex, race or other prohibited characteristics. As part of its"
"compensation program, Linde conducts  annual pay equity analyses in the U.S. and in other countries where required by law. Linde discloses compensation information for named executive officers as well as the ratio of CEO pay to the median employee annually in its proxy  statement. Other specific salary information is confidential. Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken  406-1              Discrimination is prohibited by company policies. The Board of Directors has approved the"
"CBI and related program(s) to provide additional, specific  business conduct guidance to employees. Linde is committed to recruiting, hiring, compensating and promoting people based solely on their abilities, performance and qualifications for their  jobs, and to maintaining a professional work environment in which employees are treated with respect and dignity. As part of its commitment to  equal employment opportunity, the company prohibits discrimination or harassment based on race, color,"
"religion, sex, national origin, age, disability,  veteran status, pregnancy or gender identity or expression. This prohibition is applicable to all employees worldwide whether such behavior is  prohibited by the laws in the regions where it operates. The company is also committed to complying fully with applicable labor and employment laws  wherever it operates. The company takes these standards very seriously, and any non-compliance, depending on the circumstances, can result in serious"
"disciplinary action,  up to and including termination of employment. Information was distributed to employees worldwide to outline management’s expectation of ethical  conduct and integrity wherever Linde does business. Employees are required to annually certify that they have read and understood the material. This  was conducted in 2024. Employees are expected to report suspected complaints, concerns and violations through several channels, including the Linde Integrity Hotline.  Reports may be"
"made anonymously. All reports to the hotline are appropriately investigated and satisfactorily closed. It is a violation of company  policy for any person to retaliate against any individual who has reported such a matter in good faith. Reports to the company’s Integrity Hotline include, but are not limited to, potential human rights violations and potential incidents of alleged  discrimination involving internal and/or external stakeholders across operations in the reporting period. See 414-1"
"and 414-2.  Integrity Hotline Reporting In 2024, 752 reports were made to the Linde Integrity Hotline. Of the investigated cases in 2024, 438  were substantiated. Each report may have one  or more substantiated issues.  The range of issues was appropriately investigated and addressed. Internal Audit is responsible for maintaining and  retaining complete records about the receipt of all targeted complaints and their reporting, investigation and final resolution. Internal Audit develops  and"
"maintains a control and follow-up system for targeted complaints, including to the extent deemed appropriate, a written tracking system to  ensure that each complaint is promptly followed up and resolved, accountabilities are assigned and communicated, and each step in the handling of  the complaint is described in detail. See SOC (12). SOC (11): Age Distribution, Linde Employees  Units: percentage  405-1  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 80 406-1 Operations and suppliers in which the"
"right to freedom of association and collective  bargaining may be at risk 407-1, 409-1 Linde’s CBI, Human Rights Policy, Corporate HSE Policy and SCOC, as well as other corporate and country-level policies, make clear the company’s  commitment and management processes to address relevant areas of potential human rights concern. These include: freedom of peaceful assembly,  including freedom to choose whether to engage in collective bargaining, and employees’ participation in works agreements in"
"various countries.  Linde’s SCOC makes clear that suppliers are expected to recognize, as far as legally permitted, the right of free association and collective bargaining of  employees.  Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor  408-1 Linde’s CBI, Human Rights Policy and Corporate HSE Policy, as well as other corporate and country-level policies, make clear the company’s  commitment and management processes to address relevant areas of potential human rights"
"concern. These include prohibition of any form of child  labor. Linde’s SCOC makes clear that suppliers are expected to prohibit child labor and comply with minimum working age requirements prescribed by  national laws and international conventions.  Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor  409-1 Linde’s CBI, Human Rights Policy and Corporate HSE Policy, as well as other corporate and country-level policies, make clear the company’s  commitment"
"and management processes to address relevant areas of potential human rights concern. These include prohibition of any form of forced  labor, including human trafficking. Linde’s SCOC makes clear that suppliers are expected to prohibit any form of forced labor, including forced prison  labor, indentured labor, bonded labor, slave labor or any form of human trafficking. Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures  410-1 Linde security personnel were trained in Linde’s CBI,"
"which contains a section on human rights.  Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples  411-1 To Linde’s knowledge, in 2024, there were no incidents in its operations of violations of the rights of indigenous people. Therefore, no action was  required.  Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments  An “adverse human rights impact” occurs when an action removes or reduces the ability of an individual to enjoy his or her human rights. Both"
"because it is consistent with the company’s values and because of potential risk, Linde actively seeks to avoid causing or contributing to adverse  human rights impacts through its own activities with its employees, contractors and suppliers, and also with JVs, including those over which the  company does not have management control. Linde may be required to address human rights impacts when required by national regulation and may  choose to take voluntary action to support its values and"
"reputation, even if the company has not contributed to those impacts. Integrity Hotline Reporting 2021 2022 2023 2024 Hotline reports 523 546 674 752 Issues Substantiated:    Conflict of Interest 14 15 20 15 Fraud/Theft/Misuse of assets 91 90 119 174 Workplace 96 113 135 159 Integrity 7 4 10 6 SHEQ 68 52 81 77 Other compliance violations 79 97 118 129 SOC (12): Hotline Reports  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 81 Operational human rights issues include those related to employee and"
"contractor work conditions (e.g., safety, training, personal protective and  other safety equipment, the prohibition of forced or child labor, and if appropriate, access to housing and to clean and sanitary facilities) and worker  wellness (inclusion, development opportunities, access to healthcare and appropriate facilities). These are assured as part of the company’s normal  management processes at its sites and offices globally, as well as in JVs where it has management control.  Human rights"
"issues also may arise in Linde’s value chain — among Linde’s suppliers, customers or communities. For these and general human rights  issues management, see 414-1 and 414-2. Employee training on human rights policies or procedures  All targeted employees receive training annually in Linde’s CBI, which specifically addresses its commitment to human rights. In 2024, the recorded  percentage of those completing the training was 100 percent. Training in Human Rights Relevant to Linde’s Value Chain"
"In addition, construction contractors and contract truck drivers are required to be trained in Linde’s operational safety requirements. Linde has identified a salient human rights risk that it has an opportunity to help mitigate — the crime of sex trafficking along long-haul truck routes.  Linde has worked with leading non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in the Americas to bring awareness of this crime to its drivers, contract drivers,  management and employees. In the United States and"
"Canada, Linde has active engagement with Truckers Against Trafficking (TAT), and continuously  provides training to employees and contractors across Linde Americas.  In 2024, Linde hosted a two-day TAT event at its East Chicago and LaPorte  distribution centers where more than 100 attendees were trained, including Linde customers, employees and contractors. Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human  rights screening  Linde"
"integrates human rights considerations into its significant investment agreements and supplier relationships by adhering to international labor  and human rights standards in accordance with the company’s Human Rights Policy, SCOC and CBI, by conducting due diligence processes and by  promoting ethical business practices, fair labor conditions, and community engagement in its operations. Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments and development programs  413-1 Community is a"
"core value at Linde.  We are committed to improving the communities where we live and work. Our charitable contributions, along  with employee volunteerism, support initiatives that make important and sustainable contributions to our world. The company’s commitment to community is executed through two philanthropic program arms: •       Community engagement represents employee- and corporate-led programmatic efforts in communities where the company has a presence. •     Charitable contributions"
"through Linde’s Global Giving Program, which provides financial, philanthropic support in the form of scholarships,  contributions and support for employee volunteerism and matching gifts. Both strategic arms are aligned and work together to provide a significant, lasting value to local communities, to positively impact the company’s  reputation, and to develop and engage employees. Strategically, the programs work to deepen impact, engage employees and drive business goals,  complementing the"
"corporate mission of making our world more productive.  Many community engagement projects are also supported by the Global  Giving Program. This financial support helps volunteer projects to potentially have more far-reaching, long-term impact. Impact assessments are  performed on all reported community engagement efforts and on significant and long-term projects supported by the Global Giving Program.  Community Engagement Overview, Sustainable Development Goals and Strategic Focus Community"
"engagement efforts seek to make a lasting impact on communities and to address enduring problems. In 2024, approximately 90 percent  of community engagement projects addressed specific Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). For example, several programs, including Linde’s  SKILLS PIPELINE™ workforce development program, contribute to SDG 8: Decent work and economic growth and its subsets. This, and other community  support programs, are intended to have positive economic impact for communities"
"and for individuals and have been well regarded by legislators,  industry groups and academic leadership as offering creative solutions to address recognized needs. 411-1  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 82 413-1 In 2024, all Linde businesses participated in employee volunteer community engagement activities, and Linde employees spearheaded 821 projects  across the globe. These projects represent the efforts of approximately 500 sites. Frequently, sites collaborate on projects. In"
"2024, 23 percent of Linde  community engagement projects were sponsored by more than one site. The incidence of volunteerism, a measure of the number of times individual  employees engaged with the community, reached more than 19,000. The company has a healthy mix of established projects and a growing pipeline of new efforts launched to address changing needs. Community  engagement projects are classified by focus areas: environment, health, education and diversity and community support. These"
"focus areas parallel  the focus areas of the Global Giving Program.  See SOC (13) and EC (1).  Examples of company projects include: •      Education, where many teams globally engage with local schoolchildren through mentoring programs and donations of school supplies •     Inclusion including projects which help girls, minorities and other underrepresented populations in STEM fields •       Environment, including projects to promote biodiversity and to protect ecosystems in our communities See"
"more about Linde community engagement activities on the company website at: https://www.linde.com/about-linde/community. Education & Inclusion 24% Community 29% Health 27% Environment 20% SOC (13): Community Engagement Projects by Focus Area Strategy Three strategic elements for community engagement are deepen, engage and drive. •   Deepen Community need is a primary driver of community engagement. Projects are dictated by the needs of local communities combined with the desire and ability of"
"local project teams to help address these needs.  Linde community engagement is a proactive outreach to help build community resilience. In order to facilitate needs assessments, the company has  conducted training on incorporating community needs assessments when determining projects, and guidance for needs assessments is included in  the community engagement reporting tool. Sites are encouraged to build strong relationships with local communities. In order to identify and meet local needs,"
"community engagement is  frequently conducted with partners, including local government agencies, suppliers, customers and community groups. These partnerships help  deepen and extend the ability to help build resilient communities. •  Engage Community engagement is considered a leadership activity and is initiated by volunteers. It is also a way to increase awareness of community  needs. Linde often incorporates community engagement at company-sponsored meetings and conferences, and the company"
"uses these events to  develop employee skills and company networks; the company has done so formally since 2012. With the support and participation of business  leaders, these events continue to spur additional community engagement participation at locations around the globe.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 83 A hallmark of engagement at Linde has been the annual Earth Week celebration. Earth Week is an opportunity for employees and teams worldwide  to engage in personal and corporate"
"acts of environmental responsibility, mirroring the culture at Linde every day.  Projects often involve community  activities, including tree planting, roadside clean-ups and school educational events. Employees also share individual environmentally friendly acts.  Linde’s Global Giving Program then “matches” each act with a donation. In 2024, Earth Week events were extended across the entire month of April as  part of Linde’s Sustainability Month celebration.  Such programs not only have social"
"impact, but also environmental impact. Tree planting projects around the globe, such as those conducted by  Linde teams in conjunction with the Arbor Day Foundation, not only help to beautify areas but also combat erosion. In 2024, Linde teams planted  approximately 50,000  trees through community engagement efforts. Community Engagement programs also support Linde’s strategic goal to engage  employees. In addition to camaraderie, community engagement also helps to develop leadership and other"
"beneficial skills for all employees.  Employees continue  to affirm the value of time spent in these activities, and community engagement has been cited as a factor that contributes to choosing to join Linde  for employment.  The Global Giving Program helps employees benefit charities in their own communities through matching gifts and employee volunteer grants, which  makes up approximately 13 percent of total Linde giving. The matching gifts program also includes countries outside of the U.S."
"Enthusiasm for community engagement is complemented by Linde’s global award for Community Engagement. Introduced in 2009, this recognition  from Linde’s CEO honors successful efforts that demonstrate a high level of commitment and impact. In 2024, exemplary projects from each business  or region were recognized, along with six global winners. Award-winning project teams are honored and receive a significant charitable donation.  Charitable awards, when possible, are designated to the original"
"beneficiary organization to enable the project teams to deepen their efforts, and,  ultimately, to increase the impact on communities. Projects are recognized for outcomes as well as strategic alignment with company goals. •   Drive Driving impact through community engagement is the third main strategic objective. Along with employee-led efforts, Linde’s corporate-led community engagement efforts work to confirm its mission and align with business drivers  through strategic initiatives,"
"especially in the STEM fields. These programs directly help to increase the number of skilled men and women in the  workforce. In addition, both illustrate that the Linde community engagement program and Linde’s Global Giving Program work hand-in-hand. The skills gap comprises problems for many stakeholders: •        Workers: Lack of preparedness for the underemployed and unemployed •    Colleges: Disconnects between training and industry expectations •      Industry: Increased cost or project"
"delays due to training or retraining In certain programs, students also earn college credit, allowing them to stack credits transferable to degree programs, in addition to gaining industry- relevant credentials and exposure to potential employment opportunities.   The company’s SKILLS PIPELINE workforce development program is the result of a collaboration with local communities as well as other members of  industry, academia and/or government. Programs provide opportunities to develop skills and"
"increase quality of life. Notably, Linde’s SKILLS PIPELINE  workforce development program presented new opportunities to community members traditionally underrepresented in some career fields, for  example, women in welding. The SKILLS PIPELINE programs offer a multi-faceted approach to workforce development, including community awareness campaigns, scholarships to  provide training for skilled workers, professional development opportunities, support to increase the skills of incumbent workers"
"and instructorships  for teachers. In 2024, Linde saw graduations from workforce development efforts and welcomed its newest cohort in an advanced manufacturing program in  Connecticut.  Many past graduates have found a place in industry post-graduation, and some are working for Linde businesses, demonstrating the  ability of programs such as those in the SKILLS PIPELINE family to address the skilled-crafts gap that exists in industry. Linde continuously considers expansion to other skill areas"
"critical for Linde, and to more geographical locations.  For example, Linde has supported  schools and training centers for welding technology outside of the U.S., especially in regions with low levels of average income, by providing the  necessary equipment and expertise. Such programs contribute to improving local living conditions and enhancing equal opportunities. 413-1  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 84 Community Input With a presence in more than 80 countries, Linde is, at its"
"core, a “local” company. As the company is a member of numerous individual local  neighborhoods, communities are one of its relevant stakeholders. For the process for determining Linde stakeholders and engaging those stakeholder  groups, see the Engaging Stakeholders section. Linde integrates their feedback into its process to determine PFs, KPIs and targets.  Community relations begin with the initial entry into a new area, and the company continues to be part of the neighborhoods where its"
"facilities  have a presence and where its team members live and work. Being a good neighbor includes not only understanding community needs to set up or  volunteer in suitable community engagement activities, but also to communicate crucial information, and to listen to and consider opinions, questions  and concerns. In its Responsible Care Global Policy, the company defines general guiding principles regarding communications with external stakeholders, such  as communities, and procedures to"
"periodically assess their questions and concerns, implement suitable communication processes and measure  performance. The policy also provides the responsibilities for business heads and operations heads, accordingly. Linde communicates information  about product hazards and safe handling, and safety, health and environmental programs and performance, as appropriate. This also includes sharing  emergency preparedness plans with community representatives. The effectiveness of the company’s"
"stakeholder communications programs is  evaluated regularly. As for all other stakeholders, the company’s standard of responsible behavior towards communities is confirmed by Linde’s CBI.  Formal ways to contact Linde are available on its website, for both email and phone inquiries.  Linde employees and teams pay close attention to local needs through activities, such as joining community committees, attending local town  meetings, providing public safety awareness, hosting educational community"
"events and engaging with relevant nonprofit and/or community  organizations. Linde hosts community informational events in neighborhoods near operations and builds close relationships with local providers of  emergency services. The Linde Technology Center in Tonawanda, NY, has a decades-long mentorship program with a local school, and team members  have helped a local community center take root in the community, with service that range from providing materials, outfitting the computer lab and"
"teaching cooking classes, to participating on the board. These types of engagements show the evolution from needs assessments to conversations to  actions that promote continued engagement and potentially lead to lasting impact.  Community events are often a part of workforce development programming as well as engagement between businesses and neighborhoods. In  addition, the company’s pipeline business has frequent events to educate the community about the business and the importance of safety."
"As part of the continuing focus on community relations, Linde has developed a  framework for community conversations and support alongside  impactful organizations. The Community Impact Assessment Framework is available to businesses and project execution teams and is a valuable  tool for understanding community needs and impacts during the planning of new and/or significant expansions of Linde sites. It includes guidance  for discussions with key stakeholders in communities, which may include"
"representatives from municipalities and community organizations;  understanding community needs; and proposals of potential ways to address these community needs and bring positive impact, especially through  social, educational or environmental initiatives.  Community Engagement Impact Assessment  Linde assesses the short- and long-term impacts generated by its philanthropic activity. By understanding community needs and how the company  can best help address them, impacts are anticipated at"
"the beginning and then measured at appropriate times during projects.  413-1  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 85 Impactful projects are the goal of all community engagement efforts. Linde’s most recent Sustainable Development Materiality Assessment (SDMA)  identified community engagement as a priority for Linde and its stakeholders. Goals and targets are developed and maintained based on the SDMA,  managed and reported in the SDMS and published in this report. Linde’s strong culture of"
"execution complements its efforts to measure the impact of  community engagement. As in prior years, Linde measures and reports the social and environmental impact and outcomes, as well as the employee and  company benefits, of community engagement based upon a methodology developed by the United Kingdom-based LBG report, Making a Difference.  Before the start of community engagement efforts, project teams focus on desired outcomes from the projects. At the conclusion of each project, the  teams"
"measure benefits, as reported by volunteers and/or beneficiaries. Increasingly, third parties help to validate project benefits. •   Inputs Inputs are measured by the number of hours, number of sites participating and incidence of volunteerism. Participation grew from 2023.  See SOC (14). •  Outputs Outputs are measured by the number of beneficiaries, money raised and goods donated. Linde volunteers brought direct benefits to more than  360,000 people, including approximately 90,000 students."
"See SOC (14).  Additionally, projects reported funds that employees and facilities raised or donated in support of community engagement. In addition to funding  from the Linde Global Giving Program, employees and facilities raised or donated more than $2.3 million in cash and in-kind donations, including food,  clothing, trees/seedlings and other forms of in-kind support. This contribution included more than $1.9 million in cash contributions from employees  and facilities. •   Impacts Key"
"impacts are reported as benefits to project recipients, employee volunteers and to the company. Linde has compared the performance of these  metrics over time and continues to see a positive impact overall. •    Community Benefits In 94 percent of projects, volunteers reported that community engagement created a positive impact on the attitudes of recipients. In 81 percent of  projects, volunteers reported that community engagement provided recipients with job skills or opportunities for"
"personal growth. In 90 percent of  projects, volunteers reported that community engagement had a direct impact on the recipients’ quality of life. 413-1 96% helped increase employees’ interpersonal development 95% positively impacted employees’ outlook on Linde  IMPACTS OF COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT PROJECTS ON 90% positively impacted beneficiaries’ quality of life  81% developed beneficiaries’ skills or personal growth  95% increased employees’ awareness of community needs  93% contributed to"
"employees’ personal growth 87% increased employees’ management effectiveness  60% helped employees develop workplace-transferable skills 94% helped beneficiaries develop positive attitudes EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERS COMMUNITY LINDE 98% promoted employee engagement  53% actively engaged Linde’s customers 93% positively impacted Linde’s reputation  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 86 As an example of the above impacts, graduates from the company’s SKILLS PIPELINE programs have been hired by"
"Linde, its customers and other  members of industry. Graduates leave the program with industry-recognized credentials. The program also introduces skills to diverse populations,  including women and veterans. The program is marketed broadly across the community at large, increasing awareness of opportunities for those who  may be historically underrepresented in career fields. For example, approximately 20 percent of graduates from the NVCC Advanced Manufacturing  program in Danbury, CT are"
"women.    Programs continue to be marketed broadly across the community at large, which helps to reduce the risk of reducing underserved communities’  awareness of opportunities. Since many opportunities may be associated with emerging or rapidly advancing technology, a lack of awareness can  lead, potentially, to reduced likelihood of vulnerable communities to participate in and adopt new technologies that can be one source of new  opportunities and self-sufficiency. •        Employee Volunteer"
"Benefits In 93 percent of projects, volunteers reported that community engagement helped to increase their own personal growth and effectiveness. In 96  percent of projects, employees reported that volunteering helped increase their interpersonal development. In 87 percent of projects, volunteers  reported that community engagement helped to increase their management effectiveness. Further, in 60 percent of projects, employees reported  learning and/or developing skills that were transferable to"
"the workplace. Prior voluntary offerings at Linde included training where employees  learned more about voluntary board service and the multiple skills offered through such experiences. Several employees have expressed interest or  have joined non-profit boards after attending such training, increasing engagement with the community. Community engagement affects how employees view both Linde and their communities. In 95 percent of projects, volunteers reported that community  engagement"
"positively impacted their outlook on Linde and/or their job. In 95 percent of projects, volunteers reported that community engagement  gave them a better awareness of the community. •      Linde Benefits Benefits to Linde are measured in terms of increased engagement with customers and employees and impact on reputation. In 53 percent of projects,  volunteers reported that the community engagement projects provided opportunities to engage with customers. In 98 percent of projects, volunteers"
"reported that community engagement helped to build employee engagement. The impact on reputation is also assessed separately: In approximately  85 percent of projects, volunteers reported that community engagement  projects were likely to increase awareness of Linde. In about one half of these instances, teams reported that third parties provided validation of their  efforts or the positive impact of their project(s). Longer term, Linde assesses the impacts, both qualitative and quantitative, on"
"multiple stakeholders from signature efforts. As a result of its continued  community engagement efforts, Linde has seen increased engagement with customers and suppliers, and, ultimately, available skilled talent to meet  current demands for workers. It is truly a win-win. 500 450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Number of Sites Participating 2021 2022 2023 2024 451 457 468 503 25,000 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 0 Incidence of Volunteerism 2021 2022 2023 2024 13,982 9,894 14,457 19,062 500,000"
"400,000 300,000 200,000 100,000 0 2021 2022 2023 2024 350,000 250,000 350,000 360,000 105,000 90,000 75,000 60,000 45,000 30,000 15,000 Hours of Volunteerism by Employees 2021 2022 2023 2024 95,142 60,567 105,665 80,401 Number of Beneficiaries SOC (14): Community Engagement Projects Inputs & Outputs 413-1  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 87 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities  413-2 Linde is unaware of situations where it has had a"
"negative impact on local communities. The company exercises great care to ensure that its  investments in local communities are positive, and that local communities perceive the company as a safe place to work and as a good employer.  Linde has had no reports of significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Rather, community engagement efforts have  demonstrated tangible positive outcomes. See 413-1. New suppliers that were screened using social rights criteria  414-1"
"Suppliers are key to Linde’s ability to meet its customer needs. New suppliers are screened at the prequalification stage for social issues, including  compliance with labor and employment laws, ethics and integrity, safety, human rights, environmental topics and financial stability.  For qualification, suppliers and contractors must agree to ensure compliance with their contractual commitments and Linde’s CBI and SCOC, including  its Human Rights commitments therein, or demonstrate a comparable"
"commitment to business integrity and human rights via their own policies.  The company’s General Terms and Conditions of Purchase and supplier agreements include language that require its suppliers to obey international  conventions and national and regional statutory requirements in the countries in which they operate, including any applicable national laws regarding  human trafficking, forced labor and other forms of modern slavery. The Procurement organization regularly discusses these"
"expectations with  suppliers upon qualification contracting and during any audits conducted.   The executive management team communicates with the company’s top-tier suppliers annually to reinforce its commitment to its policies and to  remind suppliers of their obligations in contracting with the company. Specifically, the executives reaffirm that the company expects business dealings  with suppliers to be based on fairness, honesty, lawfulness, safety, environmental stewardship and social"
"consciousness. Linde continues to assess  the effectiveness of its strategy and, where appropriate, to adopt policies and practices that improve its program. Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken  414-2 Suppliers are assessed for social impacts broadly defined, including safety and compliance, which are included within Linde’s basic operational  policies and procedures. In the areas that are integral to these operational policies and procedures, such as safety, integrity"
"and compliance, labor  standards and anti-discrimination, issues such as non-compliance and remediation are dealt with on an ongoing basis along with following local  supply chain due diligence regulatory requirements. For steps taken regarding potential suppliers of materials from conflict zones; see below.  Due Diligence Linde’s Human Rights Due Diligence Process is summarized in Table SOC (15). 414-2. This process is informed by the UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework. For policies and"
"commitments, see page 28, 406-1, 207-1, 408-1  and 409-1. A set of human rights risks relating to contractors relate to Linde’s CBI and HSE Policy (safety, non-discrimination, ethics and integrity). As with  employees, well-established processes assess and address these contractor risks, and mitigation action, if and where required, is taken. Suppliers are  assessed on a planned schedule through Linde Procurement and through SHEQ internal audits.     Process to identify and assess salient human"
"rights risks Linde uses four tools to identify, review and assess potential human rights risks across the company’s own operations, its contractor operations and  the operations of its JVs, including those over which it has no management control: 1.        Internal global Business Risk Assessment process Country management and functional leaders participate in quarterly enterprise-wide global risk assessments. In 2024, human rights were not  identified as a top risk, directly or indirectly, nor"
"were they so identified in the last several years.  2.       Continuous review of emerging regulatory issues in human rights The CCO, together with the businesses and the vice president, Sustainability, are responsible for staying up-to-date on emerging regulations in  the area of human rights. In 2024, Linde provided its disclosure, as required by regulation and in compliance with the disclosure requirements of  Section 1502 (“Conflict Minerals Provision”) of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street"
"Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”).  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 88 414-2 Applicable Linde businesses also comply with the applicable requirements in Australia, Canada and the German Act on Corporate Due Diligence  Obligations in Supply Chains, which came into effect in January 2023. 3.    Linde’s Compliance Review Board (CRB) The CCO oversees compliance with the CBI and related policies, including human rights. The CCO coordinates activity with business CRBs and"
"with senior management to oversee emerging regulatory issues, review hotline reports and take appropriate action. If these reviews indicate an  emerging potential risk, proactive measures are put in place. Linde’s CRB reviews information supplied to the Integrity Hotline monthly at the business level and each quarter at the corporate level (including  the CEO, the EVP and Chief Legal Officer, the EVP and CHRO, other members of the Executive Leadership Team, the CCO, the head of Internal Audits"
"and the SVP and Chief Accounting Officer). In 2024, there were 752 reports to the Linde hotline, of which none related to potential human rights issues (which would be listed within concerns  about “Other Policy Violations”), see 406-1. No reports were made about potential human rights concerns to the hotline from internal or external  parties, and Linde has no knowledge of systematic discrimination by Linde employees against Linde colleagues or third parties (e.g., potential recruits,"
"suppliers, customers) or potentially vulnerable groups (e.g., children, indigenous people, migrant labor or local communities) on the basis of race,  color, religion, gender identity or expression, national origin, age, disability, veteran status, pregnancy or sexual orientation, and it has no knowledge  or reports of unfair compensation or hours of work, lack of access to a safe and sanitary work environment, restrictions on the right to choose or not  choose employee organizations, or the use"
"of child, compulsory or forced labor. All of these areas are protected under Linde’s CBI. The CBI prohibits any form of retaliation against any individual for good faith reporting what he/she believes to be non-compliance with this policy  to their management, to the appropriate staff group or to the confidential Linde Integrity Hotline. Individual cases of misconduct are promptly  investigated. Linde does not tolerate verified misconduct: appropriate measures are taken, up to and including"
"dismissal. Reports to the hotline are  reviewed locally by the business CRBs and by the corporate CRB. The Linde CRB identifies human rights as a potential issue in its hotline classifications, among “Other Compliance Violations.” In 2024, Linde  reported 96 substantiated incidents of “Other Compliance Violations;” If any issue arose and was substantiated as a human rights violation, it would  be managed in the company’s standard process. Substantiated violations of the CBI are escalated to the"
"Executive Leadership Team and are subject  to a root cause analysis. In such cases, a corrective action plan is implemented.  4.      Linde annual review of emerging country-level human rights risk As part of an annual process, the vice president, Sustainability, reviews trends in human rights risk on a country basis in countries where Linde  operates. Groups that are specifically assessed include Linde employees, suppliers, third-party contracted labor, children/adolescents, women  and migrant"
"and minority populations. The vice president, Sustainability, reviews material in the media and annual human rights reports issued by  the U.S. Department of State (DOS) For 2024, it was determined that these reports did not indicate new human rights risks, and no new action was  taken.  Human Rights Risk—Assessment There is concern that a small portion of suppliers, or their suppliers, including Linde’s Advanced Material Technologies business and the company’s  engineering business, could be"
"sourcing materials from “conflict zones” where there is a risk of human rights violations.  •   Conflict Minerals: Based on Linde’s commitment to governance, compliance and human rights, the most salient human rights issue associated with  Linde activities and business relationships is the issue of potential “conflict minerals” in its supply chain. Certain minerals (including tin, tantalum,  tungsten and gold) have been linked with funding killings, violence, rape and other human rights abuses"
"in the Democratic Republic of Congo and  other conflict zones. These affect all citizens in these regions, especially women, children and adolescents.  Linde has determined that approximately 11 percent of its 2024 consolidated sales relate to products that Linde manufactures, or contracts to  manufacture, that may contain necessary conflict minerals. To mitigate potential human rights violations in the “conflict minerals” supply chain,  Linde’s due diligence process conforms, in all material"
"respects, with the framework set forth in the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible  Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas (OECD Guidance) and the related supplements for gold, tin, tantalum and  tungsten.   Linde’s Conflict Materials Supply Policy is available on Linde’s website at: https://assets.linde.com/-/media/global/corporate/corporate/ documents/global-procurement/linde-conflict-free-materials-supply-policy.pdf. Linde’s due diligence process includes"
"monitoring the performance  and continual improvement of its suppliers, and, where relevant, with their suppliers, and reporting to the U.S. Securities and Exchange  Commission (SEC), on Linde’s website at: https://irpages2.eqs.com/websites/lindeplc/English/3210/us-sec-filing.html?shortDesc=Specialized%20  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 89 Coverage Policy and Due Diligence Process Action Plans Remediation Activity Employee—compliance and safety in offices and operations •        CBI"
"(2): Adherence is required by employees; employees are trained annually and  certify acknowledgment. •      HSE Policy (1): Through ongoing training of employees and contractors and regular  auditing of health and safety management, the company ensures that the requirements  for health protection and safety precautions are systematically and sustainably  implemented in its processes. •        Compliance, HR, SHEQ and business management ensure compliance with uniformly  high safety standards and"
"initiate necessary guidelines, strategies and programs. •      No actions required as no issues occurred that  would require measures beyond the already  established mitigation plans. •      Remediation actions are integral to the  Compliance and SHEQ programs.  •       Linde businesses record worldwide incidents  that occur. A root cause analysis is performed, a  report is provided to Executive Leadership and  best practices are shared. Multiple actions are  taken to prevent repetition."
"Employees— Labor at operations and offices •     Flexible working-time models (where possible). •        Market-rate compensation. •     Wide-ranging measures to promote health and wellbeing at company sites (e.g., medical  check-ups, training on stress management lifestyle options, availability of fitness centers). •  No actions required as no issues occurred that  would require measures beyond the already  established mitigation plans. Employees—non-discrimination at operations and offices •"
"Worldwide training in the CBI, anti-harassment and nondiscrimination principles and policies. •         A range of avenues provided to report potential discrimination issues, including  anonymously through the Integrity Hotline. All employees receive training in this,  and reports are investigated and handled per established mitigation and disciplinary  procedures. •       No actions required as the company received no  indications of human rights violations that would  require measures beyond"
"the already established  mitigation plans; the company has no reports or  knowledge of any systematic discrimination.  •     Verified misconduct is not tolerated and results  in appropriate disciplinary measures, up to and  including termination of employment. Disclosure%20Report&format=convpdf&secFilingId=b72f32c4-4dd6-4e4b-929a-cbf70b238a68. Linde continues to work with these suppliers to  ensure conformance with its policy and standards and with applicable law. •       Due Diligence"
"Obligations in Supply Chains: Linde has established a risk management framework according to the German Act on Corporate Due  Diligence Obligations in Supply Chains (Supply Chain Act). This includes, but is not limited to, the nomination of a human rights officer for Linde  GmbH and its affiliates that are in scope of the Supply Chain Act, the execution of an abstract and a specific risk analysis of suppliers, including  country, sector and product specific risks, the application of Linde’s"
"existing policies and processes, the required documentation, policies to inform  management and external reporting. Linde GmbH has published a General Statement related to the Supply Chain Act at: https://www.linde.com/ sustainability/policies-and-position-statements/linde-gmbh-general-statement. •       Slavery in Supply Chain: Linde has policies in conformance with country regulations. For example, in the U.K., Canada, and Australia, Linde has  published policies in conformance with The U.K."
"Modern Anti-Slavery Act of 2015, the Australian Modern Slavery Act of 2018 and the Canadian  Modern Slavery Act of 2024, which reaffirms its stance against all forms of child, compulsory or forced labor across its operations. Linde expects  all its business partners, suppliers, and contractors to demonstrate a similar commitment to preventing forced labor practices. Also, Linde’s SCOC  outlines its expectations of ethical supplier behavior, including respecting human rights and forbidding the"
"use of forced, child, or bonded labor.  The code also requires suppliers to demonstrate compliance with country-specific regulations and provide ongoing assurances that they do not  engage in modern slavery practices. •  Sex Trafficking on Truck Driving Routes: Linde works with major NGOs active in this area to train its network of employee and contractor truck  drivers to help mitigate this crime. Voluntary action is ongoing in Brazil, the U.S., Mexico and Canada. Monitoring, Communication and"
"Training Regular reviews are conducted across all regions to confirm that processes are set up to ensure compliance with corporate policies, including human  rights, compliance, safety and employment, and labor standards. Many of these themes fall under regular Linde management and are managed  through those functions. Current procedures in place specify consequences up to termination (for employees) or discontinuation of contracts (for  suppliers), if any confirmed human rights violations were"
"found. See 404-1 for a description of training and other programs to reinforce compliance,  safety and fair labor practices. Human Rights Grievances To Linde’s knowledge, in 2024, there were no grievances related to human rights filed through formal organizational grievance mechanisms by  individuals or groups, internal or external to the organization, and none through the Integrity Hotline. 414-2  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 90  Coverage  Policy and Due Diligence Process Action"
"Plans  Remediation Activity Contractors and Suppliers (5) •        Where applicable, general procurement Terms and Conditions (Ts&Cs) (4), including  Linde’s SCOC. By accepting applicable Ts&Cs, the supplier acknowledges Linde’s SCOC and  is required to comply with the SCOC (e.g., through self-assessments). •     As part of the standard documentation for all new and renewing contractors, suppliers  under applicable Ts&Cs must confirm conformance with the SCOC and with Linde’s CBI or  equivalent"
"policies of their own.   •     Contractors working at Linde plants are required to receive safety induction training. •        Linde is committed to maintaining long-term relationships with its suppliers where they  contribute continued business value. Certain suppliers are audited on a planned schedule  and on a broad scope. If deviations are discovered, Linde is committed to working with  suppliers on remedies through capacity-building, education and training. Continued,  material and/or"
"willful non-conformance are grounds for contract termination. •         Linde may inspect or appoint a third-party inspector if it believes a supplier may be in  material breach of the SCOC. Material breaches of Linde’s applicable Ts&Cs include, but  are not limited to, incidents of forced or child labor, corruption and bribery, and failure to  comply with the SCOC’s environmental protection requirements. •      The Integrity Hotline (3) provides various ways of reporting potential issues for"
"employees  or third parties. •        No remediation actions as the company received  no indications of human rights violations that  would require measures beyond the already  established mitigation plans.  •     In case of material breach of the SCOC, Linde’s  Ts&Cs note that Linde may terminate the business  relationship, subject to contract conditions or  other rights or legal grounds. Applicable Customers •       Product safety management steers product stewardship. •         Worldwide"
"tracking of relevant products and their application with respect to potential  health and environmental impacts. •    Safety Data Sheets (SDSs) provided in more than 40 languages to inform customers about  relevant safety measures. •     Integrity Hotline (3) provides various ways of reporting potential issues for employees or  third parties. •    No actions required beyond the already  established mitigation plans. Communities where Linde invests and operates •    Linde connects with community"
"members by fostering activities that support community  life and development, principally through Linde’s employee Community Engagement  activities.  •   Integrity Hotline (3) provides various ways of reporting potential issues for employees or  third parties. •    No actions required beyond the already  established mitigation plans. SOC (15): Human Rights Due Diligence Process 414-2 1) Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) Policy: https://www.linde.com/sustainability/safety-health-environment-"
"quality/policies-and-responsible-care-commitment  2) CBI: https://www.linde.com/sustainability/integrity-and-compliance/code-of-business-integrity 3) See SOC (12) for Integrity Hotline information 4) Linde’s Procurement Ts&Cs are available at: https://assets.linde.com/-/media/global/corporate/corporate/documents/global-procurement/linde_general_terms_and_conditions_of_purchase_global-master.pdf.  5) Additional activity and reporting are provided for potential suppliers of materials from conflict"
"zones. This is reported annually in Linde’s Form SD and in its Sustainable Development Report, both posted on Linde’s website at: https://www.linde.com. 414-2  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 91 Political Contributions 2021 2022 2023 2024 Political Contributions (USD) 0 0 0 0 Policy-Related Spending 2021 2022 2023 2024 Contributions from PAC $10 $7 $8 $13 Expenses for Memberships in Trade Associations and  Tax-exempt Organizations* and Lobbying Firms $3,329 $3,053 $3,165 $3,051  Total"
"$3,339 $3,060 $3,173 $3,064 Political contributions  415-1 Linde does not make any political contributions as a company, neither to political parties nor candidates.  In the U.S., employees have formed a political action committee (PAC). Under the umbrella of this independent registered committee, employees  pool political contributions and direct donations to politicians, political parties and associations.   The PAC Executive Committee has broad employee  representation and approves all"
"political contributions made on behalf of the PAC. The Linde PAC is governed by a series of internal policies and  adheres to a strict set of by-laws. In 2024, total PAC distributions totaled approximately $12,500 to local, state and federal candidates for elected office  representing both political parties. (Scope: U.S., not including Lincare.) Policy-related data reported below includes contributions to political campaigns (from the Linde PAC), and Linde’s contributions to trade associations,"
"tax-exempt organizations and lobbying firms. In 2024, the total contribution was approximately $3 million, of which more than half was for trade  associations and tax-exempt organizations. The actual amounts of the memberships that relate to policy is significantly less. See SOC (16) and SOC (17). There was no spending on ballot measures or referendums. Political contributions receipts and disbursements are reported in detail and  disclosed publicly. This detail can be found on the U.S. Federal"
"Elections Commission website at: https://www.fec.gov/data/committee/ C00283440/?cycle=2024. Linde’s political contributions policy is provided at:  https://assets.linde.com/-/media/global/corporate/corporate/documents/compliance-policies/political-contributions-lobbying-policy.pdf. Public Advocacy Issues Two of Linde’s largest public policy advocacy issues are related to the promotion of clean hydrogen production and carbon capture policies. Decarbonization is a priority for Linde, with the goal"
"of investing in decarbonization technologies in large capital projects, where the primary aim of  Linde and/or its customers is to reduce GHG emissions or advance the use of low-carbon fuels and energy. Global progress and adoption of hydrogen  and other alternatives to fossil fuels is key to global reduction of GHGs and Linde’s commitment to its own climate change targets. Linde is required to publicly file lobbying activity in the United States and all lobbying disclosure act reports can be"
"found on the U.S. Senate’s  lobbying disclosure website at https://lda.senate.gov/system/public. For additional information on Linde’s policy advocacy, also see its most recent  annual CDP Climate Change Response at: https://assets.linde.com/-/media/global/corporate/corporate/documents/sustainable-development/2024- cdp-response-climate-change.pdf. Trade Associations In addition to reporting political contributions, Linde also reports on trade associations in which the company is a member. See"
"the Memberships of  Associations section.  Two of the largest trade associations in which the company is a member include the American Chemistry Council (ACC) and  Compressed Gas Association (CGA).  SOC (16): Political Contributions Units: USD SOC (17): Policy-Related Spending Units: USD, thousands * Includes policy-related portion of membership only  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 92 Product Responsibility Stage Health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed  for"
"improvement at all product lifecycle stages Development of  product concept Product Design Safety: Design reviews consider the ways that the product may be used or misused and include design features that  mitigate associated hazards and help protect customer safety. Risk Review: During Linde’s product risk review process, new products are evaluated to identify potential health, safety and  environmental risks associated with each phase of the product’s life, and to identify product design"
"features and management  systems that adequately control those risks. R&D R&D evaluates commercialization projects using a stage gate process, from ideation to launch, for environmental and health and  safety impacts. Certification Linde’s product stewardship practices are audited by third parties for conformance with Responsible Care Product Stewardship  requirements when required by Country Chemical Associations for membership or recognition as a Responsible Care company in that  country."
"Procurement  Specification and  Control The specifications for materials purchased from others are communicated to suppliers, and compliance with those requirements is  adequately verified. Manufacturing and  production Manufacturing control procedures are established, and personnel involved in the manufacturing process are trained to help ensure  consistent product quality within product specifications. Linde’s Safety program includes leadership, personal commitment, training  and resources."
"See the Linde website for information on safety. Marketing and  promotion Per Linde’s CBI: All advertising, marketing and sales activities must describe offerings and services legally, fairly and honestly, never  using false, misleading or deceptive information. All advertising, marketing, and promotion of its Healthcare Products/Services is  consistent with all applicable laws and regulations. Storage distribution  and supply Distribution and Installation Control: Procedures are established,"
"and personnel involved in product distribution and customer site  equipment installation are trained to help ensure safe product deliveries, storage and use. Use and service Incident Reporting and Investigation: Incidents involving misuse and disposal of products are reported, investigated and analyzed to  learn more about product risks, and, if necessary, provide a basis for corrective action. Hazard Communication: Information on the safe use and handling of each product, together with relevant"
"health, safety and  environmental protection information, is communicated to the customer in a timely manner through appropriate use of SDSs, product  labeling, product use instructions, and customer training and support. Product Recall: Procedures are established to help ensure that products already in the marketplace can be recalled or upgraded, if necessary, when required under Linde policy or applicable law.   Disposal, re-use or  recycling Product Disposal: When applicable, procedures are"
"established to identify products or product components in inventory that are no  longer suitable for customer use and, as appropriate, to refurbish, replace or dispose of them in an environmentally safe manner. Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories  416-1 Minimizing Product Risk Linde has a team of business, engineering, operations and safety professionals that examine the potential environmental, health and safety risks of every  new product. The entire"
"life cycle of the product — from raw material procurement through manufacturing, distribution, use and disposal — is reviewed.  403-7 Significant product or service categories are covered by and assessed for compliance with these procedures. •  Risk Review: Identify the potential risks in each phase of the product’s lifecycle and the design features and management systems that minimize risks. •        Product Design Safety: Consider how a product may be used or misused and identify design"
"features that could mitigate potential hazards. •      Procurement Specification and Control: Verify compliance with purchased material requirements and specifications. •     Manufacturing Control: Establish procedures and train personnel to ensure consistent product quality within product specifications. •   Distribution and Installation Control: Establish procedures and train personnel to ensure safe product deliveries, storage and customer applications. •         Hazard Communication:"
"Communicate information on the safe use and handling of each product in a timely manner through appropriate use of SDSs,  product labeling, product use instructions, customer training and support. •    Product Disposal: Establish procedures to identify products that are no longer suitable for customer use and refurbish, replace or dispose of them in an  environmentally safe manner. •        Incident Reporting and Investigation: Report, investigate and analyze incidents involving Linde products"
"to learn more about product risks and to take  corrective action. SOC (18): Product Responsibility  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 93 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services  416-2 For 2024, the company is not aware of any reported substantial incidents of non-compliance with regulations or voluntary codes concerning the health  and safety impacts of products and services that would have a material adverse effect.  Requirements for"
"product and service information and labeling  417-1 Linde’s Responsible Care Policy commits the company’s organizations to “work with customers, carriers, suppliers, distributors, employees and  contractors to foster the safe and secure use, transport and disposal of chemicals and provide hazard and risk information that can be accessed and  applied in their operations and products.”  Linde’s significant product and service categories have processes in place with requirements for product and"
"service information and labeling. •      SDSs are prepared in accordance with either U.S. or European directives and are region- or country-specific. Activities required for compliance with  the Global Harmonized System (GHS) for Classification and Labeling (CLP) are being implemented. •         Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) and Chemicals of Concern: REACH and CLP regulations promulgated by  the European Union require complete information on the"
"chemical properties, hazard profile and uses of all products manufactured or imported into  Europe. The company tracks the status of substances that must be registered through the European Chemicals Industry Association’s (EIGA’s) REACH  website.  Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) and Prioritized Chemicals: Linde is subject to and in compliance with the Frank R. Lautenberg Chemical Safety for  the 21st Century Act, which requires risk-based chemical assessments and increased public"
"transparency for chemical information. Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling  417-2 For 2024, the company is not aware of any reported substantial incidents of non-compliance with regulations or voluntary codes concerning Linde  product and service information and labeling that would have a material adverse effect. Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data  418-1 Linde’s CBI has a section on data"
"protection that defines how important it is for employees to follow the law and comply with company procedures,  protocols and guidelines. This issue has been strongly prioritized in recent years because of new complexities being created by the proliferation of  electronic communication. Due to this high priority, policies and training are provided. For example, the 2024 Annual Report (10K) , page 10, is publicly  available at:"
"https://assets.linde.com/-/media/global/corporate/corporate/documents/investors/full-year-financial-reports/2024-annual-report-to- shareholders.pdf, and identifies the risk regarding information related to technology systems, network failures and breaches. Dedicated cybersecurity teams conduct surveillance for potential threats and implement both procedural and technological controls to protect data  and to ensure safe, uninterrupted operations. There are also training programs for employees and"
"cybersecurity awareness programs. Linde provides  data privacy awareness training as part of its offerings for employees.  As far as the company can determine, there have not been substantial complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of data for 2024.  Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of  products and services  2-27 The company is not aware of any significant penalties imposed in 2024 resulting"
"from the use of its gas products that would have a material adverse  effect. An example of Linde’s ongoing commitment to the health and safety impacts of its products is its commitment to zero sales of coating slurries that contain  hexavalent chrome [Cr(VI)] by Linde Advanced Material Technologies (LAMT). LAMT has developed a timeline for the phase-out of these materials and  services by 2029, with several key milestones having already been met as of 2024 including the development and"
"introduction of replacement coatings  with major OEMs. LAMT is actively working with its customers on the testing, acceptance and incorporation into use of the replacement coatings and is on  track to meet its phase-out date.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 94 ¹ Calculated using the financial control approach. ² Linde reports Scope 3 emissions from its 7 most relevant categories. See the SDR for more information on our Scope 3 reporting.  ³ This figure includes non-renewable fuels"
"only. Linde did not consume any renewable fuel.  ⁴ Low carbon includes both active (generated or purchased through a PPA) and passive (grid supplied) sourcing. Low carbon includes all forms of renewable electricity as well as nuclear. Metric Unit 2021 2022 2023 2024 Innovation  Investment in internal decarbonization   $ million  n/a n/a n/a $169 R&D budget for decarbonization  % of total R&D  budget  27 39 47 47 Revenue from Sustainability Portfolio  $ billion $15 $16 $17 $16 % Revenue from"
"Sustainability  Portfolio  % of total revenue  55 54 55 54 Sustainable productivity $ million $187 $215 $267 $259 Customer GHG benefits enabled by  select Linde applications  Million MT CO₂e    88 90 91 96 GHG Emissions  GHG Intensity (over EBITDA)  Million MT CO₂e/$  billion  3.9 (-26.2%)  3.6 (-33%)  3.2 (-40%)  2.9 (-45%) GHG Intensity (over revenue)   MT CO₂e/thousand  USD Revenue   1.3 1.16 1.16 1.13 Total Scope 1 + Scope 2 emissions¹  Million MT CO₂e  39.894 38.794 38.144 37.413 Scope 1"
"(direct) GHG emissions   Million MT CO₂e   16.321 16.813 16.582 16.470 Scope 2 (indirect) GHG emissions  (market-based)  Million MT CO₂e  23.573 21.981 21.562 20.943 Scope 3 GHG emissions²  Million MT CO₂e  21.261 25.859 25.394 24.367 Fuel- and energy-related activities  Million MT CO₂e  7.43 6.99 5.924 5.657 Purchased goods and services  Million MT CO₂e  4.25 3.774 3.913 3.802 Capital goods  Million MT CO₂e  0.81 1.036 0.704 0.991 Investments  Million MT CO₂e  5.45 2.63 2.611 2.518 Business"
"travel  Million MT CO₂e  0.021 0.016 0.02 0.02 Downstream leased assets  Million MT CO₂e  2.52 2.655 2.756 2.393 Downstream distribution (contractor driving)  Million MT CO₂e  0.01 0.097 0.01 Energy Use  Energy consumption  Million MWh  72.943 71.671 71.404 72.668 Fuel consumption³  Million MWh  21.012 19.707 20.134 20.085 Steam consumption  Million MWh  9.152 10.027 9.66 10.102 Electricity consumption  Million MWh  42.779 41.937 41.609 42.492 Actively sourced renewable energy   Million MWh"
"2.78 3.316 4.792 6.010 Low carbon⁴ electricity  Million MWh  17 18 18 20 Renewable energy portion of  electricity (active only) %  6.5 7.9 11.5 14 Low-carbon portion of electricity  (active + grid)  %  40 43 43 47 Climate Change Sustainability Data Summary  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 95 Metric Unit 2021 2022 2023 2024 Water  Water⁵ withdrawn Million m3 971.6 1053.9 1059.7 1108.9 Fresh water withdrawn Million m3 457.2 453.8 451.2 448.1 Water consumed Million m3 80.4 88.3 85.7 87.9"
"Fresh water consumed Million m3 99.5 103.9 97.9 101.8 Water Management Plans (WMPs) at hi-hi sites # of sites in  scope, % WMPs  implemented 67 (36%) 64 (48%) 64 (61%) 89 (25%) Water Intensity, hi-hi sites Million m3 per  production unit n/a n/a n/a 1.1 Waste Non-hazardous waste generated MT 47,769 55,000 50,300 51,000 Non-hazardous waste disposed MT 15,939 21,200 19,900 18,300 Non-hazardous waste recycled MT 31,830 33,900 30,400 32,700 Hazardous waste⁶ generated MT 25,500 26,610 31,800 27,500"
"Hazardous waste disposed MT 21,500 18,510 23,640 20,100 Hazardous waste recycled (marketable only) MT 4,000 4,050 4,080 3,700 Zero waste sites # 360 371 421 451 Air Emissions (non-GHG)  NOx emissions MT 12,236 9,569 9,079 8,012 SOx emissions MT 714 779 795 699 VOC emissions MT 948 931 985 985 Metric Unit 2021 2022 2023 2024 Operational Safety  Lost workday case rate (LWCR),  employees and contractors # of incidents per  200,000 hours worked 0.22 0.19 0.09 0.09 Total recordable case rate (TRCR),"
"employees and contractors # of incidents per  200,000 hours worked 0.54 0.49 0.37 0.36 Fatalities, employees and contractors # 4 1 1 1 Vehicle Safety Commercial vehicle incident rate (CVIR),  employees and contractors # of incidents per  million km driven 2.08 2.24 2.21 2.22 Process Safety Tier 1 process safety events  # of events per  200,000 hours worked  0.039 0.026 0.026 0.019 Environmental Safety and Health ⁵Includes fresh water + industrial/recycled water. Does not include brackish water."
"⁶Hazardous waste values include waste defined as hazardous by regulatory authorities in each country we operate.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 96 Metric Unit 2021 2022 2023 2024 Employment Total employees # 72,327 65,010 66,323 65,289 Voluntary turnover % 6.7 8.4 6.7 5.5 Community Community engagement projects  completed  # 389 489 590 821 People and Community  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 97 The Letter from the auditor follows on pages 98–100.   Assurance 2-5  Linde"
"2024 Sustainable Development Report 98  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 99  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 100  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 101 Linde has reported in accordance with the GRI Standards for the period January 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024. For the Content Index - Essentials Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI  content index has been presented in a way consistent with the requirements for  reporting in accordance with the GRI standards, and"
"that the information in the  index is clearly presented and accessible to the stakeholders. GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Direct Answer OR Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Part Omitted/Reason/Explanation  GRI 1: Foundation 2021 General Disclosures GRI 2: General  Disclosures 2021 Organizational profile 2-1 Organizational details See pages 4 and 5 of the 2024 Annual Report (10K) at: https://assets.linde. com/-/media/global/corporate/corporate/documents/investors/full-year- financial-"
"reports/2024-annual-report-to-shareholders.pdf. 2-2 Entities included in the  organization’s sustainability  reporting See Sustainable Development Report, page 13. 2-3 Reporting period, frequency  and contact point Linde reports annually, and this report covers the period from January 1, 2024  to December 31, 2024.   Contact:                   Erin Catapano, Vice President, Sustainability, Linde                   Email: erin.catapano@linde.com or Telephone: 203-837-2268 2-4 Restatements of"
"information See Sustainable Development Report, page 14. 2-5 External assurance See Sustainable Development Report, page 97.   2-6 Activities, value chain and  other business relationships See Sustainable Development Report, pages 8-11; see also 204-1, pages  45-46. See also pages 4–5 of the 2024 Annual Report (10K) at: https://assets.linde. com/-/media/global/corporate/corporate/documents/investors/full-year- financial-reports/2024-annual-report-to-shareholders.pdf       See also pages  17-22"
"of the 2024 Annual Report (10K) at: https://assets. linde.com/-/media/global/corporate/corporate/documents/investors/full- year-financial-reports/2024-annual-report-to-shareholders.pdf. 2-7 Employees See Sustainable Development Report, Section 401-1, pages 69-70; see also  page 6 of the 2024 Annual Report (10K) at: https://assets.linde.com/-/ media/global/corporate/corporate/documents/investors/full-year-financial- reports/2024-annual-report-to-shareholders.pdf. 2-8 Workers who are not"
"employees See Sustainable Development Report Section 204-1, pages 45-46. 2-9 Governance structure and  composition See Sustainable Development Report, page 29. See also https://www.linde. com/about-us/corporate-governance/board-of-directors. 2-10 Nomination and selection of  the highest governance body See pages 16 and 24 of Linde’s Proxy Statement at: https://assets.linde. com/-/media/global/corporate/corporate/documents/investors/full-year- financial-reports/2025-proxy-statement.pdf. 2-11"
"Chair of the highest  governance body See pages 8 and 10-11 of Linde’s Proxy Statement at: https://assets.linde. com/-/media/global/corporate/corporate/documents/investors/full-year- financial-reports/2025-proxy-statement.pdf. 2-12 Role of the highest  governance body in overseeing  the management of impacts See pages 11, 13 and 20 of Linde’s Proxy Statement at: https://assets.linde. com/-/media/global/corporate/corporate/documents/investors/full-year- financial-reports/2025-proxy-statement.pdf."
"Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 102 GRI Standard Disclosure Direct Answer OR Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Part Omitted/Reason/Explanation  GRI 1: Foundation 2021 General Disclosures GRI 2: General  Disclosures 2021 Organizational profile 2-13 Delegation of responsibility  for managing impacts See pages 11 and 20 of Linde’s Proxy Statement at: https://assets.linde. com/-/media/global/corporate/corporate/documents/investors/full-year- financial-reports/2025-proxy-statement.pdf. 2-14 Role"
"of the highest  governance body in  sustainability reporting See page 2 of Linde’s Sustainability Committee’s Charter at https://assets. linde.com/-/media/global/corporate/corporate/documents/corporate- governance/sustainability-committee-charter.pdf. 2-15 Conflicts of interest See pages 15-16 of Linde’s Proxy Statement at: https://assets.linde.com/-/ media/global/corporate/corporate/documents/investors/full-year-financial- reports/2025-proxy-statement.pdf. 2-16 Communication of critical"
"concerns See page 13 of Linde’s Proxy Statement at: https://assets.linde.com/-/ media/global/corporate/corporate/documents/investors/full-year-financial- reports/2025-proxy-statement.pdf.  See also page 2 of Linde’s Audit  Committee’s Charter at https://assets.linde.com/-/media/global/corporate/ corporate/documents/corporate-governance/audit-committee-charter.pdf.   See also Sustainable Development Report page 86. 2-17 Collective knowledge of the  highest governance body See pages 24 and 25-34"
"of Linde’s Proxy Statement at: https://assets.linde. com/-/media/global/corporate/corporate/documents/investors/full-year- financial-reports/2025-proxy-statement.pdf. 2-18 Evaluation of the  performance of the highest  governance body See pages 12-13 of Linde’s Proxy Statement at: https://assets.linde.com/-/ media/global/corporate/corporate/documents/investors/full-year-financial- reports/2025-proxy-statement.pdf. 2-19 Remuneration policies See pages 41-48 and 50 of Linde’s Proxy Statement at:"
"https://assets.linde. com/-/media/global/corporate/corporate/documents/investors/full-year- financial-reports/2025-proxy-statement.pdf. 2-20 Process to determine  remuneration See pages 47-54 of Linde’s Proxy Statement at: https://assets.linde.com/-/ media/global/corporate/corporate/documents/investors/full-year-financial- reports/2025-proxy-statement.pdf. 2-21 Annual total compensation  ratio See pages 79 and 58 of Linde’s Proxy Statement at: https://assets.linde."
"com/-/media/global/corporate/corporate/documents/investors/full-year- financial-reports/2025-proxy-statement.pdf. 2-22 Statement on sustainable  development strategy See Sustainable Development Report, pages 4 and 6. 2-23 Policy commitments See Sustainable Development Report, pages 8 and 13. See also https://www. linde.com/about-us/corporate-values.  See also pages 8 and 9 of the Code of Business Integrity at https://assets. linde.com/-/media/global/corporate/corporate/documents/compliance-"
"policies/code-of-business-integrity-822.pdf. See also Linde’s Human Rights Policy at https://www.linde.com/ sustainability/policies-and-position-statements/human-rights-policy. 2-24 Embedding policy  commitments See Sustainable Development Report, page 47.  See also Section 205-2, page  47. 2-25 Processes to remediate  negative impacts See Sustainable Development Report, pages 41, 50 and 69. 2-26 Mechanisms for seeking  advice and raising concerns See Linde’s Integrity Line at"
"https://secure.ethicspoint.eu/domain/media/ en/gui/36879/index.html. 2-27 Compliance with laws and  regulations See Sustainable Development Report, pages 52 and 93. 2-28 Membership associations See Sustainable Development Report, page 35. 2-29 Approach to stakeholder  engagement See Sustainable Development Report, pages 32-34 and 36-37.   2-30 Collective bargaining  agreements See Sustainable Development Report, Section 402-1, page 72.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 103 GRI Standard"
"Disclosure Direct Answer OR Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Part Omitted/Reason/Explanation  Material Topics GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-1 Process to determine  material topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 15. 3-2 List of material topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 40, 50 and 68. Economic Performance GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 40-41.  GRI 201: Economic  Performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic"
"value  generated and distributed See Sustainable Development Report, pages 42. 201-2 Financial implications and  other risks and opportunities due  to climate change See Sustainable Development Report, page 44. 201-3 Defined benefit plan  obligations and other retirement  plans See Sustainable Development Report, page 44. 201-4 Financial assistance  received from government See Sustainable Development Report, page 44. Market Presence GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material"
"topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 40-41. GRI 202: Market Presence  2016 202-1 Ratios of standard entry  level wage by gender compared  to local minimum wage See Sustainable Development Report, page 44. 202-2 Proportion of senior  management hired from the local  community See Sustainable Development Report, page 44. Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 40-41. GRI 203: Indirect  Economic"
"Impacts 2016 203-1 Infrastructure investments  and services supported See Sustainable Development Report, page 44.   203-2 Significant indirect  economic impacts See Sustainable Development Report, page 45. Procurement Practices GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 40-41. GRI 204: Procurement  Practices 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on  local suppliers See Sustainable Development Report, pages 45-46. Anti-corruption GRI 3:"
"Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 40-41. GRI 205: Anti-corruption  2016 205-1 Operations assessed for  risks related to corruption See Sustainable Development Report, page 47. 205-2 Communication and  training about anti-corruption  policies and procedures See Sustainable Development Report, page 47. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of  corruption and actions taken See Sustainable Development Report, page 47. Anti-competitive Behavior GRI"
"3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 40-41. GRI 206: Anti-competitive  Behavior 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti- competitive behavior, anti-trust  and monopoly practices See Sustainable Development Report, page 47.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 104 GRI Standard Disclosure Direct Answer OR Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Part Omitted/Reason/Explanation  Tax GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics"
"See Sustainable Development Report, pages 40-41. GRI 207: Tax 2019 207-1 Approach to tax See Sustainable Development Report, page 43. 207-2 Tax governance, control,  and risk management See Sustainable Development Report, page 43. 207-3 Stakeholder engagement  and management of concerns  related to tax See Sustainable Development Report, page 43. 207-4 Country-by-country  reporting See pages 17 and 57 of the 2024 Annual Report (10K) at: https://assets."
"linde.com/-/media/global/corporate/corporate/documents/investors/full- year-financial-reports/2024-annual-report-to-shareholders.pdf. Environmental  Materials GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 50-51. GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight  or volume See Sustainable Development Report, page 52-53. 301-2 Recycled input materials  used See Sustainable Development Report, pages 53. 301-3 Reclaimed products and"
"their packaging materials See Sustainable Development Report, page 53. Energy GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 50-51. GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption  within the organization See Sustainable Development Report, pages 54-55. 302-2 Energy consumption  outside of the organization See Sustainable Development Report, page 55. 302-3 Energy intensity See Sustainable Development Report, page 55. 302-4 Reduction of"
"energy  consumption See Sustainable Development Report, page 55. Water GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 50-51. GRI 303: Water and  Effluents 2018 303-1 Interactions with water as  a shared resource See Sustainable Development Report, page 55. 303-2 Management of water  discharge-related impacts See Sustainable Development Report, page 55. 303-3 Water withdrawal  See Sustainable Development Report, pages 55-57. 303-4 Water"
"discharge See Sustainable Development Report, pages 55-57. 303-5 Water consumption See Sustainable Development Report, pages 55-57.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 105 GRI Standard Disclosure Direct Answer OR Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Part Omitted/Reason/Explanation  Biodiversity GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 50-51. GRI 304: Biodiversity  2016 304-1 Operational sites owned,  leased, managed in, or adjacent"
"to, protected areas and areas of  high biodiversity value outside  protected areas See Sustainable Development Report, page 57. 304-2 Significant impacts of  activities, products and services  on biodiversity See Sustainable Development Report, page 57. 304-3 Habitats protected or  restored See Sustainable Development Report, page 57. 304-4 IUCN Red List species and  national conservation list species  with habitats in areas affected by  operations See Sustainable Development Report, page 57."
"Emissions GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 50-51. GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG  emissions See Sustainable Development Report, pages 58-59. 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2)  GHG emissions See Sustainable Development Report, pages 58-59. 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3)  GHG emissions See Sustainable Development Report, pages 58-63. 305-4 Greenhouse gas (GHG)  emissions intensity See Sustainable Development"
"Report, pages 58 and 63. 305-5 Reduction of greenhouse  gas (GHG) emissions See Sustainable Development Report, page 58 and 64. 305-7 NOX, SOX, and other  significant air emissions See Sustainable Development Report, page 64. Effluents and Waste GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 50-51. GRI 306: Waste 2020 306-1 Waste generation and  significant waste-related impacts See Sustainable Development Report, pages 64-65. 306-2"
"Management of significant  waste-related impacts See Sustainable Development Report, pages 64-65. 306-3 Waste generated See Sustainable Development Report, pages 64-65. 306-4 Waste diverted from  disposal See Sustainable Development Report, pages 64-65. 306-5 Waste directed to disposal See Sustainable Development Report, pages 64-65. Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 40-41. GRI 308: Supplier"
"Environmental  Assessment 2016 308-1 New suppliers that were  screened using environmental  criteria See Sustainable Development Report, page 65. 308-2 Negative environmental  impacts in the supply chain and  actions taken See Sustainable Development Report, page 65.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 106 GRI Standard Disclosure Direct Answer OR Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Part Omitted/Reason/Explanation  Social  Employment GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics"
"See Sustainable Development Report, pages 68-69.  GRI 401: Employment  2016 401-1 New employee hires and  employee turnover See Sustainable Development Report, page 69-70. Partial omission. 401-1(a): Total number  of new hires is disclosed, but not by age,  gender or region. Rates of new hires are  not disclosed, by age, gender, or region.  401-1(b): Also, voluntary turnover is  disclosed, but not reported otherwise or  by age group or gender or region.  Reason: Confidentiality constraints."
"Linde considers additional information  regarding human resources data as  business confidential and does not  disclose this publicly. 401-2 Benefits provided to full- time employees that are not  provided to temporary or part- time employees See Sustainable Development Report, page 71. 401-3 Parental leave See Sustainable Development Report, page 71. Labor/Management Relations GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 68-69. GRI"
"402: Labor/  Management Relations  2016 402-1 Minimum notice periods  regarding operational changes See Sustainable Development Report, page 72. Occupational Health and Safety GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 68-69. GRI 403: Occupational  Health and Safety 2018 403-1 Occupational health and  safety management system See Sustainable Development Report, pages 68-69. 403-2 Hazard identification,  risk assessment, and incident"
"investigation See Sustainable Development Report, pages 68-69. 403-3 Occupational health  services See Sustainable Development Report, pages 68-69 and 71. 403-4 Worker participation,  consultation, and communication  on occupational health and  safety See Sustainable Development Report, pages 68-69 and 72.  403-5 Worker training on  occupational health and safety See Sustainable Development Report, pages 68-69 and 75-76. 403-6 Promotion of worker  health See Sustainable Development Report, pages"
"68-69 and 71-72. 403-7 Prevention and mitigation  of occupational health and  safety impacts directly linked by  business relationships See Sustainable Development Report, pages 68-69. 403-9 Work-related injuries See Sustainable Development Report, pages 72-74.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 107 GRI Standard Disclosure Direct Answer OR Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Part Omitted/Reason/Explanation  Training and Education GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics"
"See Sustainable Development Report, pages 68-69. GRI 404: Training and  Education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training  per year per employee See Sustainable Development Report, pages 74-77. 404-2 Programs for upgrading  employee skills and transition  assistance programs See Sustainable Development Report, page 77. 404-3 Percentage of employees  receiving regular performance  and career development reviews See Sustainable Development Report, pages 77. Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 3:"
"Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 68-69. GRI 405: Diversity and  Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance  bodies and employees See Sustainable Development Report, pages 78-79. Partial omission. The following is not  disclosed: 405-1(b)(ii) Percentage of  employees by age in breakdown other  than total population and 405-1(b)(iii)  Percentage of employees by minority  group, other than in executive leadership.  Reason:"
"Confidentiality constraints.  Linde considers additional information  regarding human resources data as  business confidential and does not  disclose this publicly. 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and  remuneration of women to men See Sustainable Development Report, page 79. Non-discrimination GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 68-69. GRI 406: Non- discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination  and corrective actions"
"taken See Sustainable Development Report, pages 79-80. Partial omission. The following are not  disclosed: 406-1(a) and 406-1(b) The  number of discrimination incidents  and their corrective actions is not  completely reported, separately within  the total number of hotline reports.  Reason: Confidentiality constraints.  Linde considers additional information  regarding human resources data as  business confidential and does not  disclose this publicly. Freedom of Association and Collective"
"Bargaining GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 68-69. GRI 407: Freedom of  Association and Collective  Bargaining 2016 407-1 Operations and suppliers  in which the right to freedom  of association and collective  bargaining may be at risk See Sustainable Development Report, page 80. Child Labor GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 68-69. GRI 408: Child Labor"
"2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers  at significant risk for incidents of  child labor See Sustainable Development Report, page 80.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 108 GRI Standard Disclosure Direct Answer OR Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Part Omitted/Reason/Explanation  Forced or Compulsory Labor GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 68-69. GRI 409: Forced or  Compulsory Labor 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers  at"
"significant risk for incidents of  forced or compulsory labor See Sustainable Development Report, page 80. Security Practices GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 68-69. GRI 410: Security  Practices 2016 410-1 Security personnel trained  in the organization's human  rights policies or procedures See Sustainable Development Report, page 80. Rights of Indigenous Peoples GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material"
"topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 68-69. GRI 411: Rights of  Indigenous Peoples 2016 411-1 Incidents of violations  involving rights of indigenous  peoples See Sustainable Development Report, page 80. Local Communities GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 68-69. GRI 413: Local  Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local  community engagement, impact  assessments, and development  programs See Sustainable"
"Development Report, page 81-86. 413-2 Operations with significant  actual and potential negative  impacts on local communities See Sustainable Development Report, page 87. Supplier Social Assessment GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 68-69. GRI 414: Supplier Social  Assessment  2016 414-1 New suppliers that were  screened using social criteria See Sustainable Development Report, page 87. 414-2 Negative social impacts  in the"
"supply chain and actions  taken See Sustainable Development Report, pages 87 and 89-90. Public Policy GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 68-69. GRI 415: Public Policy  2016 415-1 Political Contributions See Sustainable Development Report, pages 91. Customer Health and Safety GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 68-69. GRI 416: Customer Health  and Safety"
"2016 416-1 Assessment of the health  and safety impacts of product  and service categories See Sustainable Development Report, page 92-93. 416-2 Incidents of non- compliance concerning the  health and safety impacts of  products and services See Sustainable Development Report, page 93.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 109 GRI Standard Disclosure Direct Answer OR Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Part Omitted/Reason/Explanation  Marketing and Labeling GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3"
"Management of material  topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 68-69. GRI 417: Marketing and  Labeling 2016 417-1 Requirements for product  and service information and  labeling See Sustainable Development Report, page 93. 417-2 Incidents of non- compliance concerning product  and service See Sustainable Development Report, page 93. Customer Privacy GRI 3: Material Topics  2021 3-3 Management of material  topics See Sustainable Development Report, pages 68-69. GRI 418: Customer Privacy"
"2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints  concerning breaches of customer  privacy and losses of customer  data See Sustainable Development Report, page 93.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 110 Linde ISSB/TCFD Index   The Task Force on Climate Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) was dissolved and integrated into the International Sustainability Standards Board  (ISSB)’s IFRS Disclosures. The requirements in IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures integrate, and are consistent with the TCFD’s"
"recommendations.  Linde demonstrates alignment these recommendations in this Index. This index references Linde’s public disclosures on climate change, which can be  found at  www.linde.com and in the following documents, all of which contain information and data from calendar year 2024: Linde’s 2024 Sustainable  Development Report, 2024 Annual Report 10-K, 2025 Notice of Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and Proxy Statement, and 2024 CDP Climate  Change* response. *2024 CDP Climate Change"
"response was released in 2024 and contains 2023 data. Topic Disclosure Linde Response Governance a) Describe the Board’s oversight of  climate-relate risks and opportunities.  →  See the Linde Sustainable Development Report 2024: Governance, pgs. 29-30. →  See 2025 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders & Proxy Statement: Board Role in Risk Oversight, pg 11;  Sustainability Committee, pgs 16-17: Director & Nominee Selection Criteria, pg 20; Strategic and Non- Financial  Performance Goals, pgs."
"55-57; and Strategic Non-financial Business Results, pg. 51-52. → See the Sustainability Committee Charter. b) Describe management’s role in  assessing and managing climate-related  risks and opportunities. →  See the Linde Sustainable Development Report 2024: Governance/ Sustainable Development Governance, pgs.  29-30. →  Linde maintains climate change targets and reports progress against these targets regularly to business  management and annually to Linde’s Board of Directors. See the 2024"
"Annual Report 10-K: Item 7 Management  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Information/ Environmental Matters/ Climate Change, pg. 22-23. Strategy a) Describe the climate-related risks  & opportunities the organization has  identified over the short, medium and  long term. →  See Linde’s 2024 CDP Response: 2.4, C3. →  See Climate Transition Plan. → See the 2024 Annual Report 10-K: Item 1A Risk Factors, pgs. 8-13; and Item 7 Management Discussion and Analysis  of Financial Information/"
"Environmental Matters/ Climate Change, pg. 22-23. →  See the Linde Sustainable Development Report 2024: Climate Change – Challenge & Opportunity, pgs. 19-21. b) Describe the impact of climate- related risks and opportunities on the  organization’s businesses, strategy and  financial planning. → See Linde’s 2024 CDP Response: C3, C5. c) Describe the resilience of the  organization’s strategy, taking into  consideration different climate-related  scenarios, including a 2°C or lower  scenario. →"
"See Climate Transition Plan. Risk and  Impact a) Describe the organization’s processes  for identifying and assessing climate- related risks. →  See Linde’s 2024 CDP Climate Change Response: 2.1-2.2, 2.4. →  See Linde Sustainable Development Report 2024 pgs. 15, 31. → See the 2024 Annual Report 10-K: Item 1A Risk Factors, pgs. 8-13; and Item 7 Management Discussion and Analysis  of Financial Information/ Environmental Matters/ Climate Change, pg. 22-23. b) Describe the organization’s process for"
"managing climate-related risks. →  See Linde’s 2024 CDP Climate Change Response: 2.1-2.2. → 2024 Annual Report 10-K: Item 1A Risk Factors, pgs. 8-13; and Item 7 Management Discussion and Analysis of  Financial Information/ Environmental Matters/ Climate. c) Describe how processes for identifying,  assessing and managing climate-related  risks are integrated into the organization’s  overall risk management. →  See Linde’s 2024 CDP Climate Change Response: 2.1-2.2. Metrics and  Targets a) Disclose"
"the metrics used by the  organization to  assess climate-related risk  and opportunities in line with its strategy  and risk management process. →  See the Linde Sustainable Development Report 2024: Performance Towards Targets pgs. 24-28. b) Disclose scope 1, scope 2, and if  appropriate, scope 3 greenhouse gas  (GHG) emissions, and the related risks. →  See the Linde Sustainable Development Report 2024: pages 58-63. c) Describe the targets used by the  organization to manage climate-related"
"risks and opportunities and performance  against targets. →  See the Linde Sustainable Development Report 2024: Performance Towards Targets pgs. 24-28.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 111 Linde TNFD Index   Linde demonstrates alignment with TNFD recommendations in this Index. Using the disclosure recommendations from the TNFD, this index references  Linde’s public disclosures, which can be found at www.linde.com and in the following documents, all of which contain information and data"
"from  calendar year 2024: Linde’s 2024 Sustainable Development Report, 2024 Annual Report 10-K, 2025 Notice of Annual General Meeting of Shareholders  and Proxy Statement, 2024 CDP Climate Change and Water Security responses*. *2024 CDP Climate Change and Water Security Responses were released in 2024 and contain 2023 data. Topic Disclosure Linde Response Governance A. Board oversight of nature-related dependencies,  impacts, risks and opportunities.         → See Sustainable Development Report"
"2024: Governance, pgs. 29-30.      → See 2025 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders & Proxy Statement: Board Role in Risk  Oversight, pg 11; Sustainability Committee, pg 20; Strategic and Non-Financial Performance  Goals, pgs. 55-57; and Strategic Non-financial Business Results, pg. 51-52. B. Describe management’s role in assessing and  managing nature-related dependencies, impacts, risks  & opportunities.         → See Linde Sustainable Development Report 2024: Governance/Sustainable"
"Development  Governance, pg. 30.        → Linde maintains targets and reports progress against these targets regularly to business  management and annually to Linde’s Board of Directors. See the 2024 Annual Report 10-K: Item  7 Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Information/Environmental Matters/Climate  Change, pgs. 22-23. C. Describe the organization’s human rights policies  and engagement activities, and oversight by the  board and management, with respect to Indigenous  Peoples,"
"Local Communities, affected and other  stakeholders, in the organization’s assessment of and  response to, nature- related dependencies, impacts,  risks and opportunities.        → See Sustainable Development Report 2024: pgs. 84-93.          → See Climate Transition Plan. Strategy A. Describes the nature-related dependencies,  impacts, risks and opportunities the organization has  identified over the short, medium and long term (and  their location in the value chain).         → See Linde’s"
"2024 CDP Response: 3.1, 3.6.      → See 2024 Annual Report 10-K: Item 7 Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial  Information/ Environmental Matters/ Climate Change, pgs. 22-23.          → See 2024 Sustainable Development Report: Climate Change – Challenge & Opportunity, pgs.  19-21 and Environmental Topics, pgs. 49-66.          → Linde directs philanthropic donations towards initiatives with positive benefits towards the  environment, See 2024 Sustainable Development Report: pg. 43 and"
"83-88. B. Describe the effect nature- related dependencies,  impacts, risks & opportunities have had on the  organization’s business model, value chain, strategy  and financial planning, as well as any transition plans  or analysis in place.      → See 2024 CDP Response: 2.2, 3.1, 3.6.         → See Linde Sustainable Development Report 2024 pgs. 15, 19-21.         → See Climate Transition Plan.          → See also Supplier Code of Conduct and Conflict Minerals Policy. C. Describe the resilience"
"of the organization’s  strategy to nature- related risks & opportunities,  taking into consideration different scenarios.          → See 2024 CDP Response 3.1.    → See Climate Transition Plan.          → See 2024 Sustainable Development Report pgs. 25-28. D. Disclose the locations of assets and/ or activities  in the organization’s direct operations and, where  possible, upstream and downstream value chain that  meet the criteria for priority locations.         → See Sustainable Development"
"Report 2024: Implementing Water Management Plans pg 26.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 112 TNFD Index continued Topic Disclosure Linde Response Risk and  Impact A. (i) Describe the organization’s processes for  identifying, assessing and prioritizing nature-related  dependencies, impacts, risks and opportunities in its  direct operations. (ii) Describe the organizations processes for  identifying, assessing and prioritizing nature-related  dependencies, impacts, risks and"
"opportunities in its  upstream and downstream value chains.      → See Linde’s 2024 CDP Response: 2.2, 2.4, 3.1.         → See 2024 Sustainable Development Report: pgs. 15, 31.         → See Climate Transition Plan.          → See Linde’s Supplier Code of Conduct and Conflict Minerals Policy. B. Describe the organization’s process for managing  nature-related dependencies, impacts, risks &  opportunities.         → See 2024 Annual Report 10-K: Item 7 Management Discussion and Analysis of"
"Financial  Information/ Environmental Matters/ Climate Change, pg. 22-23.   → See Linde’s 2024 CDP Response: 2.2, 3.1.      → See Climate Transition Plan.          → See 2024 Sustainable Development Report: pg. 31 and pgs. 56-58. C. Describe how processes for identifying, assessing,  prioritizing and monitoring nature-related risks are  integrated into and inform the organization’s overall  risk management processes.        → See 2024 Annual Report 10-K: Item 7 Management Discussion and Analysis"
"of Financial  Information/ Environmental Matters/ Climate Change, pg. 22-23.   → See 2024 Sustainable Development Report: pg. 31.      → See Linde’s 2024 CDP Response: 2.2.   → See Climate Transition Plan. Metrics and  Targets A. Disclose the metrics used by the organization to  assess and manage material nature-related risks  and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk  management process.     → See 2024 Sustainable Development Report: pg. 25. B. Disclose the metrics used by the"
"organization to  assess & manage dependencies and impacts on  nature.    → See 2024 Sustainable Development Report: Environmental Topics pgs. 49-66. C. Describe the targets & goals used by the  organization to manage nature- related  dependencies, impacts, risks & opportunities and its  performance against these.       → See 2024 Sustainable Development Report: pgs. 18, 25-28.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 113 Linde SASB Index   Using the disclosure recommendations outlined in the"
"sustainability accounting standard for the chemical industry, issued by the Sustainability Accounting  Standards Board (SASB), this index references Linde’s public disclosures to investors on material, decision-useful sustainability information that are  available at www.linde.com. References include the following documents, all of which were issued in 2025 and contain information and data from calendar  year 2024: Linde’s 2024 Sustainable Development Report, 2024 Annual Report 10-K, and 2024"
"CDP Climate Change and Water Security responses*.  *2024 CDP Climate Change and Water Security Responses were released in 2024 and contain 2023 data. Topic Accounting Metric Code Linde Response Greenhouse Gas  Emissions Gross global scope 1 emissions, percentage  covered under emission-limiting regulations. RT-CH- 110a.1          → See Linde’s 2024 CDP Response C7 Environmental Performance - Climate Change  and 3.5.2.       → See the Linde Sustainable Development Report 2024: Environmental"
"Topics GRI  305-1, 305-4 and 305-5, pgs. 58-64. Discussion of long-term and short- term  strategy or plan to manage Scope 1  emissions, emissions reduction targets,  and an analysis of performance against  those targets. RT-CH- 110a.2   → See the Linde Sustainable Development Report 2024: Climate Change – Challenge  & Opportunity, pgs. 19-21; Performance Towards Targets, pgs. 24-28. In 2021, Linde  announced an absolute climate change target: to reduce Scopes 1 and 2 emissions  by 35% by 2035."
"This managed target has a base year of 2021. Performance  against this target is reported in the Sustainable Development Report.          → In October 2022, Linde’s 2035 absolute GHG reduction target was approved as  a science- based GHG emissions reduction target by the Science Based Targets  Initiative. Air Quality Air emissions of the following pollutants: (1) NOX (excluding N₂O) (2) SOX (3) Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) (4) Hazardous air pollutants (HAPs) RT-CH- 120a.1         → For NOx,"
"SOx and VOC emissions, see the Linde Sustainable Development Report  2024: Environmental Topics GRI 305-7, pg. 64.   → Linde does not report HAPs as these emissions are not considered material. Energy  Management (1) Total energy consumed (2) Percentage grid electricity (3) Percentage renewable (4) Total self-generated energy Note to RT-CH-130a.1 – The entity shall  discuss its efforts to reduce energy  consumption and/or improve energy  efficiency throughout the production  processes RT-CH-"
"130a.1      → See Linde’s 2024 CDP Response: 7.73.4, 7.16, C7 Environmental Performance -  Climate Change.          → See the Linde Sustainable Development Report 2024: Optimize operational energy  use and GHG emissions, pg. 25; Environmental Topics GRI 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, 302- 4, pgs. 54-55. Water  Management (1) Total water withdrawn (2) Total water consumed Percentage of  each in regions with High or Extremely High  Baseline Water Stress RT-CH- 140a.1         → See the Linde Sustainable"
"Development Report 2024: Environmental Topics GRI  303-1, 303-3, pgs. 55-57.        → See Linde’s 2024 CDP Response: 9.2.2, 9.2.4. Number of incidents of non- compliance  associated with water quality permits,  standards, and regulations. RT-CH- 140a.2        → See Linde’s 2024 CDP Response: 3.3. Description of water management risks and  discussion of strategies and practices to  mitigate those risks. RT-CH- 140a.3         → See Linde’s 2024 CDP Water Security Response:  2.2-2.5 3.1, 5.1."
"Hazardous  Waste  Management Amount of hazardous waste generated,  percentage recycled Note to RT-CH-150a.1  – The entity shall disclose the legal or  regulatory framework(s) used to define  hazardous waste and recycled hazardous  waste, and the amounts of waste defined in  accordance with each applicable framework. RT-CH- 150a.1          → See the Linde Sustainable Development Report 2024: Environmental Topics GRI  306-2, pgs. 64-65.       → Linde’s hazardous waste quantities are considered"
"immaterial. Linde defines  hazardous waste according to the laws and regulations applicable to each location. Community  Relations Discussion of engagement processes to  manage risks and opportunities associated  with community interests. RT-CH- 210a.1        → See the Linde Sustainable Development Report 2024: Social Topics GRI 413-1, 413- 2, pgs. 81-86.  Linde 2024 Sustainable Development Report 114 SASB Index continued Topic Accounting Metric Code Linde Response Workforce  Health & Safety (1)"
"Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) and  (2) fatality rate for (a) direct employees and  (b) contract employees RT-CH- 320a.1        → See the Linde Sustainable Development Report 2024: Performance Towards  Targets, pgs. 26-27 (Safety targets); Social Topics GRI 403-9, pgs. 72-74. Description of efforts to assess, monitor, and  reduce exposure of employees and contract  workers to long-term (chronic) health risks. RT-CH- 320a.2      → See the Linde Sustainable Development Report 2024: Social"
"Management  Approach, pgs. 68-69; and GRI 403-9, pgs. 72-74. Product Design  for Use-Phase  Efficiency Revenue from products designed for use-  phase resource efficiency. RT-CH- 410a.1    → See the Linde Sustainable Development Report 2024: About Linde/Business  Model, pgs. 9-12. Safety &  Environmental  Stewardship of  Chemicals (1) Percentage of products that contain  Globally Harmonized System of Classification  and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS) Category 1  and 2 Health and Environmental"
"Hazardous  Substances. (2) Percentage of such products that have  undergone a hazard assessment. RT-CH- 410b.1        → 100% of Linde’s products undergo a hazard assessment and a Safety Data Sheet  (SDS) is established.   → See the Linde Sustainable Development Report 2024: Social Topics 416-1, pgs.  92-93. Discussion of strategy to (1) manage  chemicals of concern and (2) develop  alternatives with reduced human and/or  environmental impact. RT-CH- 410b.2          → For details on commitment to"
"lower product toxicity, see the Linde Sustainable  Development Report 2024: Social Topics 416-1, pgs. 92-93. Genetically  Modified  Organisms Percentage of products by revenue that  contain genetically modified organisms  (GMOs). RT-CH-410c.1       → Not applicable. Linde is an industrial gases company and does not make or sell  products that contain GMOs. Management  of the Legal  & Regulatory  Environment Discussion of corporate positions related  to government regulations and/or policy"
"proposals that address environmental and  social factors affecting the industry. RT-CH- 530a.1    → For information on Linde’s engagement with policy makers on climate change, see  Linde’s 2024 CDP Response: 4.11.1, 4.11.2.   → For information on Linde’s engagement with government agencies, see the Linde  Sustainable Development Report 2024: Engaging Stakeholders, pg. 32; Social  Topics GRI 415-1, pg. 91. Operational  Safety,  Emergency  Preparedness &  Response Process Safety Incidents Count"
"(PSIC),  Process Safety Total Incident Rate (PSTIR),  and Process Safety Incident Severity Rate  (PSISR). Note to RT-CH-540a.1 – The entity  shall describe incidents with a severity  rating of 1 or 2, including their root  cause, outcomes, and corrective actions  implemented in response. RT-CH- 540a.1          → For Tier 1 Process Safety Incident Rates, see the Linde Sustainable Development  Report 2024: pg. 72-74. Linde does not report PSIC or PSISR publicly. All process  safety incidents are"
"investigated, and corrective measures implemented. Number of transport incidents Note to RT-CH-540a.2 – The entity shall  describe significant transport incidents,  including their root causes, outcomes, and  corrective actions implemented in response. RT-CH- 540a.2   → For performance against the vehicle safety target (Annually achieve a Commercial  Vehicle Incident Rate (CVIR) of <2.5/million kilometers), plus scope and actions we  take to maintain high performance, see the Linde Sustainable"
"Development Report  2024: Performance Towards Targets, pg. 26-27 (safety targets). See also Social  Topics GRI 403-9, pgs. 72-74, for additional transport safety data and reporting. Activity Metric Code Linde Response Production  by reportable  segment Note to RT-CH-000.A – Production should be  disclosed for each of the entity’s reportable  segments, where products and service  segments are determined according to FASB  ASC 280-10 and production is reported as  weight for solid products and"
"volume for  liquid and gas products. RT-CH- 000.A        → Linde reports information for each of its main reporting segments in its Annual  Report 10-K, pgs. 31-35.     → Further segment and product information is considered business confidential.   Making our world more productive Linde plc Forge, 43 Church Street West, Woking, Surrey, GU21 6HT, United Kingdom 10 Riverview Drive, Danbury, Connecticut 06810, USA linde.com P-15-756 Linde is a company name used by Linde plc and its affiliates. The"
"Linde logo, the Linde word and TRADEMARK are trademarks or registered trademarks of Linde plc or its affiliates. Copyright © 2025. Linde plc. Safety Inclusion Accountability Integrity Community Our Mission We live our mission of making our world  more productive every day. Through our  high-quality solutions, technologies and  services we are making our customers  more successful and helping to sustain  and protect our planet. Our Vision We are committed to fulfilling our  vision to be the best"
"performing global  industrial gases and engineering  company, where our people deliver  innovative and sustainable solutions for  our customers in a connected world. Our Values Mission, Vision and Values"
