"Corporate Social Responsibility  2 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index 03 Letter from the CEO 04 Who We Are & How We Create Value 14 Governance 17 Safety, Teammates & Community 38 Environmental Performance 53 Policy Engagement 57 GRI Index TABLE OF CONTENTS 2 Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental"
"Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Table of Contents  3 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Leon J. Topalian Letter from the CEO Dear Stakeholders:   Steel is an essential building block of our economy and will  continue to be critical in the decades ahead. The steel of the  future will be cleaner than it is today, continuing a trend that  has been underway in"
"the United States for decades. As the  leader in circular steel production, Nucor is well positioned to  meet this demand.    Our company was focused on sustainability long before the  practice was commonplace. As the global leader in making  steel by recycling scrap metal in Electric Arc Furnaces (EAFs),  sustainability has always been a core attribute of our business.  The steps we are taking today to become more efficient and  reduce our environmental impact are a natural evolution of a"
"journey we have been on for more than 60 years.    At Nucor, being a sustainable business starts with being a safe  one. The health, safety and well-being of our 32,000 Nucor  teammates is our most important value. In 2024, our team  achieved the safest year in Nucor history, with the lowest  number of recordable injuries ever. 28 Nucor divisions had zero  recordable injuries, which is also a new record. This outstanding  safety performance is a testament to our teammates’  operational"
"excellence and unwavering commitment to caring  for each other.   We want to continue to raise the bar for the steel industry, with  respect to both safety and environmental stewardship. We  will do this by achieving world class safety performance and  meeting or beating our environmental goals.   As North America’s leading steelmaker, we recognize our  responsibility to also be the leader in sustainability. We were  the first North American steelmaker to establish science-based  greenhouse gas"
"(GHG) targets covering Scopes 1, 2 and 3 emissions.  Achieving these targets requires a multi-faceted approach. In this report you will learn about some of the initiatives we are  pursuing to lower our emissions, including:     •         At our steel mill in Berkeley County, South Carolina, we  have a low-copper shred project that focuses on removing  non-magnetic materials like copper to enhance the quality  and utility of scrap metal, reducing our reliance on high- embodied carbon iron inputs."
"•        At our rebar micro mill in Missouri, we have dramatically  reduced Scope 2 GHG emissions by sourcing  predominantly renewable power and reduced Scope 1  emissions by 90% by immediately casting and hot rolling  steel into its final product.    Innovations like these are not new for us. We have been  innovating since we first started making steel.    Finally, in these pages you will also read about the ways our  company and our teammates are making a positive impact  in the communities"
"where we live and work. Through our  operating divisions and Nucor Charitable Foundation, we  donated more than $20 million to charitable organizations, and  our teammates participate in thousands of volunteer hours  each year.    Thank you to our investors, customers, suppliers, and all  other stakeholders for working with us to take our safety and  environmental performance to the next level.    Leon J. Topalian Chair, President & Chief Executive Officer As North America’s  leading steelmaker,"
"we recognize our  responsibility to  also be the leader in  sustainability.”  4 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index WHO WE ARE & HOW WE CREATE VALUE 4 Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Letter from the CEO Table of Contents  5 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are &"
"How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Nucor entered the steelmaking business in  1969, providing steel to our then-fledgling  steel joist business in South Carolina. Utilizing  revolutionary steelmaking technology, the  Electric Arc Furnace, or EAF, to melt scrap into  new steel using electricity, Nucor grew to supply  its own steel products divisions. Recycling scrap  steel in EAFs, also known as circular steelmaking,"
"gave Nucor an advantage over traditional  integrated steel mills, which use giant blast  furnaces to make steel from raw ore, referred  to as extractive steelmaking. That advantage  continues today. Our business is organized into  three segments: raw materials, steel mills and  steel products.  Nucor’s raw materials segment provides scrap and Direct  Reduced Iron (DRI), both of which feed our steel mills, and  acquires additional metallic inputs from the marketplace,  as needed. Utilizing"
"circular steelmaking via EAFs, our steel  mills segment produces a wide range of primary steel  shapes for sale to outside customers and to our downstream  steel products businesses.     Approximately 20% of our steel mill production is converted  into a wide range of fabricated products by Nucor’s  downstream product groups, including: structural steel  tubing, electrical conduit, joists and joist girders, steel  deck, steel fasteners, fabricated rebar, steel grating, metal  buildings,"
"insulated metal panels, racking systems, overhead  doors, utility towers and structures, wire and wire mesh,  piling and foundation products. This circularity and vertical  integration, from primarily recycled raw materials to final  product, allows Nucor to operate more sustainably and  provide the supply chain transparency that our customers  are increasingly interested in – enhancing our position as a  supplier of choice in our industry.   6 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are &"
"How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Figures are approximate percentages of total external shipments of steel and steel products for 2024. Other 9% Automotive & Trucking 11% Consumer Durables 2% Machinery & Industrial Equipment 13% Other Transportation & Logistics 6% Energy 9% 1% Residential Construction 6% Non-Building Construction 43% Non-Residential Construction End-Use Markets Served In 2024, Nucor had revenue of"
"$30.7 billion and earnings of $2  billion, or $8.46 per diluted share. While our revenue and earnings  were down compared to the historic highs we achieved over the  previous three years, our 2024 earnings are still well above our  historical average.   The safety and well-being of our teammates - Nucor’s true value  creators - remains our highest priority. We finished the year with  an Injury and Illness (I/l) rate of 0.77, making it our safest year  in history, but we are not satisfied with"
"our progress and have  numerous initiatives underway so that we can further improve and  attain world class safety performance.   With the strongest balance sheet and credit ratings in the North  American metals sector, and the most diverse product offerings  among all U.S. listed steel products manufacturers, the Nucor team  remains well positioned to create more value for all our stakeholders.   Steel is increasingly recognized as an essential material to our nation’s  general economic growth"
"and development, as well as for climate  change resilience and energy transition. We are building out Nucor’s  portfolio of solutions so that we can readily respond to accelerating  efforts aimed at:   •     Rebuilding American infrastructure to make it more resilient.  •        Repowering and decarbonizing the domestic energy sector. •      Reshoring manufacturing to lessen American dependence on  far-off global supply chains. •       Enabling rapid build-out of data center infrastructure to"
"unleash  the benefits of advanced technologies, such as artificial  intelligence (AI).   And we are increasingly confident that our reputation as both the  leading domestic producer of steel products and an employer of  choice, along with our low GHG emissions intensity and recycling- based business model, makes Nucor the preferred partner for both  government and private sector customers pursuing these objectives.   2024 Review & Outlook  7 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How"
"We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index From automobiles to data centers to modern high-rise construction,  steel is a ubiquitous component of the economy of the future.  Its flexibility, strength, aesthetics and relatively low cost have  made steel the choice of architects, engineers, manufacturers and  consumers for more than a century.    The markets and customers that Nucor serves are becoming increasingly aware and"
"concerned about the environmental and social impact of their supply chains. And Nucor’s  United States based EAF steelmaking facilities generate some of the lowest greenhouse  gas (GHG) equivalent emissions per ton in the global steel industry.    A large percentage of the steel Nucor produces eventually makes it into a wide range of  construction applications. From nuts and bolts to the beams underpinning the nation’s  tallest skyscrapers, Nucor steel can be found on almost every construction"
"site in  America. Construction of warehouses for goods distribution, as well as data centers, have  been among the fastest growing markets for our products in recent years and continue to  represent important construction market sub-segments for Nucor.   Other important end-use markets for Nucor include automotive, energy, machinery, heavy  and agricultural equipment and transportation. Although each of these industries utilize  a different mix of steel products, grades, and sizes, they all"
"require a steel producer that  understands and anticipates the changing demands of the market.     We continue to invest in new products and new capabilities, to build on our industry  leadership position by sustainably meeting both current and emerging market needs.  Over the past five years, Nucor has invested approximately $16 billion expanding  our product portfolio to include more value-added steel products and steelmaking  capabilities. Throughout Nucor’s history, we have served as a"
"strategic partner for  our customers — applying the latest innovations, staying abreast of design trends,  and using market analytics to develop products that help solve their most pressing  challenges. We regularly bring customers new opportunities to drive progress and  growth together.   7 Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Letter from the CEO Table of Contents  8 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO"
"Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index BAR BEAM CASTING COLD FINISH CORPORATE OFFICE FASTENER GRATING INSULATED PANELS INTERNATIONAL JOIST & DECKING METAL BUILDINGS PLATE OVERHEAD DOORS WAREHOUSE SYSTEMS RAW MATERIALS REBAR FAB & INSTALL SHEET STEEL FOUNDATIONS FLAT ROLLED PROCESSING TUBE UTILITY STRUCTURES WIRING  9 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety,"
"Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Results 2022 2023 2024 Net Sales $41.5B $34.7B $30.7B Steel Shipped 23.2M Tons 23.3M Tons 23.1M Tons EPS $28.79 $18.00 $8.46 Free Cash Flow $8.1B $4.9B $0.8B Sheet Bar Structural Plate Building Systems Deck Joist Tubular Products Rebar Fabrication Other Downstream Raw Materials 38% 23% 2% 7% 7% 1% 5% 8% 3% 4% Diversified Product Mix Total Tons Sold to Outside Customers in 2024 1% 100 200 300 400 500 dollars year 22 4th Q"
"22 23 4th Q 23 24 4th Q 24 Average Scrap and Scrap Substitute Cost Per Gross Ton Used 6,000 12,000 18,000 24,000 30,000 36,000 thousands of tons 20 year 250 500 750 1,000 1,250 1,500 21 22 23 dollars Total Tons Sold to Outside Customers Average Sales Price Per Ton 24  10 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index From the time we entered the steel business more than 60 years"
"ago, Nucor has been  focused on producing steel sustainably. When our first EAF roared to life in Darlington,  South Carolina, Nucor ushered in a new era of steelmaking in the U.S. and radically  transformed the industry. The impact is still felt today, with approximately 70% of U.S.  steel production now coming from EAFs, making the U.S. one of the cleanest places  in the world to make steel. And we are continuing to push our sustainability efforts  further by looking to close the recycling"
"loop through efforts such as Nucor Industrial  Recycling. The goal of Nucor Industrial Recycling is to work with our customers to  find new and better ways to return steel scrap directly from manufacturing facilities  to steel mills for circularity via remelting. In 2024, we recycled approximately 20.3  million net tons of scrap steel.  Working with Our Customers to Create the Circular Steel Economy SCRAP METAL RECYCLING Nearly 70 recycling locations process scrap OR directly supply industrial"
"scrap, end-of-life railcars and vehicles for Approximately 200 Nucor steel products facilities used by DOZENS of end-use markets. 26 Nucor steel mills make sheet, plate, beams and bar steel for MANUFACTURING/ END USE PRODUCTS EAF STEELMAKING INDUSTRIAL RECYCLING Vertical Integration & Product Lifecycle  11 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Made for Good In 2024,"
"Nucor continued its “Made for Good” campaign,  which highlights our leadership and partnerships across a  broad range of industries to develop innovative solutions  for industrial scale circularity, decarbonization and the  advancement of clean energy.    As a steel industry leader, we continuously challenge ourselves  to further reduce our emissions. Our sustainability efforts  are also being driven by our customers as we partner with  them on their own sustainability journeys. Through"
"partnership  and purposeful innovation, we are providing both steel and  solutions that empower our customers to successfully achieve  their business and sustainability goals.    “Made for Good” invites customers, investors, industry  stakeholders and policymakers to partner with Nucor in  tackling the challenge of decarbonization. 2024 featured  our partnership with Helion, a company focused on building  the world’s first fusion power plant. This story, along with the  campaign’s other case"
"studies, explores Nucor’s investments  in next generation energy sources, such as advanced nuclear  fusion, Nucor’s industry leading Econiq™ low embodied carbon  certification, and other innovative products.   For more than five decades, Nucor has produced steel  using the most sustainable technologies commercially  available. Today, we are focused on pursuing new technologies  and methods to further cut emissions. The economy of  tomorrow is being built with steel and the steel it’s built with"
"matters. Together, we’re working to ensure that everything we  make is “Made for Good”.    Learn more at nucor.com/madeforgood  12 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Powering the Digital Economy  In April of 2024, Nucor acquired Southwest Data Products, Inc. (SWDP), a manufacturer and installer of data center  infrastructure based in San Bernardino, California. This"
"acquisition expands Nucor’s presence in the rapidly growing  data center market and adds approximately 147 teammates to the Nucor family. In addition, Nucor launched Nucor  Data Systems, a new business unit dedicated to serving data center infrastructure customers with comprehensive,  steel-based solutions.   With the addition of SWDP, Nucor is now uniquely positioned to provide a full suite of sustainable steel products  to support data center construction and expansion. Manufactured using"
"Nucor’s low-embodied-carbon steel, our  offerings include: rebar, steel foundations, structural steel, joists, grating, decking, insulated wall and roof panels,  containment and pathway support structures, racks, wall units, cabinets, cages, overhead doors, sprinkler pipe,  conduit and fasteners. By leveraging our circular, recycling-based steel production process, we ensure that the  digital economy is being built with sustainable materials that reduce environmental impact. The integration of"
"SWDP’s expertise in airflow containment structures, enclosures and installation services further strengthens our  ability to serve hyperscale cloud and colocation data centers.   The SWDP acquisition aligns with Nucor’s “Expand Beyond” strategy, which focuses on investing in steel-centric  businesses beyond traditional steel production. SWDP’s location near Nucor Warehouse Systems’ production facility  in Southern California will enhance operational efficiencies and growth opportunities.   As"
"demand for artificial intelligence, cloud computing and video streaming accelerates, Nucor is well-positioned to  support the infrastructure needs of these transformative industries. Through strategic investments like SWDP and  Nucor Data Systems, we continue to drive innovation, sustainability and growth in the digital economy.   Econiq™ Certified Low-Embodied Carbon Steel Since its inception in 2021, Nucor’s Econiq™ has led the global steel industry in certifying low-embodied carbon"
"materials. Utilizing Nucor’s industry leading GHG intensity position via circular EAF steel production - along with  100% renewable electricity credits and eliminating remaining Scope 1 emissions using carbon offsets - Econiq™  NZ continues to attract interest from automakers, manufacturers, construction firms, renewable energy producers  and others searching for ways to reduce their carbon footprint.   As industry’s journey in decarbonization has continued to evolve, Nucor has adapted the"
"Econiq™ certification to  meet our customers’ needs. The Nucor Econiq™ certification will include an Econiq™ NZ category that will supply  the certification for those customers wanting net-zero steel. Econiq™ RE is a category of Econiq™ that certifies  that Nucor steel or steel products are made with 100% renewable electricity credits. And for customers focusing  on reducing their construction project’s carbon footprint, we have a portfolio of Econiq™ products that can meet  those requirements"
"as well.    13 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index OUR MISSION OUR CHALLENGE IS TO BECOME THE WORLD’S SAFEST STEEL COMPANY. WE LIVE EACH DAY WITH GRATITUDE FOR THE FAMILIES, CUSTOMERS AND PARTNERS  THAT MAKE OUR WORK POSSIBLE. OUR MISSION GROW THE CORE EXPAND BEYOND LIVE OUR CULTURE  14 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance"
"Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index 14 GOVERNANCE Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Table of Contents  15 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index At Nucor, we believe that our reputation for fair business"
"dealings  with our contractors, suppliers, customers and each other provides  us with a strong foundation and helps to ensure our success. Legacy of Caring Since our founding, Nucor has taken the long-term view. We believe that ongoing investment  in our people, our communities, and in our partnerships will generate attractive returns for our  stockholders far into the future. Our dedication to the health and safety of our teammates, our  focus on being reliable partners for our customers, and"
"our commitment to being good stewards  of the communities where we live and work are all key elements of living the Nucor culture. Board, Structures, Committees Nucor’s Board of Directors is currently made up of eight members, three of whom are women  and one of whom is our current Chair, President and CEO. Seven of the Board members  are independent as defined by SEC guidelines. The Chair role is held by our CEO. Our Lead  Director is Christopher Kearney, retired Executive Chairman, Otis"
"Worldwide Corporation.  The Board has three committees: Audit, Compensation and Executive Development, and  Governance and Nominating. The Audit Committee functions include assisting the Board  in its oversight of the integrity of Nucor’s financial statements and compliance with legal  and regulatory requirements. The Compensation and Executive Development Committee  determines compensation for senior officers and makes recommendations to the Board  regarding director compensation. The"
"Governance and Nominating Committee evaluates and  recommends nominees for Board membership and makes recommendations to the Board  regarding corporate sustainability and other environmental, social and related governance  matters. Detailed explanations of the Board, Committees and their respective responsibilities  can be found on our website.   Nucor provides training for new members of our Board of Directors including detailed  materials explaining the company’s practices. Additionally, we"
"ensure that senior managers  and other teammates are available to familiarize Board members with our company and  the steel industry. We also organize regular visits by Board members to our facilities.  To increase their effectiveness in leading our company, Nucor encourages Directors to  pursue educational opportunities related to their position and provides reimbursement for  reasonable expenses related to those educational opportunities. LEON J. TOPALIAN NADJA Y. WEST  PATRICK J. DEMPSEY"
"NORMA B. CLAYTON NICHOLAS C. GANGESTAD LAURETTE T. KOELLNER CHRISTOPHER J. KEARNEY MICHAEL W. LAMACH 2024 BOARD MEMBERS  16 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Approach to Risk Assessment  Our risk assessment and mitigation is managed under the direction of the Board of  Directors. In addition to Board oversight, our CEO and our entire executive team are fully"
"engaged in risk management and mitigation. A comprehensive annual report on the risks  facing Nucor is prepared by our Corporate Controller, General Manager of Internal Audit and  General Counsel and submitted to the Audit Committee for review. In its oversight role, the  Audit Committee then meets with the Nucor leaders who prepared the report to discuss and  provide feedback on how Nucor prioritizes its risks.   The risks identified include those related to climate change, such as extreme"
"weather events,  disruptions to our supply chain and impacts to our markets. Some of Nucor’s other ongoing risks  include those related to economic conditions, excess global steel manufacturing capacity, legal  or environmental liabilities and cybersecurity.  Specifically:   •      Demand for steel products can be cyclical, causing significant fluctuations in prices  and shipment volumes of our products.     •      Nucor is also affected by fluctuations in the availability and costs of energy"
"and raw  materials on an ongoing basis.    •     Products supplied by competitors, especially from non-market economies such as  China, can be highly disruptive to the markets we serve.   •    Complying with environmental, safety and other regulations typically requires us to incur  expenses that reduce our profits and cash flows but also helps us manage risks in these areas. •     Cybersecurity is an area of increasing concern for all companies. We have increased our  investments in technology"
"and personnel to address this growing risk area in recent years. Sustainability Our CEO and our entire executive team are fully engaged in Nucor’s progress toward  achieving our sustainability goals and initiatives. The team members managing day-to- day activities in pursuit of our sustainability objectives report to Nucor’s Executive Vice  President of Business Services. Ethics and Compliance   Nucor establishes Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics that all teammates are  expected to"
"follow. These standards cover issues including ethical business conduct,  conflicts of interest, gifts and confidentiality. We also have a separate Code of Ethics for  Senior Financial Professionals. Each senior financial officer, including our CEO, must sign  this document by hand, and submit it to our corporate headquarters. These documents are  available to view on our website here.  Human Rights Nucor is firmly committed to respecting the human rights of all individuals. Our policies  are"
"based on the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the United  Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, as they pertain to the steel  industry. Nucor proactively works to ensure that our labor and supply chain policies  reflect our commitment to human rights. Given our team-oriented culture with its focus  on accountability, and that most of our operations are in North America, we consider our  potential risk for violating human rights to be low. Nucor does not"
"tolerate any form of  forced labor, involuntary labor, child labor, human trafficking or modern slavery, either  in our operations or our supply chain. We also respect the rights of local people in the  communities where we work and live, including the rights of indigenous peoples. Nucor also  does not tolerate coercion of any kind, withholding of passports or sexual exploitation. In  geographic locations where human rights violations may occur, we monitor and certify our  supply chains,"
"including contractors, subcontractors and suppliers. Our expectations in this  regard are captured in our Supplier Code of Conduct. If Nucor’s human rights standards are  more stringent than the laws of a particular area, we operate according to our own higher  standards. For the complete text of the Nucor Human Rights Policy, please click here. Fair Employment Practices   Our employment practices aim to achieve fair and equitable treatment for all teammates,  including competitive compensation"
"and benefits and the right to work in an environment  free of discrimination and harassment. Nucor will not tolerate any form of discrimination  or harassment in any aspect of our business. Accordingly, Nucor considers discrimination  and harassment to be major offenses that can result in suspension or termination. For the  complete text of the Nucor Discrimination and Harassment Policy, please click here.   To ensure that our operations consistently function according to our high ethical"
"standards,  Nucor provides a framework for reporting violations. Teammates, as well as suppliers and  contractors, may report violations to a manager, general manager or to Human Resources.  Individuals wishing to report anonymously may call a toll-free Hotline, which is monitored  by a third party. Violators of our ethical standards may be suspended, terminated or referred  to government authorities where appropriate. Nucor prohibits any retaliation whatsoever  against teammates who report"
"violations.    17 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index 17 SAFETY, TEAMMATES & COMMUNITY Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Letter from the CEO Table of Contents  18 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community"
"Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index At Nucor, we’ve long said Safety is Our #1 Value, but it’s not just a motto.  Our teammates understand they can rely on each other to ensure every  person in the company goes home safely to their families at the end of  their workday. We believe safe business is also smart business. Taking  care of our customers begins with taking care of the teammates who  get the job done.   At Nucor, we use every resource available to ensure the safety of"
"our teammates, including  partnering with outside groups and agencies. And we have tapped into the naturally  friendly competitive spirit of our Nucor teammates, challenging our geographic regions to  compete to determine the safest Nucor region in the country.   Our President’s Safety Cup encourages all our teammates to work together to ensure  everyone goes home safely to their families and communities after every shift.      •         Enterprise-wide I/I rate for 2024 was 0.77, for steel"
"mills the I/I rate for 2024 was 0.72.   •         I/I rate for the domestic steel industry in 2024 was 2.1.   Beyond our goal of preventing all injuries, our safety strategy prioritizes the elimination of  Serious Injuries or Fatalities (SIFs). Our SIF prevention program focuses on injury potential,  the SIF precursors that were present and active controls to eliminate exposure. We  distribute potential Serious Injury or Fatality (pSIF) alerts and weekly summaries  throughout the enterprise that"
"describe key trends and actions for divisions to adopt.   In 2024, we lowered our Injury and Illness  (I/I) rate for the sixth year in a row. That rate  decreased 3% from the previous year.  19 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index 2022 1.63 0.59 Comparison of Injury & Illness Rates Between Nucor Steel Mills and the Domestic Steel Industry As Published by the Bureau of"
"Labor Statistics (BLS) (2015-2024) BLS 3 Year Average for Steel Mills Nucor Steel Mill Average 2021 2.40 0.70 2020 2.90 0.73 2019 2.87 0.95 2018 2.93 1.19 2017 3.10 1.19 2016 3.00 1.02 2015 3.17 1.19 1.63 1.48 1.66 1.55 1.30 1.10 1.04 0.95 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 0.79 2024 0.77 Nucor Injury & Illness Rates (2015-2024) Annual OSHA Recordables Per 200,000 Hours/Year 2023 2.69 0.62 2024 2.10 0.72  20 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value"
"Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index •    DJJ Cincinnati  •       General Recycling of Washington  •      Metal Recycling Services  •     Nucor Business Technology  •    Nucor Coatings  •       Nucor Corporate  •      Nucor Cold Finish Nebraska  •   Nucor Cold Finish South Carolina  •     Nucor Cold Finish Wisconsin  •  Nucor Grating  •        Nucor IPG Kentucky   •  Nucor IPG Nevada  •     Nucor IPG South Carolina  •     Nucor IPG"
"Shelbyville  •        Nucor IPG Utah  •       Nucor IPG Waterloo  •   Nucor Logistics Group  •        Nucor Rebar Fabrication Jackson  •      Nucor Rebar Fabrication Northwest  •    Nucor Steel Kankakee  •         Nucor Steel West Virginia  •    Nucor Tubular Products Chicago  •       Nucor Tubular Products Gallatin  •      Nucor Tubular Products - Madison  •     Nu-Iron Unlimited  •    Texas Port Recycling  •         Universal Industrial Gases  •   Verco  2024 Nucor Divisions with  Zero"
"Recordables Emergency Response Management  All Nucor divisions are required to have an emergency response  plan and conduct annual emergency response training. This  training includes how to respond to various emergencies (e.g.  fire, weather, bomb threat, active shooter, hazardous materials),  training on personal protective equipment (PPE), industrial  hygiene, and the proper emergency preparedness procedures,  including rehearsing coordination with local first responders  and surrounding"
"communities. Nucor Steel Memphis hosted an Emergency Responder  Summit, bringing together first responders and safety leaders  from throughout Nucor to discuss best practices, safety  protocols and emergency preparedness in the steel industry.   The event included scenario drills for technical rope rescue  and medical rescue, which were both competitions. Nucor  Steel Decatur’s team took home the trophy for the rope  scenario and a combined effort of Nucor Steel Hickman and  Nucor Steel Nebraska"
"dominated the medical scenario drill.  80 teammates from 14 different divisions participated in this  year’s summit.   Safer through Technology and Innovation  Nucor is constantly exploring the latest technologies in safety  innovation to further reduce risks and protect teammates.  We have formed several teams, comprised of operations,  maintenance and safety personnel, to identify the Best Existing  Safety Technology (BEST) for particular types of equipment and  processes. These BEST teams"
"research and evaluate the latest  and upcoming technologies and provide our divisions with a  framework to understand what equipment is available, the  application, intention and benefit of each piece of equipment  for their needs. Each BEST team focuses on a specific piece  of equipment or process, including various forms of cranes,  mobile equipment, rolling stock, fixed processing equipment  and power distribution.  21 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value"
"Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Safety Certifications   To manage occupational health and safety risks Nucor utilizes ISO 45001  and partners with the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration  (OSHA) through both its Voluntary Protection Program (VPP), and its  Safety and Health Achievement Recognition Program (SHARP). VPP  recognizes companies that voluntarily exceed the safety standards  required by law. Achieving VPP"
"Status requires a rigorous safety and  health management system. Among our divisions, 24 participate in the  VPP, and all of these have achieved VPP Star status, the highest award  possible in the program. To qualify, divisions must have Injury and Illness  (I/I) rates below the national average for their industries.   Nucor also participates in the Special Government Employee (SGE)  program, which allows our Nucor teammates to work alongside OSHA  to perform on-site safety evaluations."
"Qualified volunteers from Nucor  are eligible to participate in the SGE Program. These volunteers must be  approved by OSHA, and their participation is funded by Nucor. Nucor has  one of the largest numbers of SGE volunteers in the country.  Approximately 40% of Nucor steel mill teammates are certified under  VPP and 25% are ISO 45001 certified. Some Nucor steel mill teammates  are certified under both of these programs, as well as SHARP. These  certifications require periodic third party audits"
"to ensure compliance  and continuous improvement. ISO 45001 Certified Divisions  •      Nucor Steel Utah  •     Nucor Steel Seattle  •  Nucor Steel Indiana  •  Nucor-Yamato Steel  •   Nucor Steel Marion  Divisions Recognized by VPP   •     Nucor Steel Hertford  •         Nucor Rebar Fabrication Mooresville, Indiana  •         Kirby Building Systems  •       Nucor Building Systems Indiana  •       Nucor Building Systems South Carolina  •        Nucor Building Systems Texas  •         Nucor"
"Building Systems Utah  •  Nucor Cold Finish Nebraska  •   Nucor Fastener Indiana  •       Nucor Steel Auburn  •   Nucor Steel Berkeley  •         Nucor Steel Gallatin  •         Nucor Steel Indiana  •  Nucor Steel Jackson  •  Nucor Steel Kankakee  •         Nucor Steel Kingman  •  Nucor Steel Marion  •   Nucor Steel Seattle  •  Nucor Steel Texas  •    Verco Phoenix  •        Vulcraft Alabama  •     Vulcraft Indiana  •     Vulcraft Nebraska  •    Vulcraft Texas  22 Table of Contents Letter from"
"the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Contractor Management  Nucor is committed to strengthening our partnership with our valued contractor partners. In March 2024,  Nucor organized a series of forums that brought together Nucor leaders and executives from 45 of our  strategic partners across maintenance, mill services, construction and transportation/logistics. The objective  of these forums was to"
"foster a stronger relationship between Nucor and our contractor partners. The forums  facilitated meaningful engagement and opened a dialogue to discuss ways to improve our relationships, break  down communication barriers and strengthen our partnerships.   During the forums, we aligned on the challenges we face associated with our respective teams’ safety,  identified potential opportunities for the leaders to continue improving safety, and discussed a conceptual  plan to get our local-based"
"teams working on site issues even more effectively. The discussions were open  and engaging, leading to the identification of three main themes: further building relationships and trust,  enhancing communication and improving operational effectiveness and consistency. In the months following  the forums, Nucor diligently worked on the opportunities identified from these themes and periodic updates on  the progress were communicated back to our contractor partners. This ongoing effort has led to"
"considerable  improvements in contractor safety and performance across Nucor. In addition to our contractor forums, Nucor has a detailed Supplier Code of Conduct. Our standard practice is  to provide a copy of the Code to each new supplier. Suppliers are generally subject to our form contract, which  states that the supplier is required to comply with this Code. Mental Health Awareness  At Nucor, our commitment to safety and each other goes beyond the workplace; it extends to our overall well-"
"being. Our challenge to become the World’s Safest Steel Company focuses on teammate safety and includes  the responsibility to create and foster an environment in which every teammate is physically, mentally and  emotionally safe. Mental health awareness is a cornerstone of our culture because we recognize its profound  impact on every aspect of our lives. Emotional wellness, access to healthcare resources, financial and physical  wellness are integral to our success as individuals and as a"
"team.  Nucor has five major pillars we focus on to ensure mental health awareness. These include Mental Health  First Aid (MHFA), emotional wellness (stress management), health care resources, financial wellness and  physical wellness.   As we continue to prioritize mental health, we’re committed to providing our team with the environment  and resources where each teammate can thrive personally and professionally. Our MHFA training is a key  initiative that has been widely implemented throughout"
"the company and designed to teach individuals how  to recognize the signs and symptoms of mental health challenges and to offer initial support. MHFA is not  intended to make participants into mental health professionals, but to increase awareness and reduce stigma  around mental health. The training empowers teammates to intervene in situations where someone might not  otherwise seek help, providing a bridge between immediate support and professional care.  Currently, we have 85 certified MHFA"
"trainers and approximately 1,000 teammates have attended the training.  23 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index The President’s Safety Awards & The President’s Safety Cup Nucor established the President’s Safety Award in 1998, an annual award won by a mill or division  where the Injury and Illness (I/l) rate and Days Away, Restricted or Transferred (DART) rate is less"
"than one-third the national average for comparable facilities.  In 2019, Nucor built on the President’s Safety Awards recognition to create the President’s Safety  Cup, an annual award presented to the region that has the best safety record across all of its  Nucor facilities.  Working as a region, and not just as an individual facility, encourages our teams to work  alongside their regional teammates to share ideas and improve safety as a group.    The 2024 President’s Safety Cup was awarded to"
"the teammates of the Atlantic Region: •       Metal Recycling Services •      Nucor Buildings Group South Carolina •  Nucor Business Technology •     Nucor Cold Finish South Carolina •      Nucor Corporate •       Nucor Insulated Panels Group South Carolina •   Nucor Skyline •         Nucor Steel Berkeley •  Nucor Steel Lexington •         Nucor Steel South Carolina •    Nu-Iron Unlimited •     Vulcraft South Carolina  24 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value"
"Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index We consider our teammates the most important  part of Nucor and believe that our culture—and the  encouragement that we provide to our teammates to  “grow the core; expand beyond; and live our culture”  —provides us with a competitive advantage. While our business strategy shapes “what” we do, our culture shapes “how” we go about  doing it. We believe adherence to the key tenets of our culture —"
"safety, integrity, trust,  innovation, open communication, teamwork, inclusion, courage, can-do attitude and  ownership — is a powerful differentiator for Nucor and positions the company favorably  to deliver ongoing value to all our stakeholders.  Nucor has a streamlined organizational structure that allows our teammates to make  quick decisions and innovate. Our organization is also decentralized, with most day- to-day operating decisions made by our division general managers and their teams."
"By  empowering our teammates, our goal is to foster an entrepreneurial mindset, along with  a strong sense of personal responsibility and a culture of accountability and belonging.   25 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Monitoring and Measuring We retain Mercer, a leading human resource consulting firm, to conduct an employee-wide survey  every three years. Mercer"
"conducted our most recent employee-wide survey in 2022. The response rate  for the 2022 survey was approximately 90%. The 2022 survey results indicated widespread satisfaction,  but did help us to identify areas where we can improve (e.g., communications, development  opportunities, etc.) We have taken this feedback and are continuously working to improve the  experience of being a Nucor teammate. We plan to repeat this survey in 2025. We also monitor our teammates’ engagement and satisfaction"
"on an ongoing basis via Comparably, an  outsourced online platform that collects anonymous feedback through structured questions covering  key workplace topics. The recent summary scores from this system that follow below place Nucor in the  top 5% of the large employers (those with more than 10,000 employees) utilizing Comparably. of teammates are proud to tell others that  they work for Nucor. 92% 88% of teammates are satisfied with Nucor as a  place to work. Our team cares about each other"
"personally and  professionally. We work hard and play hard. At the end of  the day, we are committed to each other and to advancing  the goals of the company together.” Happiness Company Outlook Team Compensation 94% 90% 92% 91% Describes employees’  well-being based  on various topics,  such as positivity  in the workplace,  opportunities for  professional growth and satisfaction towards compensation  and benefits. Reflects employee  sentiment about their  company’s future  success, based on"
"anonymous feedback on  topics like confidence  in the company’s  future, excitement  about going to work  and the likelihood of  recommending the  company to a friend. Refers to the average  sentiment rating  provided by employees  within a specific  department or team,  encompassing various  workplace culture  aspects like leadership,  compensation and  work-life balance. Reflects employee  sentiment about  compensation, based  on factors like fairness  of pay, raise frequency,  benefits"
"satisfaction  and bonus/equity  satisfaction.  26 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Our retention rate  exceeded 93% in 2024. Attracting and Retaining Teammates   Nucor’s reputation as a reliable employer has become a more important consideration  among job seekers, especially over the past few years. Although, for Nucor, the values it  represents are nothing new."
"We have long believed that our team is the fuel source that drives our success as a company.  In 2024, we introduced “Assemble. Unlock. Win.” as an intentional focus area to ensure  continued success in building a deep and well-rounded talent pool. Assemble Attracting and retaining a diverse team that will lead the company into  the future. This involves seeking the skills, experience and leadership  needed to win. Retaining our teammates through a sense of belonging.  Representing and"
"connecting to the communities where we live. Unlock Unlocking each teammate’s full potential by fostering an inclusive  environment where every teammate is visible, connected and supported.  Advocating for all and ensure the whole person safety of our team.  Developing each teammate to realize their unique potential. Connecting  with every teammate through curiosity and open communication. Win Winning together by amplifying the competitive advantage of Nucor’s  team and culture. Fueling"
"innovation, creativity and solutions through  a sense of belonging. Delivering on the demand for talent. Exceeding  expectations for all our stakeholders. Our recruiting, retention and development initiatives focus on providing equitable  opportunities for personal and professional growth, embracing differences and building an  environment of mutual respect. This reflects the company’s deep commitment to fostering  an inclusive workplace where every teammate feels valued and empowered. By"
"prioritizing  diversity of thought, background and experience, Nucor strives to create a culture that drives  innovation, strengthens collaboration and delivers exceptional results. Nucor will continue  to grow without losing sight of the remarkable culture that has made it a great place to work  – and to build a career.   27 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Core"
"Partner Schools - Helping Future Teammates Excel  Investing in our core partner schools enables Nucor to introduce and shape the post- secondary degrees that are needed to advance steelmaking technology, and to help  students find their passion in the metals industry.    •      At Tuskegee University, Nucor has invested in the Nucor Education and Research Center  of Excellence, also known as the Nucor Lab. There, engineering students receive hands- on experience studying real-world examples from"
"our mills and solving real problems  for Nucor customers. •       At the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology, Nucor has donated both money  and material toward the construction of their new state-of-the-art Nucor Mineral  Industries Building which, following its completion in early 2025, will house all  disciplines related to steelmaking. A ribbon-cutting ceremony for the new building is  expected to take place in the Spring of 2025.  •  Nucor was the first industry partner to contribute"
"to the Missouri University of Science  and Technology’s (S&T) $300 million Arrival District Project, contributing $2.5 million in  cash and in-kind donations. The Arrival District will connect the entry of campus to the  main academic campus through a series of landscape and building projects. The Arrival  District will provide S&T with a front door befitting its academic reputation.  •        At Montana Technological University, Nucor has donated infrared cameras to the  Electrical Engineering"
"Department Lab ($387K) and invested in the Nucor professorship  with a donation of $450K for lab equipment to teach labs pertaining to iron and  steelmaking. This will help incorporate a curriculum covering iron and steelmaking into  the University’s undergraduate courses.    •   And at Michigan Technological University, Nucor invested in the Pathway Programs for  Women in Engineering and Engineering Scholars. In addition to these investments, Nucor maintains an active presence on the campuses"
"of our core schools through faculty interactions, student organizations, recruitment fairs  and student-led teams. Our current core schools for commercial, finance and technical  partnerships are:  •      Montana Technical University  •         South Dakota School of Mines and Technology  •  Tuskegee University  •  University of Alabama  •        University of South Carolina  •         Baylor University  •    Carnegie Mellon University  •   Colorado School of Mines  •     Indiana University  •"
"Michigan Technical University  •        Missouri University of Science and  Technology  Collaborating with Partners to Advance Hiring and Development Nucor maintains many partnerships that promote the hiring and development of  teammates from all backgrounds. Some of our partners include: •     The Society of Women Engineers, the world’s largest advocate and catalyst for change  for women in engineering and technology.   •      The National Society of Black Engineers, one of the largest student-"
"governed  organizations, supports and promotes the aspirations of collegiate and precollegiate  students and technical professionals in engineering and technology.   •     BEYA, the Black Engineer of the Year Award, a national event that celebrates the  achievements of individuals in STEM fields, bringing together professionals and  students for seminars, workshops, award ceremonies and a STEM career fair.    •      The Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers, one of the nation’s largest"
"associations dedicated to fostering Hispanic leadership in the STEM field.  28 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Women of Nucor The Women of Nucor (WoN) initiative was launched in October 2022 under the  leadership of four Nucor teammates with a shared vision and inspiration: to connect,  develop and inspire future Women Leaders of Nucor. Women of Nucor hosts"
"virtual  development meetings and multiple focus groups open to anyone across the company  to address talent recruiting, teammate development, mentorship programs and other  initiatives that support the group’s mission. Women of Nucor follow the motto S.T.E.E.L.  – Strong, Talented, Empowered Emerging Leaders. In 2024, WoN had over 3,000  members across over 115 Nucor divisions. Nucor teammates know how fulfilling it is to be a part of our culture, but it is always  gratifying when people"
"outside of Nucor recognize that as well. That is why we were  extremely pleased to be ranked number one in Fortune Magazine’s list of the World’s Most  Admired Companies in our industry, for the fourth year in a row. Fortune is a well-respected  source on corporate reputation, surveying 4,000 executives, directors and securities  analysts to compile its list of Most Admired Companies. Nucor received this valuable  recognition in 2024 because of the hard work and dedication of our teammates."
"Competition between companies to attract and retain top talent has intensified. Outside  recognition like this from Fortune Magazine helps add to our ongoing efforts to recruit the  best and the brightest to join our team. Fortune recognizes what we already know to be true  – the Nucor culture is admired because of our teammates. Nucor is One of Fortune’s Most Admired Companies in 2024  29 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates &"
"Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Veterans of Nucor We have long viewed our nation’s military veterans as a source of talent that can enable  Nucor to thrive. And we are committed to attracting, serving and developing military talent  into our family.  Nucor has empowered its teams to connect with organizations that help veterans find  meaningful employment. The company’s supportive culture resonates with thousands of  new candidates, showing why Nucor is a great"
"place for veterans to transition to civilian  life and find rewarding careers. The company’s Military Talent and Transition Support Team  provides support through one-on-one transition talks, resume reviews, transferable skills  identification, candidate peer support and interview preparation. The goal is to ensure a  seamless transition for the military community into the Nucor family. The Steel Salute Newsletter highlights various aspects of Nucor’s military support and  recruiting"
"initiatives, including: •  VA Benefits Information: Providing veterans with information on benefits available  through the Department of Veterans Affairs. •       Mentorship: Offering mentorship programs to support veterans in their career development. •     Mental Health Resources: Committed to providing mental health resources for veterans  and their families, including Mental Health First Aid training across divisions. •        Veteran Discount Programs: Offering discount programs for"
"veterans. Nucor’s military recruiting efforts expanded in 2024 with the addition of partnerships with  Recruit Military and the Service Academy Career Conference (SACC). Partnerships like these  and others (e.g., American Corporate Partners (ACP), Cohen Group - Navy Nukes, Alliance  - Junior Military Officers, and MBA Veterans) help Nucor cultivate a workforce that has the  leadership skills to ensure our continued success.  Engaging and Developing Our People Nucor implements several internal"
"programs to guarantee quality and fairness in our teammate  talent development systems. We provide extensive on-the-job and external education training  opportunities for teammates. Our $5,250 per school year reimbursement of educational  expenses for teammates has helped many pursue college degrees, helping them further  advance their careers while employed at Nucor.   30 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community"
"Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index The Nucor Scholarship Program For over 50 years, Nucor has offered scholarships to Nucor teammates and their  dependents through the Nucor Foundation. Each child qualifies for up to $16,000  over four years that can be used for education expenses after high school. Today, the  Nucor Foundation regularly funds over $6 million per year in scholarships and, since its  inception, has distributed over $133 million to more than 27,000 students."
"Nucor University At Nucor, our Mission to Grow the Core, Expand Beyond and Live Our Culture is now  further advanced by the creation of Nucor University (NU), launched in October  2024. NU is Nucor’s robust updated learning management platform, serving as a  vehicle to help teammates grow and evaluate their core skills and expand beyond  to learn new skills. We empower all of our teammates to further their development,  take ownership in their current roles and pursue advancement within the"
"company.  Each mill or division owns its own NU platform, ensuring teammates at those  divisions can pursue the education that matters most to them. NU provides greater opportunity for self-learning as well as a clear learning  path for all teammates to acquire the necessary skills to advance and grow their  career. Teammates can learn at their own pace and take courses such as Finance  IQ, 10 Coaching Skills Every Leader Should Master, Lead with Empathy, Time  Management, and Business Acumen."
"NU includes instructor-led courses with  in-house development programs such as NuFoundation, Teammate Playbook and  NuPerformance 101, each of which helps teammates understand Nucor’s culture,  mission and strategy. For teammates looking to pursue leadership development,  NU has developed a course that explores five measurable metrics of management,  allowing teammates to see how they can guide teams to drive results.    Nucor’s Dollars and Tons class is a unique training, designed by Nucor"
"teammates  to educate on the financial and operational aspects of the steel industry. Through  guided gameplay, participants gain insight into the economics of steel production,  market dynamics, pricing strategies and the impact of tariffs and trade policies on  the industry. For over 20 years, the Dollars and Tons class has helped teammates  develop a deeper understanding of how Nucor operates and competes in the global  steel market, as well as the financial metrics and performance indicators"
"that drive  the company’s success in an engaging team-based game simulation.    Teammates also have access to a LinkedIn Learning account through NU for  thousands of self-paced e-learning courses on topics ranging from leadership,  coaching, feedback, goal setting, strategic thinking, Excel, AI, time management,  mental health and more.  31 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement"
"GRI Index Pay Equity Nucor is committed to fair and equitable pay for our all our teammates. We regularly  analyze internal and external pay data, as well as our compensation structure, policies and  practices, to drive equitable pay decisions. At Nucor, we strive to provide consistent and  fair compensation based on merit-based drivers of pay, such as experience, job duties,  qualifications, performance, work location and other job-related factors. Taking these factors  into account, we believe"
"that the average compensation for female and minority teammates  is comparable to the average compensation for male and non-minority teammates within  each Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Commission job category. Inclusive Culture Fosters Belonging Nucor’s commitments to ensuring a well-rounded team have been integral parts of Nucor’s  culture of inclusion and trust since our start when Ken Iverson desegregated all aspects of  our first steel products facility in Florence, South Carolina. And"
"we have always understood  that benefiting from diversity requires more than just reflecting demographics. We rely on  our culture to guide us as we continuously look for ways to improve on our efforts to help  every teammate feel they are part of the Nucor team.   Our focus on safety and looking out for one another’s  well-being has always defined the way we work with  each other, our customers and our partners.  We know we have a responsibility to create a culture where all our teammates feel"
"they are  an important part of our organization. To do this, we need to know when and why people  do not feel that they belong. Over the past few years, we have been listening, learning and  conducting focus groups to understand the concerns of our teammates. We seek to better  understand people’s perceptions about our workplace and the level of belonging our  teammates feel.   We are optimistic that more open communication about differences and difficulties  encountered will make us all more"
"aware, supportive and empathetic, so that our culture  continues to develop along a path of improving belonging. agree that people at Nucor are treated fairly regardless of their race or sexual orientation. 93% of Teammates  32 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Succession Planning Our robust succession planning process has meant that we typically fill senior"
"leadership roles  with internal candidates who fully embrace our culture. We regularly review the demographics of  leadership candidates and create appropriate talent acquisition and development plans to ensure  we are building a world-class workforce.   Nucor’s Teammate Population Our teammate population is relatively balanced with respect to age group representation (see  accompanying chart). Our female population is up 1% from last year to 14%. We believe that  increasing the percentage of"
"females on our team represents an opportunity for Nucor to create  a well-rounded talent base.  29% 24% 19% 19% U.S. Teammates By Age Range 8% Under 30 30-39 40-49 50-59 60+  33 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index of Nucor’s Board of  Directors are women  and/or minority. 38% Depth of Leadership We also recognize the benefits of having a well-rounded leadership team"
"at the  helm of Nucor. Currently, 38% of Nucor’s Board of Directors are women and 25%  are racial or ethnically diverse. In addition, in 2024, over 35% of our placements  into management and executive levels have been diverse candidates. Looking Forward Nucor believes that inclusion is a cultural issue and that becoming a more inclusive  company means developing a deeper level of trust among all of us, allowing us to  know each other better, and to understand and value each other’s differences."
"While Nucor is proud of its approach and track record of fostering an inclusive work  environment, we recognize that there is still more work to be done. Looking ahead,  we expect to continue to assess our team and leadership and listen more carefully to  each other. By continuously evaluating our approach and executing where we detect  opportunities to improve, Nucor and all its stakeholders will benefit.   For further insight into how Nucor thinks about Inclusion and Diversity, including  our"
"most recently available EEO-1 data, please see our essay on this topic by  clicking here.  34 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index When Nucor joins a community, we consider our neighbors to be part of the Nucor  family, too. That’s why Nucor is dedicated to supporting the communities where  we live and work and the organizations that are making a difference in them."
"Our  teammates are empowered to engage with their local communities in the same  way they are empowered to make independent decisions on the job. As a result,  Nucor divisions and teammates contribute their time, money and materials to a  diverse range of local charities and causes. In 2024, Nucor donated over $20 million  to charitable organizations through our  operating divisions across North America and  the Nucor Charitable Foundation. Here are just  a few examples of the ways the Nucor"
"team is  making a difference.  35 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Nucor’s Focus on Education Nucor is deeply committed to supporting education through a wide range of  initiatives that inspire and equip future generations. A key effort is Nucor’s  partnership with Discovery Education, which provides K-12 students and  teachers with free, high-quality, standards-"
"aligned digital curriculum re- sources focused on sustainability and STEM education.  Since 2023, Nucor has collaborated with the American Heart Association to  support equity in health education through the AHA’s Leaders for a Resilient  Generation (LRG) program. LRG offers science-based, age-appropriate  curriculum, resources and experiences to aid students’ physical and  emotional health and promote healthy habits from an early age. To date,  this partnership has reached over 650 underserved"
"schools and more than  500,000 families across the Southeastern United States. In addition to this national initiative, Nucor divisions actively engage in  local educational programs, fostering hands-on learning and community  involvement. Activities include general donations, sponsoring robotics teams,  donating to community college programs, mentoring students, providing  backpacks full of school supplies to needy students, teacher recognition  programs and workforce development.   Spotlight"
"on Mentoring Programs (NuLevel) The NuLevel Program is an initiative spearheaded by Nucor Steel Louisiana and  designed to directly impact the local Saint James Parish community. Launched  in August 2022, this three-year cohort model focuses on financial literacy, soft  skills, and college readiness for high school students. Each cohort progresses  from sophomore year to senior year, engaging in activities such as college tours,  ACT/SAT prep and hands-on challenges to develop problem-solving"
"skills. The  program also includes mentorship from Nucor teammates.   This program is now being replicated by other Nucor divisions. Because  local teammates are inspired to develop programs that meet the needs of  their local community, great ideas like NuLevel can flourish and grow. This  culture of giving and inspiring each other leads to the creation of similar  programs across other divisions, each tailored to their unique communities.  This collaborative approach strengthens the impact of"
"the NuLevel Program  and reinforces Nucor’s commitment to our communities. By investing in the  education and development of local youth, Nucor aims to foster a skilled  and empowered future workforce.  36 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Nucor Mobilizes Resources for Hurricanes Helene and Milton  Following the devastation caused by Hurricanes Helene and Milton on"
"the East Coast of the United States, the Nucor team sprang into action,  providing both short- and long-term support for hurricane victims  by utilizing the Nucor network to connect with communities in need.  Within days, teammates from across the country gathered supplies to  meet immediate needs like water, generators, food and clothing, while  also offering long-term support through financial contributions to on- the-ground organizations.   Thanks to the unique capabilities and location of"
"our headquarters  in Charlotte, North Carolina, Nucor teammates engaged in initiatives  like Operation Air Drop to deliver supplies by air to the hard-to-reach  mountain communities in the early weeks of disaster relief. Our  Universal Industrial Gases (UIG) teammates in Pennsylvania filled and  delivered a truckload of essentials to our Trademark Metals Recycling  location in Jacksonville, Florida. Meanwhile, teammates from Indiana  delivered vital support to families in Tennessee.   In"
"addition, the Nucor Charitable Foundation quickly released $1 million  in support for organizations on the ground in Western North Carolina,  including Samaritan’s Purse, MANNA Food Bank, the American National  Red Cross, All Hands and Hearts, and Bounty and Soul. Without hesitation and with a clear sense  of urgency, I witnessed many teammates  offer their time, work and energy to help  however they could. We were proud to be  just one part of Nucor’s impressive, rapid  relief efforts.”  •"
"AIST Foundation  •      Alexander Youth Network  •      All Hands and Hearts  •         ALSAC/St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital  •  American Diabetes Association  •        American Heart Association  •   American National Red Cross  •  Bounty and Soul  •      Catawba Lands Conservancy  •    Catawba Riverkeeper Foundation  •       Central Piedmont Community College Foundation  •        Chair Force 1  •        Charlotte Family Housing  •     Charlotte Rescue Mission  •     Classroom Central  •"
"Dilworth Center  •      Discovery Place Inc  •  Foundation for the Carolinas  •         Gary Sinise Foundation  •       Global War on Terrorism Memorial Foundation  •  Heart Math Tutoring  •  Make-A-Wish Central & Western NC  •     MANNA Food Bank  •      Mending Strides Ranch  •        Military Missions in Action  •  Mitchell Bays Turner Pediatric Fund  •  Mother Emanuel Memorial Foundation  •   NC Chamber Foundation  •        Original Six Foundation  •      Safe Alliance  •        Samaritan's"
"Purse  •    SHARE Charlotte  •      Susan G Komen Foundation  •     The Dilworth Center  •  The Relatives  •        The Salvation Army  •   Trips for Kids Charlotte  •     United Way of Greater Charlotte  •      Veterans Bridge Home  •         Veterans of Foreign Wars Foundation  •  Young Black Leadership Alliance Nucor Charitable Foundation Grantees  - Lauren Dammeyer, Nucor Teammate  37 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates &"
"Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Nucor Supports First Responders Nucor is deeply committed to supporting, and learning from, community first responders  through a variety of initiatives. At Nucor Steel Decatur, team members had to put their  training into action, saving a teammate experiencing cardiac arrest by performing CPR and  using an Automated External Defibrillator (AED)—critical steps in the teammate’s recovery.  Through our partnership with local police,"
"fire and rescue departments, Nucor  teammates continue to ensure consistent communication between their divisions and  surrounding communities. For example, Nucor Steel Tuscaloosa engaged with local first responders by hosting a mill  tour for the Tuscaloosa Fire Department’s Regional Hazmat Response Team, enhancing  mutual understanding and preparedness.  Beyond these efforts, Nucor’s Mental Health First Aid program helps to train local first  responders in providing initial support for mental"
"health challenges. The company also  conducts mass casualty drills, hosts First Responders Appreciation Days, and regularly  mobilizes resources to assist communities during natural disasters.  Nucor Supports Veterans Operation Steel Warrior (OSW) is a collaborative effort among many Nucor divisions to help  build smart homes for disabled veterans. This effort is a partnership with the Gary Sinise  Foundation and their RISE program. The OSW program began in 2013 and has raised nearly  $2 million"
"dollars for multiple deserving veterans. In 2024, we were proud to support  US Marine Corps Corporal (Ret.) Chad Ohmer achieve his dream of a new, custom, smart  technology home. Additionally, Nucor provides rebar to every home in the RISE program  through our subsidiary Nucor Rebar Fabrication. To learn more about the Nucor team’s impact on  our communities, follow us on social media.   38 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates &"
"Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index 38 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Letter from the CEO Table of Contents  39 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Nucor is the most diversified manufacturer of  steel and steel products"
"in the United States and  the largest recycler in North America. For more  than 60 years, environmental responsibility  and sustainability have been central to every  aspect of our operations. By pioneering the  use of Electric Arc Furnace (EAF) technology,  we have transformed scrap metal from a waste  product into a valuable raw material enabling  the production of high-quality steel products,  setting a new standard for the industry. As a result, Nucor is recognized as one of the world’s most"
"environmentally  conscious steel producers, achieving greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions that are  less than half the global average and only one-third that of traditional extractive  steel producers.  Nucor evaluates its GHG intensity and other sustainability metrics regularly.  We believe this information is important to gauge the efficacy of our  decarbonization and sustainability efforts.   This section of our corporate sustainability report outlines our corporate GHG  footprint, our targets and"
"our strategies for achieving them. Additionally, this  section covers our other environmental policies, initiatives and metrics. For more  information on Nucor and sustainability, please refer to our Sustainability Page.  40 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Scope 1: Direct emissions from operations. Scope 2: Indirect emissions from purchased electricity. Scope 3:"
"Emissions associated with purchased raw material production and transportation. 1.      All steel mills with melting capacity owned and operated by Nucor were included in the  steel mill inventory, with the exception of Nucor Steel Brandenburg, which is still in the  ramp-up phase. Emissions from this mill, however, are included in the Nucor company-wide  graph above. 2.   Overall Global and BF-BOF Global Scope 1, 2 and 3 Intensities are based on World Steel  Association’s latest sustainability"
"indicator report. Nucor Steel Mills1 (GHG) SCOPE 1 4.3M SCOPE 2 5.1M SCOPE 3  6.7M TOTAL 16.2M Overview of Nucor GHG Emissions 2024 Scope 1 6.9M Scope 2 5.8M Scope 3  5.3M Total  18.0M Nucor Company Wide (GHG) Steel Mills, DRI plants, Product Groups, Scrap Processing & Transportation Metric Tons of CO2 Eq. in Millions (M) External Assurances 2024 Nucor Steel Mill Scope 1, 2 and 3 (Category 1) emissions data was  verified by SCS Global Services in alignment with ISO 14064-3 2019.  Nucor’s Scope"
"1, 2 and 3 intensity (above) was calculated using the verified  emissions data. SCS Global’s Verification Statements can be found here. Scope 1, 2 & 3 Intensity2 (Metric Tons of CO2 Eq. Per Metric Ton of Steel Produced) 0.76 1.92 2.32 Nucor (Circular) Overall Global BF-BOF Global (Extractive) 2020 2021 2022 2023 Nucor Scope 1, 2 & 3 Intensity (2020-2024)1 (Metric Tons of CO2 Eq. Per Metric Ton of Steel Produced) 0.93 0.79 0.76 0.77 Metric Tons of CO2 Eq. in Millions (M) 2024 0.76  41 Table of"
"Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index In January 2025, Nucor announced that the Global Steel  Climate Council (GSCC) certified Nucor’s 2030 and  2050 Science-Based Emissions Targets (SBET). Science-Based Emissions Targets  In November 2023, Nucor announced science-based net-zero targets aligned with the Global Steel Climate  Council’s (GSCC) “Steel Climate Standard” and the"
"International Energy Agency’s “Net Zero by 2050: A Roadmap  for the Global Energy Sector.” These goals underscore our commitment to sustainability and support the Paris  Agreement’s objective of limiting global temperature rise to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels.  In January 2025, Nucor announced that the GSCC certified the Company’s Science-Based Emissions Targets  (SBET). In the submission for GSCC certification, which was independently verified by SCS Global Services, Nucor  uses a 2023"
"base year to set an interim SBET of 0.975 metric tons of CO2e per metric ton of hot-rolled steel  produced by 2030. In addition, Nucor previously set a net-zero by 2050 target that entails achieving 0.116 metric  tons of CO2e per metric ton of hot-rolled steel produced, which aligns with the IEA Net Zero by 2050 target for the  global steel industry. This made Nucor the first diversified steelmaker in the U.S. to set GHG emission reduction  targets that include Scopes 1, 2 and 3. These targets"
"were set in compliance with the GSCC Steel Climate  Standard, and Nucor’s long-term target exceeds the Standard’s 2050 objective. Nucor’s Science-Based Emissions Target Certification can be found here. Nucor GSCC Scope 1, 2 & 3 Intensity Targets 2030 975 2050 116 1200 1000 800 600 400 200 0 2024 1039 2023 1091 2022 1075 Nucor Company-Average Steel Emissions Intensity (kg CO2e/metric ton of hot-rolled steel)  42 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance"
"Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Transparent Reporting  At Nucor, we are committed to transparency and accountability in our sustainability  reporting. We recognize that clear, consistent and reliable data is essential for  our stakeholders, including investors, customers and teammates, to assess our  environmental and social impact.  To uphold these principles, we actively participate in globally recognized disclosure  frameworks such as CDP"
"and EcoVadis. In addition to this sustainability report which  follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), we also have published TCFD Climate  Action Reports aligned with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as well  as reporting aligned with the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB). These  disclosures ensure that our performance is measured against industry best practices and  evolving expectations.  By maintaining rigorous reporting standards and continuously"
"refining our sustainability  strategy, we aim to foster trust and drive meaningful progress toward a more sustainable  future. You can explore our latest reports through the links  below:  •         CDP Climate Change  •   Nucor TCFD •    SASB Report Environmental Product Declarations Nucor is also committed to transparent product accounting through Environmental  Product Declarations (EPDs), which serve as a 'nutrition label' for our products, providing  verified data on their environmental"
"impact. As a leader in EPD adoption, Nucor's current  library includes 19 EPDs, covering 10 products across nearly 60 facilities.   In 2024 and looking into 2025, here are some key initiatives Nucor will achieve:  •       Obtain 100% coverage of our steel making divisions with EPDs.  •        Continue to expand our EPD offerings in our downstream product groups, including  racking, grating and wiring products, in addition to updating our bar and sheet  sector declarations.    •    Working with"
"our trusted partners to expedite EPD creation, while also using more  robust and current production data.  Nucor’s environmental product declarations can be found here.  43 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index 602 Scope 3 282 Scope 2 207 Scope 1 Net-Zero Reduction Strategy  Nucor remains committed to transparency in GHG emissions reporting. Our reporting practices"
"undergo third-party verification to ensure accuracy and accountability. Furthermore,  we are dedicated to sharing our strategic plans and the necessary actions to attain our sustainability goals, demonstrating our unwavering dedication to environmental  stewardship and corporate responsibility. A summary overview of our near-term GHG emissions reduction strategy follows below here: Starting Point 2030 Goal 950 Carbon Capture Reheat Furnace Optimization Reduced Carbon in Electricity Reduction in"
"Charge  Carbon/Injection  Carbon Pig Iron Carbon  Reductions and Low  Copper Shred 1,091 ~35 Scope 3 ~26 Scope 1 ~15 Scope 1 & 3 ~15 Scope 3 975 1000 1050 1100 ~25 Scope 2 548 Scope 3 257 Scope 2 170 Scope 1 kg CO2e per metric ton of hot-rolled steel  44 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Net-Zero Strategies Summary Overview Scope 1 Strategies Pioneering Circular"
"Steel Nucor has been a pioneer in the steel industry for over 50 years, employing Electric Arc Furnaces (EAFs) to manufacture a wide variety of essential steel products by  recycling scrap metal. This approach has enabled Nucor to achieve a Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions intensity less than half of the global average. We are committed to  sustaining this momentum by leveraging innovative practices to advance the circular economy further and continuing to lower our GHG footprint. Supersonic"
"Injection Nucor utilizes injection carbon in steelmaking operations to provide additional energy for melting materials in EAFs. We are currently investigating supersonic  injection methods to enhance the efficiency of this process, aiming to reduce the quantity of carbon material required per ton of steel.  Reheat Furnace Upgrades Nucor recognizes the substantial natural gas consumption and direct GHG emissions associated with reheat furnaces at our mills. We are actively investigating  options"
"to enhance furnace efficiency and continue to invest in micro-mill technologies, which eliminate the need for steel reheating by immediately rolling  cast steel. Scope 2 Strategies Supporting Electricity Grid  Decarbonization Electricity serves as the primary energy source for melting scrap metal in Nucor's EAFs, making us a significant consumer of electrical power, and contributing to  our Scope 2 emissions. Consequently, Nucor is actively collaborating with utilities to advocate for the"
"adoption of zero-carbon electricity generation methods. Renewable Power Purchase Agreements Nucor leverages power purchase agreements (PPAs) to procure renewable electricity for our operations, aligning with our commitment to sustainability.  The renewable energy credits obtained from these PPAs are utilized to decrease the environmental footprint of our Econiq™ line of products, contributing to  reduced GHG intensity. Investing in Clean Energy Nucor's EAFs require a reliable supply of"
"electricity. To help meet this demand sustainably, Nucor is partnering with companies advancing next generation zero  GHG nuclear technologies such as NuScale and Helion.   On-Site Renewable Power  Generation & Storage At select facilities, we are actively pursuing increased use of on-site solar power generation and energy storage to lower our power costs and reduce the  carbon footprint of our power consumption.  Energy Efficiency Projects Nucor remains committed to enhancing energy efficiency"
"across all its facilities as a key strategy to reduce GHG emissions. Through ongoing efforts, we aim to  achieve greater operational efficiency and contribute to a more sustainable future. Scope 3 Strategies Low Copper Shred Nucor’s Berkeley, South Carolina steel mill continues the ramp-up phase of its new low copper shred technology. This technology facilitates the separation of  non-magnetic materials from recycled steel. By adopting this innovative approach, Nucor gains access to superior"
"quality scrap material, and increases the  recycled content of our products. Low Carbon Iron Innovations Iron inputs, such as pig iron and Direct Reduced Iron (DRI), are energy-intensive to produce and contribute significantly to Scope 3 emissions in steelmaking. To  mitigate the environmental impact of its iron inputs, Nucor is actively investing in and exploring methods to produce them with much lower carbon footprints.  Green Raw Materials Nucor is dedicated to revolutionizing the steelmaking"
"process by sourcing greener raw materials, including lower carbon ingredients, bio-based materials and  reclaimed waste, to align with its environmental goals. By integrating these sustainable alternatives, Nucor is reducing its product footprint and advancing a  more sustainable steel industry. NSLA Carbon Capture In June 2023, Nucor finalized an agreement with ExxonMobil to implement a Carbon Capture and Sequestration process at our Louisiana DRI plant. This  initiative will enable us to"
"capture, transport, and store up to 800,000 metric tons of CO2 annually, lowering the GHG emissions profile of Louisiana's DRI.  45 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Sourcing Carbon-Free Energy Affordable and clean industrial-scale energy is a significant growth opportunity that has  drawn our focus. To achieve the United States’ energy goals, a massive amount of"
"steel will  be needed to build wind, solar and nuclear power generation assets, as well as enhanced  energy transmission infrastructure. Nucor is investing today in capabilities that will enhance  its position tomorrow as a leader in sustainably producing the steel required for this clean,  industrial-scale energy future. Nucor is not only producing the steel to build out our nation’s  renewable energy infrastructure, but is also supporting new solar and wind energy projects  through Power"
"Purchase Agreements (PPAs). In August 2023, Nucor announced a PPA for 250 megawatts of renewable energy from Sebree  Solar, LLC, a subsidiary of NextEra Energy Resources, LLC. Sebree Solar is an innovative  two-phase project in Henderson County, Kentucky. The project’s first phase – Sebree Solar I –  began construction in April 2024 and is anticipated to be operational by the end of 2025.   Steel for Sebree Solar I has been sourced from multiple Nucor mills in the region, including  Nucor Steel"
"Gallatin in Ghent, Kentucky. Nucor steel will also be used for another solar  project to be built and operated by a subsidiary of NextEra Energy Resources, Green River  Solar, in Meade and Breckinridge counties. The Green River Solar project will generate up  to 200 megawatts of electricity. The Kentucky-produced steel will be used for the racking  system which supports the projects’ solar panels. In November 2022, Nucor was the first industrial company to join the UN 24/7 Carbon- Free Energy"
"Compact, which is aimed at accelerating the decarbonization of the world’s  electricity systems to mitigate climate change and ensure access to clean and affordable  electricity. The Compact was created to accelerate global decarbonization by uniting energy  buyers, suppliers, governments and other stakeholders to transition to a zero-carbon  electrical grid. It establishes principles and actions that drive systemic change across the  energy ecosystem.  To further its commitment, Nucor is"
"working directly with Google and Microsoft to develop  new business models and to aggregate their demand for advanced clean electricity  technologies. These models will be designed to accelerate the development of first-of-a-kind  and early commercial projects, including advanced nuclear, next-generation geothermal,  clean hydrogen, long-duration energy storage and others.  Nucor has also announced agreements for collaboration on pilot projects to explore the  development of advanced nuclear"
"facilities using both fission and fusion technology.  Nucor announced a collaboration with fusion power company Helion in September 2023 to  facilitate siting a 500 MW fusion power plant at a Nucor steel mill. This partnership is the  first fusion energy agreement of this scale in the world.  46 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Creating Low Embodied Carbon DRI"
"Another important way that Nucor is seeking to lower our carbon footprint is by addressing the  raw material mix that goes into steelmaking. Some grades of sheet steel, because of their strict  tolerances and specifications, require some input of virgin iron units, whether Pig Iron, Direct- Reduced Iron (DRI) or Hot-Briquetted Iron (HBI). Nucor is a significant purchaser of low-carbon  “green” pig iron and we have invested in other technologies to reduce carbon emissions.  In June 2023, Nucor"
"entered into an agreement with ExxonMobil for a Carbon Capture and  Sequestration process to capture, transport and store up to 800,000 mt per year of CO2 from  Nucor’s Louisiana DRI plant. The CO2 will be transported via pipeline from the DRI plant and  stored at an ExxonMobil-owned storage site. The project is expected to start up in 2026 and  supports Louisiana’s objective of reaching net-zero CO2 emissions by 2050. “This transformative CCS project with ExxonMobil is a key part of our"
"decarbonization strategy  and will result in some of the lowest embodied carbon DRI or HBI in North America,” said Leon  Topalian, Chair, President and Chief Executive Officer of Nucor Corporation. “We are taking a  multi-faceted approach to decarbonization, and this partnership builds on previous investments  we have made in a carbon-free iron start-up, renewable energy generation and the development  of small modular nuclear reactor technology.” Measure Value Total Energy Consumed (Gigajoules)"
"165,266,000 Total Fuel Energy Consumed (Gigajoules) 104,970,000 64% Percentage of Fuel that is Natural Gas 81% Percentage of Fuel that is Renewable 0% Total Electricity Energy Consumed (Gigajoules) 60,296,000 36% Percentage of Electricity that is Renewable 14% Percentage of Carbon-Free Electricity (CFE) 41% Energy Intensity - Steel Mills Only (Gigajoules/MT) 5.27 Enterprise Total Energy Consumption (2024) Nucor's energy data includes the totals from all steel mills, DRI facilities, DJJ, and"
"product divisions. In cases where data was unavailable, estimates were used to determine facility energy usage.  47 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Low Copper Shred Nucor’s Berkeley, South Carolina and Hertford, North Carolina steel mills continue ramp-up phase  for the patented process intended to remove copper and other residual tramp elements from its  obsolete"
"scrap metal raw materials. This technology facilitates the separation of non-magnetic  materials from recycled steel. By adopting this innovative approach, Nucor gains access to  superior quality scrap material, and increases the recycled content of our products. Moreover,  this advancement helps reduce the total embodied carbon of our offerings. Greener Alternative Materials We regularly evaluate our supply chain to uncover opportunities to source greener raw  materials and ensure that our"
"practices align with our environmental goals.  Opportunities we  are investigating include lower carbon ingredients, bio-based materials and reclaimed waste.  Sustainable alternatives like these are essential for a greener future. Research and Development Nucor is proud to collaborate on research and development projects with leading universities  and laboratories through funding from the Department of Energy (DOE), reinforcing its  commitment to innovation and sustainability in the steel"
"industry. Partnering with the National  Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), Nucor is exploring carbon-neutral fuels and biomass-based  materials to significantly reduce emissions in EAF steelmaking.  Nucor partnered with the Lawerence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) in 2024 to examine  the operational efficiency of using high temperature filtration systems to eliminate particulates  in order to make use of waste heat for other efforts such as the preheating of scrap metal, etc.  The main"
"project objective is to develop and use high-performance computing simulations to  examine the particulate flows through ceramic and cyclone high temperature filters, where  the former removes small particles and the latter larger ones. These initiatives aim to drive  efficiency, reduce environmental impact and advance decarbonization within the steel industry.  During 2024, Nucor invested a minority stake in Zincovery, a New Zealand based startup focused  on recycling EAF dust into high quality"
"zinc ingots for galvanizing applications. Through its  patented process, Zincovery can reduce costs and the carbon footprint of zinc production from  EAF dust by eliminating coal usage, which is common in existing EAF dust recycling processes.  The company will start construction of a 1,000 tons per year demonstration plant this year and  aims to commercialize its technology in the coming years. Nucor has provided EAF dust samples  for testing as the company continues to develop the technology."
"48 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Nucor’s Environmental Policy As North America’s largest recycler and most diversified steel and steel products company, Nucor  recognizes its role in protecting the environment. We value the environment of the communities in  which we operate, and recognize its importance to our teammates, their families and our collective"
"welfare. Nucor believes that all people are entitled to equal protection from environmental and health  hazards, meaningful involvement in actions impacting the environment in their communities, and a  healthy, sustainable, and resilient environment in which to live. Protecting the environment is critical  to our operations and Nucor’s long-term success. To this end, we endorse the following principles:  Performance To continuously improve the effectiveness of our ISO 14001:2015 Environmental"
"Management System (EMS). Nucor will:  •        Pursue pollution prevention and waste minimization opportunities;  •    Investigate and develop technologies and operations that improve environmental performance;   •         Regularly evaluate the EMS and make appropriate improvements.  Stewardship  Nucor recognizes our potential for environmental impact on the communities in which we operate. We will continuously strive to  minimize these effects by evaluating our operations and researching new"
"technologies and opportunities.  Responsibility  Environmental protection is the individual obligation of each Nucor teammate and a primary responsibility of Nucor leadership.  Nucor also requires contractors, vendors and suppliers to comply with applicable environmental laws.   Climate Change Nucor recognizes the importance of evaluating and mitigating the risks of climate change. We are committed to transparent reporting  on climate risks and impacts and will assess core elements such as"
"governance, risk management, strategy, metrics and targets.  Standards Nucor and its divisions will comply with all laws and regulations governing our operations. Environmental compliance is a priority for  Nucor leadership. Outreach  Nucor will strive to foster open dialogue so that we may effectively communicate with our teammates, our neighbors and other  concerned parties. Biodiversity Nucor is dedicated to sustainability with policies that prioritize biodiversity. Nucor’s biodiversity"
"policy can be found here.  49 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Commitment to Reducing Waste Nucor demonstrates a commitment to waste reduction across all production  processes. This approach extends to recycling various waste materials, thereby  curbing potential air and water pollution while simultaneously offering valuable  resources to other industries.   The"
"recycling process in EAFs yields particulate matter emissions, containing  various contaminants like paint, zinc, chrome, and other metals. This  byproduct, known as EAF dust, is collected in specialized pollution control  equipment, namely baghouses. Recognizing the value within, Nucor recycles  the majority of this dust to recover metallic content. By doing so, we not only  mitigate environmental impact but also avoid costly disposal procedures for  EAF dust.  Furthermore, Nucor strategically"
"repurposes steel slag from its mills,  turning what would otherwise be considered waste into useful materials.  This steel slag finds application in road construction, serving as a granular  base, embankments, engineered fill, highway shoulders and hot mix asphalt  pavement. Leveraging the diverse physical, chemical, mechanical and thermal  properties of steel slag, we contribute to the sustainability of construction  activities while meeting industry demands.  In addition to our recycling"
"efforts, Nucor facilities manage hazardous materials  in accordance with good engineering practices to minimize release to the  environment and risk to teammates and communities. Each Nucor facility  creates plans and procedures to address reasonably foreseeable categories of  releases and minimize their consequences. All Nucor environmental teammates  managing hazardous waste are trained annually in Hazardous Waste Operations  and Emergency Response (HAZWOPER) and Department of Transportation"
"(DOT)  regulations to ensure proper handling of materials.    Nucor has a robust waste vendor audit program that ensures recycling, treatment,  storage or disposal facilities receiving Nucor waste are audited for CERCLA,  RCRA and other applicable state and federal regulations. Sites are audited at  a minimum of three to five years depending on the facilities’ risk and material  type (i.e. hazardous or non-hazardous) being shipped. Findings from these audits  are tracked through Nucor’s"
"environmental management system to ensure  effectiveness. In 2024, 25 sites were audited by Nucor teammates or a contracted  third-party firm. Of the 25 sites audited, no major findings were observed. Minor  findings are tracked and maintained in Nucor’s waste vendor audit portal.  50 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Spill Prevention and Remediation Nucor is"
"committed to minimizing spills through rigorous safety protocols, employee  training and advanced containment measures. In the event that a spill does occur, the company follows strict remediation procedures to mitigate any negative impact  on the environment. This includes rapid response, proper cleanup techniques and  adherence to all regulatory requirements. Additionally, Nucor diligently tracks spill data to identify trends, improve preventive measures and enhance overall  environmental"
"protection efforts.  Training Teammates The Nucor Environmental University (NEU), launched in 2015, is a virtual platform  designed to train teammates on environmental compliance and foster connections  among those responsible for environmental performance.    NEU begins with the “Welcome to Nucor” series, which provides a comprehensive  overview of Nucor’s approach to environmental management and compliance. This  series also introduces the tools and resources available to support these"
"efforts.  Following the introductory series, NEU offers courses on key environmental laws,  including the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act and the Resource Conservation and  Recovery Act. For teammates requiring more specialized knowledge, advanced courses tailored to specific areas of responsibility are also available. Thus far, more than 3,200 teammates have completed over 30,500 NEU courses and passed  more than 30,000 related exams. Nucor Enterprise Waste (2024) Measure Value Total Waste"
"(tons)1 1,356,000 Hazardous Waste (tons) 432,000 % Recycled 86% % Landfilled 14% % Incinerated 0% Non-Hazardous Waste (tons) 924,000 % Recycled 44% % Landfilled 55% % Incinerated 0% % of Total Waste Recycled 58% % of Total Waste Landfilled 42% % of Total Waste Incinerated 0% 1.  Nucor’s waste data includes the totals from all steel mills, DRI facilities, product divisions, and offices. In cases where  data was unavailable, estimates were used to determine facility hazardous and non-hazardous"
"waste generation.  Total waste from Nucor Enterprise (2024) and Nucor Scrap Recycling Group (2024) represents over 95% of Nucor’s  company-wide waste generation. 2.   The David J. Joseph Company (DJJ) operates six regional scrap recycling companies across the United States. Waste  data represents over 90% of this business segment’s waste generation. Nucor Scrap Recycling Group (2024) Measure Value Total Waste (tons)2 962,000 Non-Hazardous Waste (tons) 962,000 % for Beneficial Reuse 100%  51"
"Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Measure Value Total Steel Mill Fresh Water Withdrawn (Thousand cubic meters) 33,500 Fresh Surface Water (Including rainwater, water from wetlands, rivers, and lakes) 19% Groundwater (Water which is being held in, and can be recovered from, an underground formation)  – renewable 38% Groundwater (Water which is being held in, and can"
"be recovered from, an underground formation) – non-renewable 18% Third Party Sources (Municipal/city water suppliers, public or private, utilities) 25% Total Water Discharge (Thousand cubic meters) 16,500 Water Discharge to Fresh Surface Water (Including wetlands, rivers, and lakes) 70% Water Discharge to Brackish Surface Water/Seawater 3% Water Discharge to Third-Party Sources (City wastewater treatment, sewage) 27% Percentage of Water Recycled - Steel Mills 88% Percentage of Water Recycled -"
"Enterprise 74% Percentage in Regions with High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress - Steel Mills2 17% Nucor Enterprise Water Consumption & Discharge (2024)1 1.     Nucor’s water data includes the total process water usage for  all steel mills, DRI facilities and product divisions. In cases  where data was unavailable, estimates were used to determine  facility water consumption. Water withdrawn and discharged in  this table represents over 90% of Nucor’s company-wide total. 2.   This"
"analysis of water stress was conducted using the World  Resources Institute Aqueduct 4.0 tool in accordance with SASB  reporting. While certain locations are in areas determined  to have high water stress, Nucor collaborates closely with  communities to maintain a stable water supply. For all  facilities, Nucor has coordinated with local water suppliers to  ensure that its operational water usage does not strain utilities  and local systems. Water Stewardship Nucor is dedicated to minimizing its"
"environmental impact by prioritizing the efficient use of water resources across all operations.  Advanced treatment systems at our steel mills enable us to recycle about 90% of our water up to 8-10 times before disposal,  significantly reducing water consumption and waste.  To maintain compliance with the Clean Water Act (CWA), we proactively identify and manage new or emerging water pollutants. The  CWA establishes water quality standards and regulates the discharge of pollutants into U.S."
"waters, requiring companies to monitor and  control substances that could harm water quality. By adhering to these standards, Nucor not only complies with federal regulations but  also demonstrates corporate responsibility and safeguards local ecosystems, including critical drinking water sources.  In addition to recycling efforts, Nucor has constructed stormwater retention ponds at our facilities to capture and reuse runoff. We are  mindful of the essential role water plays in our cooling"
"processes and strive to mitigate the potential adverse impacts of excessive  water withdrawal on local ecosystems and communities. These measures reflect our commitment to environmental stewardship and  the sustainable management of water resources.  52 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index President’s Environmental Award  Forty-eight of our locations are recipients of"
"Nucor’s President’s Environmental Award,  designed to highlight Nucor facilities that achieve the highest levels of environmental  excellence, while never losing sight of the fact that programs and systems need to  continue to evolve and improve. Raw Materials Group •      RMG – Central •         RMG – South •   RMG – West  •   Nu-Iron Unlimited   •   Nucor Steel Louisiana Steel Mills •     Nucor Steel Auburn  •   Nucor Steel Birmingham   •      Nucor Steel Connecticut   •     Nucor Steel"
"Jackson   •         Nucor Steel Kankakee •  Nucor Steel Kingman   •         Nucor Steel Memphis   •         Nucor Steel Nebraska  •         Nucor Steel Seattle  •  Nucor Steel Sedalia •   Nucor Steel South Carolina  •   Nucor Steel Texas  •    Nucor Steel Tuscaloosa  •       Nucor Steel Utah  Product Divisions •   American Buildings Company Midwest   •  Kirby Building Systems   •      Nucor Building Systems Indiana   •      Nucor Building Systems Alabama    •     Nucor Building Systems CBC   •"
"Nucor Building Systems South Carolina    •      Nucor Building Systems Utah    •        Nucor Coatings  •       Laurel Steel   •        Nucor Cold Finish Nebraska  •   Nucor Cold Finish South Carolina  •     Nucor Cold Finish Utah   •      Nucor St. Louis Cold Drawn  •   Nucor LMP  •    Nucor Tubular Products  Birmingham   •  Nucor Tubular Products Cedar Springs   •        Nucor Tubular Products Chicago   •      Nucor Tubular Products Decatur   •      Nucor Tubular Products Louisville   •"
"Nucor Tubular Products Madison   •      Nucor Tubular Products Marseilles  •    Nucor Tubular Products Trinity   •      Vulcraft Alabama   •    Vulcraft Indiana   •    Vulcraft Nebraska   •   Vulcraft New York   •   Vulcraft South Carolina   •     Vulcraft Texas   •      Vulcraft Utah   2024 President’s  Environmental Award Recipients  53 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI"
"Index POLICY ENGAGEMENT 53 Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Letter from the CEO Table of Contents  54 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index As North America’s largest recycler and most diversified steel and steel  products company, Nucor regularly engages with government"
"officials on  regulatory and policy issues that concern our company and the U.S. steel  industry, as well as the broader manufacturing sector in which we, and  many of our customers, operate. For more than five decades, Nucor has  established a circular model of steel production with a low-carbon footprint,  accomplished through the recycling of scrap metal into new steel and steel  products utilizing EAF technology.  Our key policy priorities include a level playing field for trade,"
"infrastructure  investment, strong Buy America provisions, advancing clean energy, ensuring  America’s competitive advantage in producing low-carbon steel, and creating  greater awareness of the essential role a circular model of steel production  with a low-carbon footprint must play in a modern and sustainable economy.  Addressing Carbon Emissions As a global leader in producing steel with low carbon emissions, Nucor has  become involved in international efforts to further reduce emissions."
"Nucor is a  member of the United Nations 24/7 Carbon-Free Energy Global Compact, which  is aimed at accelerating the decarbonization of the world’s electricity systems  to mitigate climate change and ensure access to clean, reliable and affordable  electricity. Recycling scrap steel into new steel products is currently the lowest  emitting steel production process available at scale, but it requires significant  amounts of electricity. We believe that growing demand for energy will require"
"utilizing all forms of clean, zero-carbon energy sources, including nuclear, hydro,  solar and wind.  As a founding member of the Global Steel Climate Council (GSCC), a coalition  advocating for a single, transparent global emission standard that is focused on  steelmaking emissions, we are committed to a net-zero 2050 science-based GHG  target. In 2023, Nucor became the first diversified steel maker in North America  with net-zero, science-based GHG targets for 2050, including Scopes 1, 2 & 3."
"And  in early 2025, we announced that our science-based emissions reduction targets  received certification by the GSCC.  Nucor will continue to be an industry leader in GHG transparency. Reporting will  continue to be third-party verified. We will share our plans, and the actions needed  to achieve our goals. Infrastructure Investments We continue to see demand for our products from efforts to reshore manufacturing,  repower the electrical grid and rebuild domestic infrastructure. These"
"projects  are steel intensive, and our product capabilities are well-suited for the related  opportunities; for example, rebar and beams are a good fit for the development of  chip fabrication plants; plate, beam and rebar for transportation infrastructure; tube,  sheet and plate for power generation and transmission applications.   We have also seen the expansion of strong Buy America provisions, which help  to ensure that U.S. infrastructure is modernized using domestic steel. Nucor  produces"
"more than a quarter of our nation’s raw steel, and we do so with one- third the GHG intensity of a traditional extractive producer.  55 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Trade — Leveling the Playing Field Nucor has consistently advocated for a level playing field for American steel manufacturers. The  governments of many countries subsidize — or even own — steel"
"producing companies, and this often leads  to these companies selling steel at artificially low prices that are harmful to the American steel industry.  Foreign steel is also oftentimes produced in a manner that disproportionately impacts the environment and  does not protect worker safety to the extent we have come to demand in the United States.   The steel Nucor manufactures at our facilities throughout the U.S. is simply more sustainable on many  levels. It is made with a higher percentage"
"of recycled content, less and cleaner energy, and consequently  has lower GHG emissions per ton produced. In addition, steel manufacturing in the United States  must comply with strict standards for worker safety and environmental protection, as required by the  Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and other  regulatory agencies. In practice, we strive to far outperform minimum regulatory requirements such as  these and keep our focus on what is"
"best for long-term value creation that benefits all our stakeholders.  During the first quarter of 2025, we were pleased to see the Trump Administration issue Section 232 25%  tariffs on steel imports from all sources, ending exclusions and exemptions, and broadening the application  of the tariffs to fabricated steel and other derivative products. We expect this comprehensive action to  improve capacity utilization in the domestic steel and steel construction products sectors, while also"
"lowering the overall GHG footprint of the steel used in the United States. With a score of 97.1%, Nucor is in the top tier of all companies, and  considered a Trendsetter, on the CPA-Zicklin Index, which seeks  to bring transparency and accountability to corporate political  spending. We continue to evaluate our lobbying activities and  political disclosures, aiming for best-in-class standing for both  accountability and effectiveness at advancing the interests of Nucor  and its stakeholders."
"56 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Political Activity & Accountability Nucor has a dedicated Public Affairs team which manages our efforts to provide clear  and relevant information to governmental agencies and legislative bodies charged  with regulating the U.S. steel industry. While doing so, this team conducts itself in a  manner consistent with our Standards"
"of Business Conduct and Ethics and adheres to  all applicable laws and regulations regarding lobbying activities. On a regular basis, the  Public Affairs team presents policy priorities, initiatives and expenditures to our Board  of Directors and our Governance and Nominating Committee, which has oversight of all  lobbying activities. We file quarterly lobbying disclosure forms with the Clerk of the House  of Representatives and the Secretary of the Senate as required by the federal Lobbying"
"Disclosure Act. Disclosure forms are also filed as necessary in the 21 states where we  engage in lobbying.   Nucor complies with federal, state and local campaign finance laws and regulations  governing political contributions and the disclosure of these contributions. In  accordance with federal law, Nucor does not contribute to any political candidates,  parties or committees at the federal level. Contributions to federal candidates and  committees are allowed only through the Nucor"
"Corporation Political Action Committee,  which is funded through voluntary contributions from eligible U.S. teammates. Nucor PAC  fully discloses all contributions made and received through reports filed with the Federal  Election Commission.   Nucor also maintains memberships in various trade associations that we believe share and  will otherwise further the goals of Nucor. Such associations provide both a useful forum for  discussing issues of general industry significance and a powerful"
"platform for advocating  positions on issues of importance to the members. While associations in which Nucor is a  member may occasionally take positions on issues that are not representative of Nucor’s,  overall, we believe that Nucor’s membership in such associations is in the long-term  interest of Nucor and our stockholders.  Six of the trade associations we participate in conduct advocacy and/or lobbying activities.  We pay annual dues in excess of $50,000 to four of these: Concrete"
"Reinforcing Steel  Institute, Clean Energy Buyers Association, National Association of Manufacturers, and the  Steel Manufacturers Association. For our assessment of these entities’ stances regarding  climate change and the energy transition, please click here.  Our lobbying efforts and contributions are used to promote policies favorable to the steel  industry and they are not based on the political preferences of any individual employed  by Nucor. For further information on our political"
"spending, lobbying and trade association  support, please click here.  57 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index GRI INDEX 57 Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index Letter from the CEO Table of Contents  58 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value"
"Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index General Disclosures Information or Page Reference G2: General Disclosures 2021 2-1 Organizational details  Who We Are & How We Create Value, please see page 5-10. 2024 Nucor Corporation 10-K Filing, please see page 1-9. Nucor Overview 2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting Who We Are & How We Create Value, please see pages 5-10. Environmental Performance, please see page"
"40. 2024 Nucor Corporation 10-K Filing, please see pages 1-7. 2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point Nucor’s 2024 Corporate Sustainability Report encompasses data for the calendar year  2024, except where explicitly indicated otherwise. For questions regarding this report or any sustainability initiatives, please contact  investor@nucor.com. 2-4 Restatements of information No restatements are included in this report. 2-5 External assurance Governance, please see pages 15-16."
"Environmental Performance, please see page 40. 2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships Who We Are & How We Create Value, please see pages 6-12. 2024 Nucor Corporation 10-K Filing, please see pages 1-9. 2-7 Employees Letter From The CEO, please see page 3. Nucor 2023 EEO-1 Report Safety, Teammates & Community, please see pages 24-37. 2-9 Governance structure and composition Governance, please see pages 15-16. 2024 Nucor Corporation 10-K Filing, please see pages 29-31. Nucor"
"Board of Directors 2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body Governance, please see pages 15-16. Corporate Governance Principles Governance and Nominating Committee Charter 2-11 Chair of the highest governance body Governance, please see page 15. 2024 Nucor Corporation 10-K Filing, please see page 31. Nucor Board of Directors 2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the  management of impacts Governance, please see pages 15-16. Nucor Board of Directors  59 Table"
"of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index G2: General Disclosures 2021 2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts Governance, please see pages 15-16. Nucor Board of Directors 2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting Governance, please see page 16. 2-15 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance Principles 2-16 Communication of critical"
"concerns Nucor Whistleblower Program 2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body Nucor 2025 Proxy Statement Nucor Board of Directors 2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body Corporate Governance Principles Compensation and Executive Development Committee Charter 2-19 Remuneration policies Corporate Governance Principles Compensation and Executive Development Committee Charter 2-20 Process to determine remuneration Corporate Governance Principles Compensation"
"and Executive Development Committee Charter 2-21 Annual total compensation ratio Nucor 2025 Proxy Statement, please see page 49. 2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy Letter From The CEO, please see page 3. Nucor 2025 Proxy Statement, please see pages i-ii. 2-23 Policy commitments Governance, please see page 16. Nucor Policies 2-24 Embedding policy commitments Governance,please see page 16. Nucor Policies 2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts Standards of Business Conduct and"
"Ethics Nucor Whistleblower Program 2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics Nucor Whistleblower Program 2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations 2024 Nucor Corporation 10-K Filing, please see page 29. General Disclosures Information or Page Reference  60 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index G2: General"
"Disclosures 2021 2-28 Membership associations Safety, Teammates & Community, please see pages 27-28, 35-37.  Policy Engagement, please see pages 55-56. 2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement We conduct focused stakeholder engagement through surveys, social media, formal  communication, stakeholder outreach programs, team meetings and one-on-one discussions. 2-30 Collective bargaining agreements Nucor Human Rights Policy Supplier Code of Conduct GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-1 Process to"
"determine material topics Nucor determined its material topics for the Global Reporting Initiative by employing a  comprehensive approach that integrated stakeholder engagement, internal company  operations, historical reporting and a review of peer practices.  3-2 List of material topics •      Economic Impacts •      Policy •        Materials and Suppliers •       Energy •        Water •         Emissions •     Waste •         Safety and Teammates •  Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 3-3"
"Management of material topics A comprehensive review of the organization’s impact across various dimensions,  including economic, environmental, and societal, is continuously evaluated.  Policy Engagement, please see pages 54-56. GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2024 Nucor Corporation 10-K Filing, please see pages 36-47. 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to  climate change Nucor TCFD, please see pages 7-8."
"201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 2024 Nucor Corporation 10-K Filing, please see pages 74-76. General Disclosures Information or Page Reference  61 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Nucor is building its new state-of-the-art sheet mill in"
"Mason County, West Virginia. The  West Virginia location on the Ohio River provides Nucor with important transportation  and logistics advantages, and a strengthened ability to serve customers in the  Midwest and Northeast, the two largest sheet consuming regions in the U.S.  When fully  operational, the new mill will employ approximately 800 full-time teammates.   203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Safety, Teammates & Community, please see pages 35-37. GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 2016"
"205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 100% of our business operation and every functional area is included in our annual risk  assessment, which includes bribery and corruption risk as a standard item. 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies  and procedures 100% of governance body members and teammates have had our anti-corruption  policies and procedures communicated to them.  205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No incidents GRI"
"206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and  monopoly practices In 2021, Nucor and other US steel producers were named in a federal antitrust case  entitled JSW Steel (USA) Inc, and JSW Steel USA Ohio, Inc. v. Nucor Corp. United States.  Steel Corp., AK Steel Holding Corp., and Cleveland-Cliffs Inc. This Texas action alleged  that Nucor, U.S. Steel, AK Steel, and Cleveland-Cliffs participated in a group boycott to  prevent JSW from"
"purchasing steel slabs. Nucor moved to dismiss this action and the  District Court granted Nucor’s motion to dismiss with prejudice. JSW Steel appealed the  decision to the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals. On March 17, 2025, the Fifth Circuit Court of  Appeals unanimously affirmed the dismissal of JSW Steel’s claims, and Nucor considers  this matter to be closed. GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-2 Recycled input materials used 2024 Recycled Content Letter - Mill Products 2024 Recycled Content Letter -"
"Downstream Products GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption inside of the organization Environmental Performance,  please see pages 45-46. 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Environmental Performance, please see pages 45-46. 302-3 Energy intensity Environmental Performance, please see pages 45-46. General Disclosures Information or Page Reference  62 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community"
"Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Environmental Performance, please see pages 45-46. 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Environmental Performance, please see pages 45-46. GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Environmental Performance, please see page 51. 303-2 Management of water discharge- related impacts Environmental Performance, please"
"see page 51. 303-3 Water withdrawal Environmental Performance, please see page 51. 303-4 Water discharge Environmental Performance, please see page 51. 303-5 Water consumption Environmental Performance, please see page 51. GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environmental Performance, please see page 40. 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environmental Performance, please see page 40. 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environmental Performance,"
"please see page 40. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Environmental Performance, please see pages 40-41. 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Environmental Performance, please see pages 40-41. 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Ozone-depleting potential per product is reported in each of Nucor’s Environmental Product Declarations. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx) and other significant  air emissions SASB Report, please see page 6. General Disclosures Information or Page"
"Reference  63 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index GRI 306: Waste 2020 306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts Environmental Performance, please see page 50. 306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts Environmental Performance, please see page 50. 306-3 Waste generated Environmental Performance, please see page 50. 306-4 Waste diverted"
"from disposal Environmental Performance, please see page 50. 306-5 Waste directed to disposal Environmental Performance, please see page 50. GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Each of our divisions uses Virtual Compliance to screen all potential international suppliers. GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1  New employee hires and employee turnover Safety, Teammates & Community, please see page 26. 401-2 Benefits provided"
"to full-time employees that are not provided  to temporary or part-time employees 2024 Nucor Corporation 10-K Filing, please see page 18. GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Nucor complies with all applicable regulations and agreements regarding notices of  operational changes to our workforce. General Disclosures Information or Page Reference  64 Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance"
"Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment and incident  investigation 100% of Nucor’s operations conduct health and safety risk assessments. 403-9 Work-related injuries Work-Related Injuries Number of Fatalities Rate of Fatalities Teammates  0 0.000 High-Consequence Work-Related Injuries Lost Work Day Cases Rate Teammates  89 0.26 Work-Related Injuries Number Rate"
"Teammates 259 0.77 403-10 Work-related ill health Work-Related Ill Health Number of Fatalities Resulting from Work-Related Ill Health Teammates 0 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition  assistance programs Safety, Teammates & Community, please see pages 28-29. Environmental Performance, please see page 50. GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Safety, Teammates & Community, please"
"see page 33. GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of  child labor Each of our divisions uses Virtual Compliance to screen all potential international suppliers. GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of  forced or compulsory labor Each of our divisions uses Virtual Compliance to screen all potential international suppliers. General Disclosures Information or Page Reference  65"
"Table of Contents Letter from the CEO Who We Are & How We Create Value Governance Safety, Teammates & Community Environmental Performance Policy Engagement GRI Index GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Each of our divisions uses Virtual Compliance to screen all potential international suppliers. GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 415-1 Political contributions Nucor Public Affairs General Disclosures Information or Page Reference"
