"2024 ANNUAL REPORT PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION  Arizona continues to be a highly attractive destination for both  residents and businesses. Our growth outlook for 2025 and beyond  remains robust, led by a dramatic increase in commercial and industrial  customers. In turn, this growth is stimulating a historic wave of  demand for electricity in our state. $0 $1 $2 $3 ‘24 ‘20 ‘21 ‘22 ‘23 ‘25 ‘26 ‘27 Projected ($ Billions) CAPEX GROWTH GLENDALE GLOBE CASA GRANDE DOUGLAS WINSLOW FLAGSTAFF YUMA"
"PRESCOTT SEDONA PHOENIX PAYSON NW SW SE  Metro NE 2.4% 2.6% 1.6% 1.6% 1.1% 1.1% 1.1% 1.3% 2.6% 2.9% 2024 APS CUSTOMER GROWTH BY REGION APS service territory is the darker shaded areas of each region. Residential Customer Growth Year Over Year Total Retail Customer Growth Year Over Year  AR 01 With sunny skies, unmatched natural beauty and hard- working, innovative people, Arizona has everything  necessary to create a vibrant economy and a sense of  opportunity. Pinnacle West Capital Corporation"
"is proud  to have been a part of this story since the beginning.  For nearly 140 years, we have been inextricably tied to  the overall success and sustained growth of Arizona.  Through our operating company Arizona Public Service  (APS), our strong and resilient electric system, affordable  energy and the dedication of our employees, we have built  a foundation for the future. We are experiencing unprecedented expansion in Arizona,  which translates into healthy growth for our company.  Though"
"this brings distinct challenges, we have the  experience and talent to address them and to successfully  transition into this new era filled with possibilities. Speaking of transition, you’ll notice that this letter comes  as the organization welcomes a new Chairman, President  and CEO of Pinnacle West and APS effective April 1. Over  the past five years, we have been dedicated to executing  on a vision to improve the customer experience, position  the company for long-term financial health and"
"enable  the workforce of the future — a future that provides  both reliable and carbon-free electricity. Throughout  our respective tenures, we have had a close and trusted  partnership that will enable a seamless succession and  continued focus on advancing our company strategy  to the benefit of shareholders and customers, alike. Dear Shareholders: Chairman,  President and CEO  Jeff Guldner (right)  and his successor,  Ted Geisler,  President of APS  AN EVOLVING CUSTOMER BASE Our customer"
"base, which for decades leaned  heavily residential, is now more diversified than  ever before. A robust increase in commercial and  industrial customers in our service territory —  including new chip manufacturing and expanding  data center operations — is leading to incredible  economic growth and triggering a historic wave  of demand for electricity in our state. The growth outlook for 2025 and beyond in our  service territory remains strong. We expect  customer growth within a range of 1.5%"
"to 2.5%  for both 2025 and the long term, as Arizona  continues to be a highly attractive destination  for both residents and businesses. Over the  next three years, we project an annual increase  in weather-normalized energy sales of 4% to  6%, with 3% to 5% contributed by growth from  large commercial and industrial customers, as  more companies choose Arizona and existing  customers continue to ramp up. As an example, construction continues in northwest  Phoenix on the massive Taiwan"
"Semiconductor  Manufacturing Company (TSMC) facility. By the end  of the decade, TSMC will have invested $65 billion  in three dedicated semiconductor fabs. The first  began high-volume chip production in the fourth  quarter of 2024. Amkor Technology also has announced plans to  invest $2 billion in a semiconductor advanced  packaging and testing facility to be built in nearby  Peoria, Ariz., creating more than 2,000 jobs. Both  companies, along with an already strong Arizona  presence by Intel,"
"will stimulate many suppliers  and related manufacturing and service entities  to establish operations here, further increasing  growth for our state and APS. TSMC and the nearby  science and manufacturing park alone will create  approximately 62,000 jobs. Expanding data center operations in Arizona — by  companies such as Microsoft and Compass — will  have similar impact on our state’s growth. Meanwhile, our residential customer base also  continues to grow. In 2024, we installed more than"
"32,000 new residential meters, the most since the  Great Recession. Continued adoption of electric  vehicles, smart appliances and smart thermostats,  as examples, will accelerate that growth even with  continued efficiency gains. From our inception in 1886, it has taken APS  nearly 140 years for our system to exceed 8,000  megawatts (MW) in peak customer demand. We  expect that number to grow to more than 13,000  MW over the next 14 years — an increase of 60%. To clarify, it is not growth for"
"the sake of growth we  are seeking. We are pursuing smart growth that can  help us develop a cleaner and more efficient energy  supply while ensuring reliability and keeping bills  as low as possible for customers. The result will  be a stronger Arizona for the long term.  AR 03 RELIABILITY FOR ALL SEASONS Reliability remains at the core of our service to  customers and drives our plans to provide a diverse  energy portfolio delivering power at reasonable  rates. The most important numbers that"
"measure  reliability place us solidly in the top quartile of  electric utilities across the nation. To continue  meeting the requirements of our state’s growth,  we expect to add 9,805 MW of renewable energy,  battery storage and natural gas to our system  between 2025 and 2028 — more than 90% of which  will be carbon free. Among our highlights: •      Power purchase agreements are expected to add  3,321 MW of solar power along with 168 MW from  the APS-owned Ironwood Solar Plant, currently"
"under construction in Yuma County. •      At the Agave Solar Plant in Maricopa County,  construction is under way on 150 MW of  battery energy storage that will deliver solar  energy to customers after sunset. •       We have secured power purchase agreements  for an anticipated 5,087 MW of battery energy  storage that grid operators can release during  evening hours when customer demand is greatest. •     In northern Arizona’s Navajo County, we have  secured 500 MW of additional wind power. •"
"And, we are expanding our existing Sundance  and Redhawk natural gas-fired power plants.  These additions are expected to deliver a  combined 487 MW, providing much-needed  energy during peak consumption hours. Just as  important, they will provide a critical complement  to the large quantities of solar and battery energy  storage we’re adding to our system. Once again, our employees adapted to the  demands of what proved to be the hottest summer  on record, avoiding any sustained major outages"
"across our service territory — and they did so  safely. In 2024, APS proudly achieved a milestone of  zero employee Serious Injury and Fatality incidents,   Pinnacle West Capital Corporation and 20th overall — Palo Verde Generating Station’s  three nuclear units exceeded 30 million MWh of  net generation. Importantly, the plant remains  a cornerstone of our aspirational goal to deliver  100% clean, carbon-free energy by 2050 and a  nearer-term target to achieve a resource mix that  is 65% clean"
"by 2030. Our efforts to expand wildfire prevention and  mitigation measures — and strengthen smart  grid resilience — remain essential as we have  witnessed the damage fires have inflicted in  neighboring states. We are committed to reducing  wildfire risk to customers and communities we  serve by leveraging innovative technologies to  increase situational awareness and help assess  fire probability and spread; conducting year-round  inspections and preventative maintenance; and  proactively"
"managing vegetation. We’ve also spent  about $828 million annually since 2022 on grid  resilience investments across our system. a testament to our rigorous safety focus and  the collective effort of our dedicated team of  employees. This commitment paid dividends  through 113 consecutive days above 100 degrees  in Phoenix in 2024, the longest stretch in Arizona  history. In turn, APS customers set a peak energy  demand record of 8,210 MW on Sunday, Aug. 4,  breaking the prior record of 8,162 MW"
"from 2023. Customers participating in our Cool Rewards  smart thermostat program once again stepped  up when needed, creating a “virtual power plant.”  In exchange for a bill credit, they collectively  conserved about 160 MW of energy through more  than 98,000 smart thermostats, successfully  relieving strain on the electric grid when energy  supplies were most needed. During this period — and the full year for that  matter — our generating fleet operated extremely  well and was available when"
"our customers critically  needed the power. For the 16th consecutive year —   AR 05 A FINANCIAL APPROACH DESIGNED FOR GROWTH In addition to our competitive power procurement  process, our participation in day-ahead and real- time power markets helps to keep costs as low  as possible for customers, along with efficient  operating and maintenance (O&M) procedures  targeted to reduce O&M costs per megawatt-hour  over time. Lean operations and efficiency will drive  cost management into the future."
"To meet the needs of our growing service territory,  timely recovery of our investments and operating  costs remains an essential element of the  regulatory compact. We continue to work with the  Arizona Corporation Commission (ACC), our primary  regulator, to reduce regulatory lag. Late in 2024,  the ACC adopted an important policy statement on  formula rate plans, a crucial tool that — if adopted in  a future rate case — should help reduce regulatory  lag on investment, promote rate gradualism"
"for customers, and reduce financing costs for  customers over time. Moreover, the System  Reliability Benefit surcharge, approved in our 2022  rate case, should help meaningfully increase the  portion of our capital investments receiving more  timely recovery, including our new APS-owned  generation facilities. Our capital plan from 2024 through 2027 includes  $9.65 billion of investments, a 24% increase from  the plan we shared in early 2024. This plan is  focused on strengthening"
"infrastructure, improving  reliability and meeting the demands of our  rapidly growing service territory, including new  generation and transmission resources. These  investments are expected to drive rate base growth  of 6% to 8% annually. Our financial strategy is designed to support this  fast-emerging growth, with a continued focus  on balancing investment, cost recovery and  maintaining reliability, while keeping customer bills  as low as possible. In 2024, Pinnacle West achieved year-end"
"earnings  of $5.24 per diluted share of common stock, driven  largely by the impact of new retail rates, robust  customer and sales growth, and the effects of a  second consecutive summer of record-breaking  weather. These results were above our initial  expectations at the year’s onset and reflect the  success of our operations, our strategies and our  employees’ ability to execute those strategies. Also, in 2024, our Board of Directors increased our  shareholder dividend for a 13th consecutive"
"year. STRONG DIVIDEND TRACK RECORD Annualized Dividends per Share $1 $0 $2 $3 $4 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 ~4.1%  CAGR* $2.50 $3.58 * Compound Annual Growth Rate  Pinnacle West Capital Corporation COMMITTED TO PEOPLE We remain committed to assist our communities  with energy support and heat-relief programs.  This past year, APS increased its energy support  and crisis bill assistance; maintained a summer  moratorium on disconnects for past-due bills;  assisted customers"
"with payment arrangements;  and partnered with more than 100 local non-profit  and community agencies to connect the state’s  most vulnerable populations with helpful resources. As a result of our year-over-year customer-focused  strategy and actions, we are proud to report  ongoing progress in customer satisfaction, as  measured by J.D. Power. We ranked at the top of the  second quartile for large investor-owned utilities  for both business and residential customers in  2024. Collectively,"
"these are our highest rank and  placements since 2016. In fact, this past year,  residential customers ranked APS at or near the  top of our peer set for Phone Customer Care,  Power Quality & Reliability, Billing & Payment and  Corporate Citizenship. Newsweek also recognized  APS as one of America’s most trusted companies  in 2024. ARIZONA TOP-RANKING CORPORATE PHILANTHROPY  AND VOLUNTEER PROGRAMS APS was ranked #1 in Arizona by  The Phoenix Business Journal for  our 2024 giving and philanthropy"
"program and #3 for our corporate  volunteer programs. APS CUSTOMER SATISFACTION RANKING* 2021 2024 Residential  Customers 4th Quartile Top of  2nd Quartile Business  Customers 4th Quartile Top of  2nd Quartile * Per J.D. Power  07 AR Since our founding, our company has planned for the  future of our state and learned a lot of things along  the way. We’ve leveraged these learnings to improve  the customer experience, shareholder value,  operational excellence and business integrity. We are proud"
"of where we have been and, even more  so, to prepare for what’s ahead — as a company,  state and industry. Thank you for your confidence and investment  in Pinnacle West. Jeff Guldner Chairman, President  and CEO Ted Geisler President of APS  Pinnacle West Capital Corporation BOARD MEMBERS Jeffrey B. Guldner Chairman of the Board, President and  Chief Executive Officer, Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation and Chairman  of the Board and Chief Executive  Officer, Arizona Public Service Company"
"Glynis A. Bryan Former Chief Financial Officer,  Insight Enterprises, Inc. Ronald Butler, Jr. Retired Arizona Managing Partner,  Ernst & Young Gonzalo A. De La Melena, Jr. Founder and Chief Executive Officer,  Emerging Airport Ventures Carol S. Eicher Former CEO, Innocor, Inc. Susan T. Flanagan Operating Partner, Apollo Global  Management Richard P. Fox Independent Consultant and former  Managing Partner, Ernst & Young Theodore N. Geisler President, Arizona Public Service  Company Bruce J."
"Nordstrom Of Counsel and CPA,  Nordstrom & Associates, PC Paula J. Sims Retired Professor of Practice,  University of North Carolina Kenan- Flagler Business School, and former  Senior Vice President of Corporate  Development and Improvement and  Chief Integration Officer for Duke/ Progress Merger  William H. Spence Former Chairman, President and Chief  Executive Officer, PPL Corporation Kristine L. Svinicki Adjunct Professor of Nuclear  Engineering and Radiological Sciences,  University of"
"Michigan and former  Chairman of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory  Commission James E. Trevathan, Jr. Former Executive Vice President  and Chief Operating Officer,  Waste Management, Inc. OFFICERS Jeffrey B. Guldner Chairman of the Board, President and  Chief Executive Officer, Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation and Chairman  of the Board and Chief Executive  Officer, Arizona Public Service Company Robert S. Aiken Vice President, Federal Affairs,  Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Christopher R."
"Bauer Vice President and Treasurer, Pinnacle  West Capital Corporation and Arizona  Public Service Company Shirley A. Baum Senior Vice President, General Counsel,  Pinnacle West Capital Corporation and  Arizona Public Service Company Ann C. Becker Vice President, Sustainability,  Arizona Public Service Company Elizabeth A. Blankenship Vice President, Controller and Chief  Accounting Officer, Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation and Arizona Public  Service Company Brian W. Cole Vice President,"
"Resource Management,  Arizona Public Service Company Andrew D. Cooper Senior Vice President and Chief  Financial Officer, Pinnacle West Capital  Corporation and Arizona Public Service  Company Stacy L. Derstine Vice President, External Affairs,  Arizona Public Service Company Jose L. Esparza Senior Vice President, Public Policy,  Arizona Public Service Company Michelle M. Ferrara Vice President and Chief Information  Officer, Arizona Public Service Company Theodore N. Geisler President, Arizona"
"Public Service  Company Cary D. Harbor Senior Vice President, Site Operations,  Palo Verde Generating Station, Arizona  Public Service Company Adam C. Heflin Executive Vice President and Chief  Nuclear Officer, Palo Verde Generating  Station, Arizona Public Service Company John P. Hernandez Vice President, Site Services,  Palo Verde Generating Station,  Arizona Public Service Company Michael J. Kohrt, Jr. Vice President, Generation, Arizona  Public Service Company John R. Lucas Vice President,"
"New Generation,  Arizona Public Service Company Albert R. “Rex” Meeden Vice President, Nuclear Engineering,  Palo Verde Generating Station,  Arizona Public Service Company Paul J. Mountain Vice President, Finance and Planning,  Pinnacle West Capital Corporation and  Arizona Public Service Company Alison L. Salem Assistant Corporate Secretary,  Pinnacle West Capital Corporation and  Arizona Public Service Company Robert E. Smith Executive Vice President, Chief Legal  Officer and Chief Development"
"Officer,  Pinnacle West Capital Corporation and  Arizona Public Service Company Jennifer L. Spina Vice President, Nuclear Regulatory  and Oversight, Palo Verde Generating  Station, Arizona Public Service  Company Shannon M. Standaert Vice President, Human Resources,  Arizona Public Service Company Traci L. Stooks-Dermer Vice President, Operations Support,  Arizona Public Service Company Jacob Tetlow Executive Vice President and Chief  Operating Officer, Arizona Public  Service Company Tony J."
"Tewelis Senior Vice President, Transmission and  Distribution Operations, Arizona Public  Service Company Monica Whiting Vice President, Customer Experience  and Communications, Arizona Public  Service Company Diane Wood Corporate Secretary, Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation and Arizona Public  Service Company Board Members  &  Officers  UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 10-K    (Mark One)         ☒ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE"
"SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024    OR   ☐      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   For the transition period from              to              Commission File Number   Exact Name of Each Registrant as specified in its charter; State of Incorporation; Address; and Telephone Number IRS Employer Identification No. 1-8962   PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION 86-0512431 (an Arizona corporation) 400"
"North Fifth Street, P.O. Box 53999 Phoenix Arizona 85072-3999 (602) 250-1000 1-4473   ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY 86-0011170 (an Arizona corporation) 400 North Fifth Street, P.O. Box 53999 Phoenix Arizona 85072-3999 (602) 250-1000   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:     Title Of Each Class   Trading Symbol Name Of Each Exchange On Which Registered PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL  CORPORATION   Common Stock, No Par Value   PNW New York Stock Exchange   Securities registered"
"pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY             Common Stock, Par Value $2.50 per share   Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION Yes ☒  No  ☐  ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY Yes ☒  No  ☐    Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION Yes"
"☐ No ☒  ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY Yes ☐ No ☒    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the  preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION Yes ☒  No  ☐  ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY Yes ☒  No  ☐"
"Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be  submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such   files). PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION Yes ☒  No  ☐  ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY Yes ☒  No  ☐    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a"
"large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth  company.  PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION Large accelerated filer ☒  Accelerated filer  ☐ Non-accelerated filer  ☐ Smaller reporting company  ☐ Emerging growth company  ☐   ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY Large accelerated filer ☐ Accelerated filer  ☐ Non-accelerated filer  ☒  Smaller reporting company  ☐ Emerging growth company  ☐   If an emerging growth company, indicate"
"by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised  financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐ Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial  reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public"
"accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report. ☒  If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the filing reflect the  correction of an error to previously issued financial statements.  ☐ Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation received by any of the  registrant's executive"
"officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). ☐ Indicate by check mark whether each registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION Yes    ☐ No  ☒  ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY Yes    ☐ No  ☒  State the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates, computed by reference to the price at which the common equity was  last sold, or the average bid and asked price of"
"such common equity, as of the last business day of each registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter: PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION   $  8,663,553,568 as of June 30, 2024 ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY   $  0 as of June 30, 2024   Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer’s classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date. PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION Number of shares of common stock, no par value, outstanding as of February 20, 2025:"
"119,099,064 ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY Number of shares of common stock, $2.50 par value, outstanding as of February 20, 2025: 71,264,947   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE Portions of Pinnacle West Capital Corporation’s definitive Proxy Statement relating to its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 21, 2025 are incorporated  by reference into Part III hereof.   Arizona Public Service Company meets the conditions set forth in General Instruction I(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K"
"and is therefore filing this form with the  reduced disclosure format allowed under that General Instruction.  TABLE OF CONTENTS       Page   GLOSSARY OF NAMES AND TECHNICAL TERMS ii  FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 1  PART I   3 Item 1. Business 3 Item 1A. Risk Factors 33 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 48 Item 1C. Cybersecurity 48 Item 2. Properties 50 Item 3. Legal Proceedings 52 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 52 Information about our Executive Officers 53  PART II   55 Item 5. Market for"
"Registrants’ Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of  Equity Securities 55 Item 6.  [Reserved] 56 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 57 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 88 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 89 Pinnacle West Financial Statements 95 APS Financial Statements 106 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial"
"Disclosure 202 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 202 Item 9B. Other Information 203 Item 9C. Disclosure Regarding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 203 PART III   203 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of Pinnacle West 203 Item 11. Executive Compensation 203 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder  Matters 203 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 205 Item"
"14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 205  PART IV   206 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 206 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 227 SIGNATURES 228   This combined Form 10-K is separately filed by Pinnacle West Capital Corporation (“Pinnacle West”) and Arizona  Public Service Company (“APS”).  Any use of the words “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to Pinnacle West unless the  context otherwise requires.  Each registrant is filing on its own behalf all of the information"
"contained in this Form 10-K that  relates to such registrant and, where required, its subsidiaries.  Except as stated in the preceding sentence, neither registrant is  filing any information that does not relate to such registrant, and therefore makes no representation as to any such information.   The information required with respect to each company is set forth within the applicable items.  Item 8 of this report includes  Consolidated Financial Statements of Pinnacle West and Consolidated"
"Financial Statements of APS.  Item 8 also includes  Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. i  GLOSSARY OF NAMES AND TECHNICAL TERMS AC Alternating Current ACC Arizona Corporation Commission ADEQ Arizona Department of Environmental Quality AFUDC Allowance for Funds Used During Construction ANPP Arizona Nuclear Power Project, also known as Palo Verde APS Arizona Public Service Company, a subsidiary of the Company ARO Asset retirement obligations ATM Program At-the-market equity"
"distribution program Base Fuel Rate The portion of APS’s retail base rates attributable to fuel and purchased power costs BCE Bright Canyon Energy Corporation CAISO California Independent System Operator Captive Captive Insurance Cell CCR Coal combustion residuals Cholla Cholla Power Plant DG Distributed Generation DOE United States Department of Energy DOI United States Department of the Interior DSM Demand side management EES Energy Efficiency Standard EGU Electric generating unit El Dorado El"
"Dorado Investment Company, a subsidiary of the Company EPA United States Environmental Protection Agency FERC United States Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Four Corners Four Corners Power Plant GHG Greenhouse gas GWh Gigawatt-hour, one billion watts per hour kV Kilovolt, one thousand volts kWh Kilowatt-hour, one thousand watts per hour LFCR Lost Fixed Cost Recovery Mechanism MW Megawatt, one million watts MWh Megawatt-hour, one million watts per hour Native Load Retail and wholesale sales"
"supplied under traditional cost-based rate regulation Navajo Plant Navajo Generating Station NERC North American Electric Reliability Corporation NRC United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission NTEC Navajo Transitional Energy Company, LLC OCI Other comprehensive income Palo Verde Palo Verde Generating Station or PVGS Pinnacle West Pinnacle West Capital Corporation (any use of the words “Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to Pinnacle West  unless the context requires otherwise) PNW Power"
"Pinnacle West Power, LLC, a subsidiary of the Company PPA Power Purchase Agreement PSA Power Supply Adjustor Redhawk Redhawk Power Plant RES Arizona Renewable Energy Standard and Tariff Salt River Project or SRP Salt River Project Agricultural Improvement and Power District SCE Southern California Edison Company Sundance Sundance Power Plant TCA Transmission cost adjustor TEAM Tax expense adjustor mechanism VIE Variable interest entity Table of Contents ii  FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS   This"
"document contains forward-looking statements based on current expectations.  These forward- looking statements are often identified by words such as “estimate,” “predict,” “may,” “believe,” “plan,”  “expect,” “require,” “intend,” “assume,” “project,” “anticipate,” “goal,” “seek,” “strategy,” “likely,”  “should,” “will,” “could,” and similar words.  Because actual results may differ materially from  expectations, we caution readers not to place undue reliance on these statements.  A number of"
"factors  could cause future results to differ materially from historical results, or from outcomes currently expected  or sought by Pinnacle West or APS.  In addition to the Risk Factors described in Item 1A and in Item 7 —  “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this report,  these factors include, but are not limited to: • uncertainties associated with the current and future economic environment, including economic growth  rates, labor market"
"conditions, inflation, supply chain delays, increased expenses, volatile capital markets,  or other unpredictable effects; • current and future economic conditions in Arizona, such as the housing market and overall business and  regulatory environment; • our ability to manage capital expenditures and operations and maintenance costs while maintaining  reliability and customer service levels; • the direct or indirect effect on our facilities or business from cybersecurity threats or intrusions,"
"data  security breaches, terrorist attack, physical attack, severe storms, or other catastrophic events, such as fires,  explosions, pandemic health events, or similar occurrences; • variations in demand for electricity, including those due to weather, seasonality (including large increases in  ambient temperatures), the general economy or social conditions, customer and sales growth (or decline),  the effects of energy conservation measures and DG, and technological advancements; • the"
"potential effects of climate change on our electric system, including as a result of weather extremes,  such as prolonged drought and high temperature variations in the area where APS conducts its business; • power plant and transmission system performance and outages; • competition in retail and wholesale power markets; • regulatory and judicial decisions, developments, and proceedings; • new legislation, ballot initiatives, and regulation or interpretations of existing legislation or"
"regulations,  including those relating to environmental requirements, regulatory and energy policy, nuclear plant  operations, and potential deregulation of retail electric markets; • fuel and water supply availability; • our ability to achieve timely and adequate rate recovery of our costs through our rates and adjustor recovery  mechanisms, including returns on and of debt and equity capital investment; • the ability of APS to meet renewable energy and energy efficiency mandates and recover"
"related costs; • the ability of APS to achieve its clean energy goals (including a goal by 2050 of 100% clean, carbon-free  electricity) and, if these goals are achieved, the impact of such achievement on APS, its customers, and its  business, financial condition, and results of operations; • risks inherent in the operation of nuclear facilities, including spent fuel disposal uncertainty; • the development of new technologies which may affect electric sales or delivery, including as a result of"
"delays in the development and application of new technologies; • the cost of debt, including increased cost as a result of rising interest rates, and equity capital and our ability  to access capital markets when required; • environmental, economic, and other concerns surrounding coal-fired generation, including regulation of  GHG; • volatile fuel and purchased power costs; • the investment performance of the assets of our nuclear decommissioning trust, captive insurance cell,  pension, and"
"other postretirement benefit plans, and the resulting impact on future funding requirements; • the liquidity of wholesale power markets and the use of derivative contracts in our business; Table of Contents 1  • potential shortfalls in insurance coverage; • new accounting requirements or new interpretations of existing requirements; • generation, transmission, and distribution facilities and system conditions and operating costs; • our ability to meet the anticipated future need for additional"
"generation and associated transmission  facilities in our region; • the willingness or ability of counterparties, power plant participants, and power plant landowners to meet  contractual or other obligations or extend the rights for continued power plant operations; and • restrictions on dividends or other provisions in our credit agreements and ACC orders. These and other factors are discussed in the Risk Factors described in Item 1A of this report, and in  Item 7 — “Management’s Discussion"
"and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of  this report, which readers should review carefully before placing any reliance on our financial statements  or disclosures.  Neither Pinnacle West nor APS assumes any obligation to update these statements, even if  our internal estimates change, except as required by law. Table of Contents 2  PART I ITEM 1.  BUSINESS Pinnacle West Pinnacle West is a holding company incorporated in Arizona that conducts business through its"
"subsidiaries.  We derive essentially all of our revenues and earnings from our wholly-owned subsidiary,  APS.  APS is incorporated in Arizona and is a vertically-integrated electric utility that provides either retail  or wholesale electric service to most of Arizona, with the major exceptions of about one-half of the  Phoenix metropolitan area, the Tucson metropolitan area and Mohave County in northwestern Arizona.   Pinnacle West’s other active subsidiaries are El Dorado, an Arizona"
"corporation, and PNW Power,  a Delaware limited liability company.  BCE was a subsidiary of Pinnacle West, but was sold in January  2024.  Additional information related to these subsidiaries is provided later in this report.   Our reportable business segment is our regulated electricity segment, which consists of traditional  regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses (primarily electric service to Native Load customers)  and related activities, and includes electricity generation,"
"transmission, and distribution.  Our reportable  business segment activities are conducted primarily through our wholly-owned subsidiary, APS.    BUSINESS OF ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY   APS currently provides electric service to approximately 1.4 million customers.  We own or lease  6,540 MW of regulated generation capacity and we hold a mix of both long-term and short-term purchased  power agreements for additional capacity.  During 2024, no single purchaser or user of energy accounted"
"for more than 1.4% of our electric revenues. Table of Contents 3   The following map shows APS’s retail service territory, including the locations of its generating  facilities and principal transmission lines. Table of Contents 4  Energy Sources and Resource Planning  To serve its customers, APS obtains power through its various generation stations and through  purchased power agreements.  Resource planning is an important function necessary to meet Arizona’s  future energy needs.  APS’s"
"sources of energy by type used to supply energy to Native Load customers  during 2024 were approximately as follows: Nuclear: 21% Gas: 24% Coal: 14% Utility Scale Renewables*: 12% Customer-Sited Renewables: 7% Non-Clean Purchased Power: 8% Demand Side Management: 14% *Utility Scale Renewables include energy from biogas, biomass, geothermal, solar, and wind.  The share of APS’s energy supply being derived from clean resources was approximately 54% in  2024, which includes energy from nuclear,"
"renewables and DSM.   Clean Energy Focus Initiatives In response to climate change, APS has undertaken a number of initiatives to reduce carbon,  including renewable energy procurement and development, and promotion of programs and rates that  promote energy conservation, renewable energy use, and energy efficiency.  See “Energy Sources and  Resource Planning — Current and Future Resources” below for details of these plans and initiatives.  APS  currently has a diverse portfolio of renewable"
"resources, including biogas, biomass, geothermal, solar, and  wind.  In addition, in January 2020, APS announced its Clean Energy Commitment, a three-pronged  approach aimed at ultimately eliminating carbon-emitting resources from its electric generation resource  portfolio.  Table of Contents 5  APS’s Clean Energy Commitment consists of three parts:  • A 2050 goal to provide 100% clean, carbon-free electricity; • A 2030 target to achieve a resource mix that is 65% clean energy, with 45% of the"
"generation  portfolio coming from renewable energy; and • A plan to exit from coal-fired generation by 2031. Among other strategies, APS intends to achieve these goals through various methods such as  relying on Palo Verde, one of the nation’s largest producers of carbon-free energy; increasing clean energy  resources, including renewables; developing energy storage; exiting from coal-generated electricity;  managing demand with a modern interactive grid; promoting customer technology and energy"
"efficiency;  and optimizing regional resources.  Management takes into consideration climate change and other  environmental risks in its strategy development, business planning, and enterprise risk management  processes.  See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of  Operations” for additional information about APS’s Clean Energy Commitment.  Over this same period of time, APS also intends to harden its infrastructure in order to improve  climate"
"resiliency, which involves system and operational improvements aimed at reducing the impact of  extreme weather events and other climate-related disruptions upon APS’s operations.  Among other  resiliency strategies, APS anticipates increasing investments in a modern and more flexible electricity grid  with advanced distribution technologies.  APS plans to continue its forest management programs aimed at  reducing wildfires, as those risks become compounded by shorter, drier winters and longer,"
"hotter summers  as a result of climate change. APS prepares an annual inventory of GHG emissions from its operations.  For APS’s operations  involving fossil-fuel electricity generation and electricity transmission and distribution, APS’s annual GHG  inventory is reported to the EPA under the EPA GHG Reporting Program.  In addition to reporting to the  EPA, we publicly report Scope 1 and 2, as well as a limited number of Scope 3, GHG emissions.  This data  is then communicated to the public in"
"Pinnacle West’s annual Corporate Responsibility Report as  performance data and in CDP Reports, which are available on our website (www.pinnaclewest.com/ corporate-responsibility).  The reports provide information related to the Company and its approach to  sustainability and its workplace and environmental performance.  The information on Pinnacle West’s  website, including Corporate Responsibility Reports and CDP Reports, is not incorporated by reference  into or otherwise a part of this"
"report.  Generation Facilities   APS has ownership interests in or leases the nuclear, gas, oil, coal, and solar generating facilities as  well as energy storage facilities described below.  For additional information regarding these facilities, see  Item 2.   Nuclear Palo Verde Generating Station — Palo Verde is a 3-unit nuclear power plant located approximately  50 miles west of Phoenix, Arizona.  APS operates the plant and owns 29.1% of Palo Verde Units 1 and 3  and approximately 17% of Unit"
"2.  In addition, APS leases approximately 12.1% of Unit 2, resulting in a  29.1% combined ownership and leasehold interest in that unit.  APS has a total entitlement from Palo  Verde of 1,146 MW.   Table of Contents 6  Palo Verde Leases — In 1986, APS entered into agreements with three separate lessor trust entities  in order to sell and lease back approximately 42% of its share of Palo Verde Unit 2 and certain common  facilities.  The leaseback was originally scheduled to expire at the end of"
"2015 and contained options to  renew the leases or to purchase the leased property for fair market value at the end of the lease terms.  On  July 7, 2014, APS exercised the fixed rate lease renewal options.  The exercise of the renewal options  originally resulted in APS retaining the assets through 2023 under one lease and 2033 under the other two  leases.  On April 1, 2021, APS executed an amendment relating to the lease agreement with the term  ending in 2023.  The amendment extends the lease"
"term for this lease through 2033 and changes the lease  payment.  As a result of this amendment, APS will now retain the assets through 2033 under all three lease  agreements.  At the end of the lease renewal periods, APS will have the option to purchase the leased assets  at their fair market value, extend the leases for up to two years, or return the assets to the lessors.  See Note  17 for additional information regarding the Palo Verde Unit 2 sale leaseback transactions.   Palo Verde"
"Operating Licenses — Operation of each of the three Palo Verde Units requires an  operating license from the NRC.  The NRC issued full power operating licenses for Unit 1 in June 1985,  Unit 2 in April 1986, and Unit 3 in November 1987, and issued renewed operating licenses for each of the  three units in April 2011, which extended the licenses for Units 1, 2, and 3 to June 2045, April 2046, and  November 2047, respectively.   Palo Verde Fuel Cycle — The participant owners of Palo Verde are"
"continually identifying their  future nuclear fuel resource needs and negotiating arrangements to fill those needs.  The fuel cycle for Palo  Verde is comprised of the following stages: • Mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium concentrates; • Conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride; • Enrichment of uranium hexafluoride; • Fabrication of fuel assemblies; • Utilization of fuel assemblies in reactors; and • Storage and preparation for disposal of spent nuclear fuel."
"The Palo Verde participants have contracted for 100% of Palo Verde’s requirements for uranium  concentrates through 2028 and 52% through 2029; 100% of Palo Verde’s requirements for conversion  services through 2030 and 32% through 2031; 100% of Palo Verde’s requirements for enrichment services  through 2028; and 100% of Palo Verde’s requirements for fuel fabrication through 2027 for Unit 2 and  Unit 1 and 2028 for Unit 3. Spent Nuclear Fuel and Waste Disposal — The Nuclear Waste Policy Act of"
"1982 (“NWPA”)  required the DOE to begin to accept, transport, and dispose of spent nuclear fuel and high-level waste  generated by the nation’s nuclear power plants by 1998.  The DOE’s obligations are reflected in a contract  for Disposal of Spent Nuclear Fuel and/or High-Level Radioactive Waste (the “Standard Contract”) with  each nuclear power plant.  The DOE failed to begin accepting spent nuclear fuel by 1998.  The DOE had  planned to meet its NWPA and Standard Contract disposal obligations"
"by designing, licensing,  constructing, and operating a permanent geologic repository at Yucca Mountain, Nevada.  In June 2008,  the DOE submitted its Yucca Mountain construction authorization application to the NRC, but in  March 2010, the DOE filed a motion to dismiss with prejudice the Yucca Mountain construction  authorization application.  Several legal proceedings followed challenging DOE’s withdrawal of its Yucca  Mountain construction authorization application and the NRC’s cessation of"
"its review of the Yucca  Table of Contents 7  Mountain construction authorization application, which were consolidated into one matter at the U.S. Court  of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (the “D.C. Circuit”).  Following the D.C. Circuit’s August  2013 order, the NRC issued two volumes of the safety evaluation report developed as part of the Yucca  Mountain construction authorization application.  Publication of these volumes does not signal whether or  when the NRC might authorize"
"construction of the repository.  APS is directly involved in legal  proceedings related to the DOE’s failure to meet its statutory and contractual obligations regarding  acceptance of spent nuclear fuel and high-level waste.   APS Lawsuit for Breach of Standard Contract — In December 2003, APS, acting on behalf of  itself and the Palo Verde participants, filed a lawsuit against the DOE in the United States Court of Federal  Claims (“Court of Federal Claims”) for damages incurred due to the DOE’s"
"breach of the Standard  Contract.  The Court of Federal Claims ruled in favor of APS and the Palo Verde participants in  October 2010 and awarded damages to APS and the Palo Verde participants for costs incurred through  December 2006.   On December 19, 2012, APS, acting on behalf of itself and the participant owners of Palo Verde,  filed a second breach of contract lawsuit against the DOE in the United States Court of Federal Claims.   The lawsuit sought to recover damages incurred due to DOE’s"
"breach of the Standard Contract for failing  to accept Palo Verde’s spent nuclear fuel and high-level waste from January 1, 2007 through June 30,  2011, pursuant to the terms of the Standard Contract and the NWPA.  On August 18, 2014, APS and DOE  entered into a settlement agreement, which required DOE to pay the Palo Verde owners for certain  specified costs incurred by Palo Verde during the period January 1, 2007, through June 30, 2011.  In  addition, the settlement agreement provided APS with"
"a method for submitting claims and getting recovery  for costs incurred through December 31, 2016, which was extended to December 31, 2025.  APS has recovered costs for ten claims pursuant to the terms of the August 15, 2014 settlement  agreement, for ten separate time periods during July 1, 2011 through October 31, 2023.  The DOE has  approved and paid approximately $156.7 million for these claims (APS’s share is approximately  $45.6 million).  The amounts recovered were primarily recorded as"
"adjustments to a regulatory liability and  had no impact on reported net income.  In accordance with the 2017 Rate Case Decision, this regulatory  liability is being refunded to customers.  See Note 3.  On October 31, 2024, APS filed its eleventh claim  pursuant to the terms of the August 15, 2014, settlement agreement in the amount of approximately  $18 million (APS’s share is approximately $5.3 million).  In February 2025, the DOE approved  approximately $17.6 million of this claim. Waste"
"Confidence and Continued Storage — On June 8, 2012, the D.C. Circuit issued its decision  on a challenge by several states and environmental groups of the NRC’s rulemaking regarding temporary  storage and permanent disposal of high-level nuclear waste and spent nuclear fuel.  The petitioners had  challenged the NRC’s 2010 update to the agency’s waste confidence decision and temporary storage  rule (“Waste Confidence Decision”).  The D.C. Circuit found that the NRC’s evaluation of the"
"environmental risks from spent nuclear fuel was deficient, and therefore remanded the Waste Confidence  Decision update for further action consistent with National Environmental Policy Act.  In September 2013,  the NRC issued its draft Generic Environmental Impact Statement (“GEIS”) to support an updated Waste  Confidence Decision.  On August 26, 2014, the NRC approved a final rule on the environmental effects of  continued storage of spent nuclear fuel.  Renamed as the Continued Storage Rule,"
"the NRC’s decision  adopted the findings of the GEIS regarding the environmental impacts of storing spent fuel at any reactor  site after the reactor’s licensed period of operations.  As a result, those generic impacts do not need to be  re-analyzed in the environmental reviews for individual licenses.  The final Continued Storage Rule was  subject to continuing legal challenges before the NRC and the Court of Appeals.  In June 2016, the D.C.  Table of Contents 8  Circuit issued its final"
"decision, rejecting all remaining legal challenges to the Continued Storage Rule.  On  August 8, 2016, the D.C. Circuit denied a petition for rehearing. Palo Verde has sufficient capacity at its on-site independent spent fuel storage installation  (“ISFSI”) to store all of the nuclear fuel that will be irradiated during the initial operating license period,  which ends in December 2027.  Additionally, Palo Verde has sufficient capacity at its on-site ISFSI to store  a portion of the fuel that"
"will be irradiated during the period of extended operation, which ends in  November 2047.  If uncertainties regarding the United States government’s obligation to accept and store  spent fuel are not favorably resolved, APS will evaluate expanding the ISFSI, or alternative storage  solutions that may obviate the need to expand the ISFSI, to accommodate all of the fuel that will be  irradiated during the period of extended operation.   Nuclear Decommissioning Costs — APS currently relies on an"
"external sinking fund mechanism to  meet the NRC financial assurance requirements for decommissioning its interests in Palo Verde Units 1, 2  and 3.  The decommissioning costs of Palo Verde Units 1, 2 and 3 are currently included in APS’s ACC  jurisdictional rates.  Decommissioning costs are recoverable through a non-bypassable system benefits  charge (paid by all retail customers taking service from the APS system).  Based on current nuclear  decommissioning trust asset balances, site specific"
"decommissioning cost studies, anticipated future  contributions to the decommissioning trusts, and return projections on the asset portfolios over the  expected remaining operating life of the facility, we are on track to meet the current site-specific  decommissioning costs for Palo Verde at the time the units are expected to be decommissioned.  See Note  18 for additional information about APS’s nuclear decommissioning trusts.   Palo Verde Liability and Insurance Matters — See “Palo Verde"
"Generating Station — Nuclear  Insurance” in Note 10 for a discussion of the insurance maintained by the Palo Verde participants,  including APS, for Palo Verde.   Natural Gas and Oil Fueled Generating Facilities APS has six natural gas power plants located throughout Arizona, consisting of Redhawk, located  near Palo Verde; Ocotillo, located in Tempe; Sundance, located in Coolidge; West Phoenix, located in  southwest Phoenix; Saguaro, located north of Tucson; and Yucca, located near Yuma."
"Several of the units  at Yucca run on either gas or oil.  APS has two oil-only power plants: Douglas, located in the town of  Douglas, Arizona and Yucca GT-4 in Yuma, Arizona.  APS owns and operates each of these plants with  the exception of one oil-only combustion turbine unit and one oil and gas steam unit at Yucca that are  operated by APS and owned by the Imperial Irrigation District.  APS has a total entitlement from these  plants of 3,573 MW.  A portion of the gas for these plants is"
"financially hedged up to three years in  advance of purchasing and that position is converted to a physical gas purchase one month prior to  delivery.  APS has long-term gas transportation agreements with three different companies, some of which  are effective through 2052.  Fuel oil is acquired under short-term purchases delivered by truck directly to  the power plants. In 2024, APS contracted for the addition of two combustion turbines (approximately 90 MW in  total) at Sundance, which are"
"expected to be in service in 2026, and the addition of eight combustion  turbines (approximately 397 MW total) at Redhawk, which are expected to be in service in 2028.  Table of Contents 9  Coal Fueled Generating Facilities Four Corners — Four Corners is located in the northwestern corner of New Mexico and was  originally a 5-unit coal-fired power plant.  APS owns 100% of Units 1, 2 and 3, which were retired as of  December 30, 2013.  APS operates the plant and owns 63% of Four Corners Units 4"
"and 5.  APS has a total  entitlement from Four Corners of 970 MW.  APS plans to exit coal-fired generation as part of its portfolio  of electricity generating resources, including Four Corners, by 2031.   NTEC, a company formed by the Navajo Nation to own the mine that serves Four Corners and  develop other energy projects, is the coal supplier for Four Corners.  The Four Corners co-owners executed  a long-term agreement for the supply of coal to Four Corners from July 2016 through 2031, which"
"was  amended and restated on July 1, 2024. APS, on behalf of the Four Corners participants, negotiated amendments to an existing facility  lease with the Navajo Nation, which extends the Four Corners leasehold interest from 2016 to 2041.  The  Navajo Nation approved these amendments in March 2011.  The effectiveness of the amendments also  required the approval of the DOI, as did a related federal rights-of-way grant.  A federal environmental  review was undertaken as part of the DOI review"
"process and culminated in the issuance by DOI of a  record of decision on July 17, 2015, justifying the agency action to extend the life of the plant and the  adjacent mine.     In June 2021, APS and the owners of Four Corners entered into an agreement that would allow  Four Corners to operate seasonally at the election of the owners as early as fall 2023.  In July 2024, APS  and the owners amended the agreement to retain the option for seasonal operation.  Under seasonal  operation, one"
"generating unit would be shut down during seasons where electricity demand is reduced,  such as the winter and spring.  The other unit would remain online year-round, subject to market conditions  as well as planned maintenance outages and unplanned outages.  As of the date of this report, APS has  elected not to begin seasonal operation due to market conditions.                Cholla — Cholla was originally a 4-unit coal-fired power plant, which is located in northeastern  Arizona.  APS"
"operates the plant and owns 100% of Cholla Units 1, 2 and 3.  PacifiCorp owns Cholla Unit  4, and APS operated that unit for PacifiCorp.  On September 11, 2014, APS announced that it would close  Cholla Unit 2 and cease burning coal at the other APS-owned units (Units 1 and 3) at the plant by the  mid-2020s, if EPA approved a compromise proposal offered by APS to meet required environmental and  emissions standards and rules.  On April 14, 2015, the ACC approved APS’s plan to retire Unit 2,"
"without  expressing any view on the future recoverability of APS’s remaining investment in the Unit.  APS closed  Unit 2 on October 1, 2015.  Following the closure of Unit 2, APS has a total entitlement from Cholla of  380 MW.  In early 2017, EPA approved a final rule incorporating APS’s compromise proposal, which took  effect for Cholla on April 26, 2017.  In December 2019, PacifiCorp notified APS that it planned to retire  Cholla Unit 4 by the end of 2020 and the unit ceased operation in"
"December 2020.  APS has committed to  end the use of coal at its remaining Cholla units during 2025. APS purchased all of Cholla coal requirements from a coal supplier that mines the coal under long- term leases of coal reserves with the federal and state governments and private landholders.  APS elected  not to extend the coal and transportation agreements that expired on December 31, 2024, as Cholla  operations are expected to conclude in 2025. Navajo Plant — The Navajo Plant was a 3-unit"
"coal-fired power plant located in northern Arizona.   Salt River Project operated the plant and APS owned a 14% interest in Units 1, 2 and 3.  APS had a total  Table of Contents 10  entitlement from the Navajo Plant of 315 MW.  The Navajo Plant site is leased from the Navajo Nation and  is also subject to an easement from the federal government.   The co-owners of the Navajo Plant and the Navajo Nation agreed that the Navajo Plant would  remain in operation until December 2019 under the existing"
"plant lease.  The co-owners and the Navajo  Nation executed a lease extension on November 29, 2017, which allowed for decommissioning activities to  begin after the plant ceased operations in November 2019.  APS is currently recovering depreciation and a return on the net book value of its interest in the  Navajo Plant over its previously estimated life through 2026.  APS will seek continued recovery in rates  for the book value of its remaining investment in the plant.  See Note 3 for details"
"related to the resulting  regulatory asset plus a return on the net book value as well as other costs related to retirement and closure,  which are still being assessed and which may be material. See Note 10 for information regarding APS’s coal mine reclamation obligations related to these  coal-fired plants. Solar Facilities APS developed utility scale solar resources through the 180 MW ACC-approved AZ Sun Program,  investing approximately $675 million in this program.  These facilities are"
"owned by APS and are located  in multiple locations throughout Arizona.  In addition to the AZ Sun Program, APS developed the 44 MW  Red Rock Solar Plant and the 150 MW Agave Solar Plant, each of which it owns and operates, and has  contracted for the construction of the 168 MW Ironwood Solar Plant. APS owns and operates more than thirty small solar systems around the state.  Together they have  the capacity to produce approximately 4 MW of renewable energy.  This fleet of solar systems includes"
"a   3 MW facility located at the Prescott Airport and 1 MW of small solar systems in various locations across  Arizona.  APS has also developed solar photovoltaic DG systems installed as part of the Community Power  Project in Flagstaff, Arizona.  The Community Power Project, approved by the ACC on April 1, 2010, was  a pilot program through which APS owns, operates, and receives energy from approximately 1 MW of  solar photovoltaic DG systems located within a certain test area in Flagstaff,"
"Arizona.  The pilot program is  now complete and as part of the 2017 Rate Case Decision, the participants have been transferred to the  Solar Partner Program described below.  Additionally, APS owns 13 MW of solar photovoltaic systems  installed across Arizona through the ACC-approved Schools and Government Program.   In December 2014, the ACC voted that it had no objection to APS implementing an APS-owned  rooftop solar research and development program aimed at learning how to efficiently"
"enable the integration  of rooftop solar and battery storage with the grid.  The first stage of the program, called the “Solar Partner  Program,” placed 8 MW of residential rooftop solar on strategically selected distribution feeders in an  effort to maximize potential system benefits, as well as made systems available to limited-income  customers who could not easily install solar through transactions with third parties.  The second stage of  the program, which included an additional 2 MW of"
"rooftop solar and energy storage, placed two energy  storage systems sized at 2 MW on two different high solar penetration feeders to test various grid-related  operation improvements and system interoperability, and was in operation by the end of 2016.  The costs  for this program have been included in APS’s rate base as part of the 2017 Rate Case Decision.   In the 2017 Rate Case Decision, the ACC also approved the “APS Solar Communities” program.   APS Solar Communities (formerly AZ Sun II)"
"is a three-year program authorizing APS to spend $10  Table of Contents 11  million to $15 million in capital costs each year to install utility-owned DG systems on low to moderate  income residential homes, non-profit entities, Title I schools, and rural government facilities.  The 2017  Rate Case Decision provided that all operations and maintenance expenses, property taxes, marketing and  advertising expenses, and the capital carrying costs for this program will be recovered through the RES."
"Currently, APS has installed 14 MW of DG systems under the APS Solar Communities program.  In the  2019 Rate Case decision, the ACC authorized APS to spend $20 million to $30 million in capital costs for  the APS Solar Communities program each year for a period of three years from the effective date of the  decision.  Subsequently, on March 5, 2024, the ACC ordered APS not to expand or extend the APS Solar  Communities program.  Consistent with that decision, the Solar Communities program has"
"been  discontinued and APS stopped enrolling new customers.  APS will continue work on projects that were  enrolled prior to that decision. Renewable Energy Portfolio To date, APS has a diverse portfolio of existing and planned renewable resources totaling 7,660  MW, including biogas, biomass, geothermal, solar, and wind.  Of this portfolio, 3,608 MW are currently in  operation and 4,052 MW are under contract for development or are under construction.  Renewable  resources in operation include"
"416 MW of facilities owned by APS, 1,465 MW of long-term purchased  power agreements, and an estimated 1,727 MW of customer-sited, third-party owned distributed energy  resources. On June 30, 2023, APS issued an ASRFP (the “2023 ASRFP”) pursuant to which APS procured  nearly 7,300 MW of new resources to be in service from 2026 to 2028.  On November 20, 2024, APS issued an ASRFP (the “2024 ASRFP”) seeking 2,000 MW of  resources.  APS is seeking projects that can reach commercial operation"
"beginning June 1, 2028 through  June 1, 2030 but will consider projects that may achieve commercial operation as early as 2026.   Additionally, APS is interested in projects that require longer planning, permitting, and construction and  can be commercially operational after June 1, 2030.  Bids for the 2024 ASRFP were due on February 5,  2025.   APS’s strategy to achieve its RES requirements includes executing purchased power contracts for  new facilities, ongoing development of distributed"
"energy resources and procurement of new facilities to be  owned by APS.  See “Energy Sources and Resource Planning — Generation Facilities — Solar Facilities”  above for information regarding APS-owned solar facilities and “Energy Sources and Resource Planning  — Generation Facilities — Energy Storage” below for more information regarding APS-owned energy  storage facilities. The following table summarizes APS’s renewable energy sources currently in operation and under  development as of the"
"date of this report.  Agreements for the development and completion of future  resources are subject to various conditions, including successful siting, permitting and interconnection of  the projects to the electric grid.   Location Actual/  Target Commercial Operation Date Term (Years) Net  Capacity  In Operation (MW AC) Net Capacity  Planned/ Under Development (MW AC) APS Owned           Solar:           AZ Sun Program:           Paloma Gila Bend, AZ 2011     17    Table of Contents 12"
"Cotton Center Gila Bend, AZ 2011     17    Hyder Phase 1 Hyder, AZ 2011     11    Hyder Phase 2 Hyder, AZ 2012     6    Chino Valley Chino Valley, AZ 2012     20    Hyder II Hyder, AZ 2013     14    Foothills Yuma, AZ 2013     38    Gila Bend Gila Bend, AZ 2014     36  Luke AFB Glendale, AZ 2015   11  Desert Star Buckeye, AZ 2015   10  Subtotal AZ Sun Program         180   —  Multiple Facilities AZ Various     4    Red Rock Red Rock, AZ 2016   44  Agave Solar Arlington, AZ 2023   150  Ironwood"
"Solar Dateland, AZ 2026 168 Distributed Energy:           APS Owned (a) AZ Various     38  Total APS Owned         416   168  PPAs           Solar:           Solana Gila Bend, AZ 2013   30   250    RE Ajo Ajo, AZ 2011   25   5    Sun E AZ 1 Prescott, AZ 2011   30   10    Saddle Mountain Tonopah, AZ 2012   30   15    Badger Tonopah, AZ 2013   30   15    Gillespie Maricopa County,  AZ 2013   30   15    Mesquite Solar 5 Tonopah, AZ 2023   20   60  Sunstreams 3 Arlington, AZ 2024   20   215  Yuma"
"Solar Energy Yuma County, AZ 2025   20    70  Harquahala Sun 2 Tonopah, AZ 2025   20    300  Sunstreams 4 Arlington, AZ 2025   20    300  Serrano Solar Pima and Pinal  County, AZ 2025   20    170  CO Bar Solar C Coconino County, AZ 2027   20    206  Hashknife 1 Navajo County, AZ 2026   20    275  Catclaw Buckeye, AZ 2026   20    225  Papago Solar Maricopa County,  AZ 2026   20    150  Hashknife 2 Navajo County, AZ 2027   20    200  Kitt Eloy, AZ 2026   20    100  Pioneer Yuma, AZ 2027   20"
"300  Maricopa Energy Center Phase 1 Maricopa County,  AZ 2026   20    183  Maricopa Energy Center Phase 2 Maricopa County,  AZ 2027   20    367  Snowflake Solar Snowflake, AZ 2027   20    475  Wind:           Aragonne Mesa Santa Rosa, NM 2022   20   200  High Lonesome Mountainair, NM 2009   30   100    Perrin Ranch Wind Williams, AZ 2012   25   99    Chevelon Butte Winslow, AZ 2023   20   238  Chevelon Butte II Winslow, AZ 2024   20   216  West Camp Wind Farm Navajo County, AZ 2026   20    500"
"Table of Contents 13  Geothermal:           Salton Sea Imperial County, CA 2006   23   10    Biomass:           Snowflake Snowflake, AZ 2008   25   14    Biogas:           NW Regional Landfill Surprise, AZ 2012   20   3    Total PPAs         1,465   3,821  Distributed Energy           Solar (b)           Third-party Owned AZ Various     1,694   63  Agreement 1 Bagdad, AZ 2011   25   15    Agreement 2 AZ 2011-2012 20-21   18    Total Distributed Energy         1,727   63  Total Renewable"
"Portfolio         3,608   4,052  (a) Includes Flagstaff Community Power Project, APS School and Government Program, APS Solar Partner  Program, and APS Solar Communities Program. (b) Includes rooftop solar facilities owned by third parties.  DG is produced in direct current and is converted to  alternating current for reporting purposes. Energy Storage APS deploys a number of advanced technologies on its system, including energy storage.  Energy  storage provides capacity, improves power"
"quality, can be utilized for system regulation and, in certain  circumstances, be used to defer certain traditional infrastructure investments.  Energy storage also aids in  integrating renewable generation by storing excess energy when system demand is low and renewable  production is high and then releasing the stored energy during peak demand hours later in the day and after  sunset.  APS is utilizing grid-scale energy storage projects to meet customer reliability requirements,  increase"
"renewable utilization, and further our understanding of how storage works with other advanced  technologies and the grid.   See “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition — Clean Energy  Commitment — Energy Storage” for a table summarizing the resources in APS’s energy storage portfolio  that are in operation and under development as of the date of this report.  Agreements for the development  and completion of future resources are subject to various conditions."
"Purchased Power Contracts In addition to its own available generating capacity, APS purchases electricity under various  arrangements, including long-term contracts and purchases through short-term markets to supplement its  owned or leased generation and hedge its energy requirements.  A portion of APS’s purchased power  expense is netted against wholesale sales on the Consolidated Statements of Income.  See Note 15.  APS  continually assesses its need for additional capacity resources to"
"assure system reliability.  In addition, APS  has also entered into several PPAs for energy storage.  See “Business of Arizona Public Service Company  — Energy Sources and Resource Planning — Energy Storage” above for details on our energy storage  PPAs. Table of Contents 14  Purchased Power Capacity — APS’s purchased power capacity under long-term contracts as of the  date of this report is summarized in the table below.  All capacity values are based on net capacity unless  otherwise noted."
"Type   Dates Available   Capacity  (MW) Purchase Agreement (a) Year-round through June 14, 2025   46  Demand Response Agreement   Summer seasons through 2025     75  Tolling Agreement May 1 through April 30, 2021-2025   463          Extension Term  May 1 through October 31, 2025-2032   525  Tolling Agreement June 1 through September 30, 2020-2026   565          Extension Term  May 1 through October 31, 2026-2031   565  Tolling Agreement June 1 through September 30, 2020-2026   570"
"Extension Term  May 1 through October 31, 2027-2034   600  Renewable Energy (b)   Various     1,465  (a) Up to 46 MW of capacity is available; however, the amount of electricity available to APS under this  agreement is based in large part on customer demand and is adjusted annually. (b) Does not include MW of capacity planned or under development.  See “Energy Sources and Resource  Planning — Generation Facilities — Renewable Energy Portfolio” for more details on renewable energy  power"
"purchase agreements. Current and Future Resources   Current Demand and Reserve Margin  Electric power demand is generally seasonal.  In Arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot  summer months.  APS’s 2024 peak one-hour demand on its electric system was recorded on August 4,  2024, at 8,210 MW, compared to the 2023 peak of 8,162 MW recorded on July 15, 2023.  APS’s reserve  margin at the time of the 2024 peak demand, calculated using system load serving capacity, was 15%.  For  2025, APS is"
"procuring market resources to maintain its minimum 16% planning reserve criteria. Future Resources and Resource Plan ACC rules require utilities to develop 15-year Integrated Resource Plans (“IRP”) which describe  how the utility plans to serve customer load in the plan timeframe.  The ACC reviews each utility’s IRP to  determine if it meets the necessary rule requirements and whether it should be acknowledged.  On May 1,  2023, APS, Tucson Electric Power Company, and UNS Electric, Inc. filed a"
"joint request for an extension  to file the IRPs from August 1 to November 1.  On June 21, 2023, the ACC granted the extension.  As a  result, APS filed its 2023 IRP on November 1, 2023.  On January 31, 2024, stakeholders filed comments  regarding the IRP, and APS filed its response to stakeholder comments on May 31, 2024.  On July 31,  2024, the ACC held an IRP workshop where utilities and stakeholders presented on the 2023 IRPs.  On  October 8, 2024, the ACC acknowledged APS’s 2023 IRP and"
"approved certain amendments to the IRP  process, including requirements for APS to demonstrate resource adequacy prior to exiting Four Corners as  well as analysis of impacts from western market participation and planned resource requirements in the  next IRP. See “Business of Arizona Public Service Company — Energy Sources and Resource Planning —  Clean Energy Focus Initiatives” and “Business of Arizona Public Service Company — Energy Sources and  Resource Planning — Energy Storage” above for"
"information regarding future plans for energy storage.   Table of Contents 15  See “Business of Arizona Public Service Company — Energy Sources and Resource Planning —  Generation Facilities — Coal-Fueled Generating Facilities” above for information regarding plans for  Cholla, Four Corners and the Navajo Plant.  Western Energy Imbalance Market and Wholesale Market In 2016, APS began to participate in the Western Energy Imbalance Market (“WEIM”), a  voluntary, real-time optimization market"
"operated by the CAISO.  The WEIM allows for rebalancing  supply and demand in 15-minute blocks and dispatching generation every five minutes, instead of the  traditional one-hour blocks.  APS continues to expect that its participation in WEIM will lower its fuel and  purchased-power costs, improve situational awareness for system operations in the Western  Interconnection power grid, and improve integration of APS’s renewable resources.  APS participated in  market design and tariff development"
"of Markets+, a day-ahead and real-time market offering from  Southwest Power Pool (“SPP”).  The Markets+ tariff was filed with FERC on March 29, 2024 and was  approved on January 16, 2025.  APS announced a market decision to pursue participation in SPP  Markets+.  In addition, APS is participating in the Western Resource Adequacy Program administered by  Western Power Pool and is transitioning to full binding participation as early as summer 2027.  These  regional efforts are driven by the"
"objectives of reducing customer cost and improving reliability. Energy Modernization Plan  In June 2021, the ACC adopted clean energy rules based on a series of ACC amendments to the  final energy rules.  The adopted rules require 100% clean energy by 2070 and the following interim  standards for carbon reduction from a baseline carbon emissions level: 50% reduction by December 31,  2032; 65% reduction by December 31, 2040; 80% reduction by December 31, 2050, and 95% reduction by  December 31,"
"2060.  Since the adopted clean energy rules differed substantially from the original  Recommended Opinion and Order (“ROO”), supplemental rulemaking procedures were required before the  rules could become effective.  On January 26, 2022, the ACC reversed its prior decision and declined to  send the final draft energy rules through the rulemaking process.  Instead, the ACC opened a new docket to  consider all-source request for proposals (“ASRFP”) requirements and the IRP process.  During the"
"August  2022 ACC Open Meeting, the ACC voted to postpone a decision on the ASRFP and IRP rulemaking  package until 2023.  On May 26, 2023, the ACC opened a new docket to review articles within the Arizona  Administrative Code related to Resource Planning, the Renewable Energy Standard and Tariff, and Electric  Energy Efficiency Standards.  On January 9, 2024, the ACC approved a rulemaking process to begin on  this matter.  During the ACC Open Meeting on February 6, 2024, the ACC approved motions"
"to direct  ACC Staff to include recommendations to repeal the current Electric Energy Efficiency and Renewable  Energy Standard rules during the rulemaking process.  On August 21, 2024, ACC Staff proposed  amendments striking the rules and filed preliminary economic, small business, and consumer impact  statements, consistent with the formal rulemaking process.  APS cannot predict the outcome of this matter.   See Note 3 for additional information related to these energy rules.  Table of"
"Contents 16  Renewable Energy Standard   In 2006, the ACC approved the RES.  Under the RES, electric utilities that are regulated by the  ACC must supply an increasing percentage of their retail electric energy sales from eligible renewable  resources, including, for example, solar, wind, biomass, biogas and geothermal technologies.  In order to  achieve these requirements, the ACC allows APS to include a RES surcharge as part of customer bills to  recover the approved amounts for use on"
"renewable energy projects.  Each year, APS is required to file a  five-year implementation plan with the ACC and seek approval for funding the upcoming year’s RES  budget. In June 2021, the ACC adopted a clean energy rules package which would require APS to meet  certain clean energy standards and technology procurement mandates, obtain approval for its action plan  included in its IRP, and seek cost recovery in a rate process.  Since the adopted clean energy rules differed  substantially from"
"the original ROO, supplemental rulemaking procedures were required before the rules  could become effective.  On January 26, 2022, the ACC reversed its prior decision and declined to send the  final draft energy rules through the rulemaking process.  Instead, the ACC opened a new docket to consider  ASRFP requirements and the IRP process.  See “Energy Modernization Plan” above for more information. On July 1, 2021, APS filed its 2022 RES Implementation Plan and proposed a budget of"
"approximately $93.1 million.  APS filed an amended 2022 RES Implementation Plan on December 9,  2021, with a proposed budget of $100.5 million.  This budget included funding for programs to comply  with the decision in the 2019 Rate Case, including the ACC authorizing spending $20 million to  $30 million in capital costs for the continuation of the APS Solar Communities program each year for a  period of three years from the effective date of the 2019 Rate Case decision.  APS’s budget proposal"
"supported existing approved projects and commitments and requested a waiver of the RES residential and  non-residential distributed energy requirements for 2022.  On May 18, 2022, the ACC approved the 2022  RES Implementation Plan, including an amendment requiring a stakeholder working group convene to  develop a community solar program for the ACC’s consideration at a future date.   On July 1, 2022, APS filed its 2023 RES Implementation Plan and proposed a budget of  approximately $86.2"
"million, excluding any funding offsets.  This budget contained funding for programs  to comply with ACC-approved initiatives, including the 2019 Rate Case decision.  APS’s budget proposal  supported existing approved projects and commitments and requested a waiver of the RES residential and  non-residential distributed energy requirements for 2022.  On November 10, 2022, the ACC approved the  2023 RES Implementation Plan, including APS’s requested waiver of the distributed energy requirement"
"for 2023. On June 30, 2023, APS filed its 2024 RES Implementation Plan and proposed a budget of  approximately $95.1 million.  APS’s budget proposal supports existing approved projects and  commitments and requests a waiver of the RES renewable energy credit requirements to demonstrate  compliance with the Annual Renewable Energy Requirement for 2023.  The ACC has not yet ruled on the  2024 RES Implementation Plan.  APS cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding. On July 1, 2024, APS filed"
"its 2025 RES Implementation Plan and proposed a budget of  approximately $92.7 million.  APS’s budget proposal supports existing approved projects and  commitments and requests a waiver of the RES renewable energy credit requirements to demonstrate  compliance with the Annual Renewable Energy Requirement for 2024.  The ACC has not yet ruled on the  2025 RES Implementation Plan.  APS cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding. Table of Contents 17  On June 14, 2021, APS filed an application"
"for approval of its Green Power Partners Program  (“GPP”).  On September 1, 2021, the ACC approved the application.  On June 28, 2024, APS filed an  application for approval of modifications to the GPP and requested a renewable generation renewable  energy credits waiver.  The ACC has not yet ruled on the GPP application.  APS cannot predict the  outcome of this proceeding.   Demand Side Management On January 1, 2011, Arizona regulators adopted an EES of 22% cumulative annual energy savings  by"
"2020 to increase energy efficiency and other DSM programs encouraging customers to conserve energy,  while incentivizing utilities to aid in these efforts that ultimately reduce the demand for energy.  APS  achieved the 22% EES in 2021.  See Note 3 for information regarding energy efficiency, other DSM  obligations and the Energy Modernization Plan. Competitive Environment and Regulatory Oversight   Retail    The ACC regulates APS’s retail electric rates and its issuance of securities.  The ACC"
"must also  approve any significant transfer or encumbrance of APS’s property used to provide retail electric service  and approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between Pinnacle West, APS, and their  respective affiliates.  See Note 3 for information regarding ACC’s regulation of APS’s retail electric rates.   APS is subject to varying degrees of competition from other investor-owned electric and gas  utilities in Arizona (such as Southwest Gas Corporation), as well as"
"cooperatives, municipalities, electrical  districts, and similar types of governmental or non-profit organizations.  In addition, some customers,  particularly industrial and large commercial customers, may own and operate generation facilities to meet  some or all of their own energy requirements.  This practice is becoming more popular with customers  installing or having installed products such as rooftop solar panels to meet or supplement their energy  needs.   On November 17, 2018, the ACC"
"voted to re-examine the facilitation of a deregulated retail  electric market in Arizona.  On July 1 and July 2, 2019, ACC Staff issued a report and initial proposed  draft rules regarding possible modifications to the ACC’s retail electric competition rules.  On February 10,  2020, two ACC Commissioners filed two sets of draft proposed retail electric competition rules.  On  February 12, 2020, ACC Staff issued its second report regarding possible modifications to the ACC’s retail  electric"
"competition rules.  During a July 15, 2020, ACC Staff meeting, the ACC Commissioners discussed  the possible development of a retail competition pilot program, but no action was taken.  In April 2022, the  Arizona Legislature passed, and the Governor signed a bill that repealed the electric deregulation law that  had been in place in Arizona since 1998.  On August 27, 2024, the ACC administratively closed this  docket due to inactivity and obsolescence. Table of Contents 18  Wholesale   FERC"
"regulates rates for wholesale power sales and transmission services.  See Note 3 for  information regarding APS’s transmission rates.  During 2024, approximately 4.2% of APS’s electric  operating revenues resulted from such sales and services.  APS’s wholesale activity primarily consists of  managing fuel and purchased power supplies to serve retail customer energy requirements.  APS also sells,  in the wholesale market, its generation output that is not needed for APS’s Native Load and, in"
"doing so,  competes with other utilities, power marketers and independent power producers.  Additionally, subject to  specified parameters, APS hedges both electricity and natural gas.  The majority of these activities are  undertaken to mitigate risk in APS’s portfolio. Transmission and Delivery APS continues to work closely with customers, stakeholders, and regulators to identify and plan for  transmission needs that support new customers, system reliability, access to markets and clean energy"
"development.  The capital expenditures table presented in the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this  report includes new APS transmission projects, along with other transmission costs for upgrades and  replacements, including those for data center and semi-conductor manufacturing development.  To  prioritize reliability and meet substantial growth in residential and commercial energy"
"needs, APS has  developed a future-focused, strategic transmission plan (the “Ten-Year Transmission Plan”).  The Ten- Year Transmission Plan includes five critical transmission projects that comprise the APS strategic  transmission portfolio, which represents a significant upgrade to APS’s transmission system.  These five  projects, along with other projects included in the Ten-Year Transmission Plan, are intended to support  growing energy needs, strengthen reliability, and allow for the"
"connection of new resources.   APS is also working to establish and expand advanced grid technologies throughout its service  territory to provide long-term benefits both to APS and its customers.  APS is strategically deploying a  variety of technologies that are intended to allow customers to better manage their energy usage, minimize  system outage durations and frequency, enable customer choice for new customer sited technologies, and  facilitate greater cost savings to APS through improved"
"reliability and the automation of certain delivery  functions. Environmental Matters Climate Change  Legislative Initiatives.  There have been no recent successful attempts by Congress to pass  legislation that would regulate GHG emissions, and it is unclear at this time whether legislation regulating  or limiting utility-sector GHG emissions introduced during prior sessions of Congress will become law.  In  the event climate change legislation ultimately passes, the actual economic and"
"operational impact of such  legislation on APS depends on a variety of factors, none of which can be fully known until a law is written,  enacted, and the specifics of the resulting program are established.  These factors include, without  limitation, the terms of the legislation with regard to allowed GHG emissions; the cost to reduce emissions;  in the event a cap-and-trade program is established, whether any permitted emissions allowances will be  allocated to source operators free of cost or"
"auctioned (and, if so, the cost of those allowances in the  marketplace) and whether offsets and other measures to moderate the costs of compliance will be available;  Table of Contents 19  and, in the event of a carbon tax, the amount of the tax per pound of carbon dioxide (“CO2”) equivalent  emitted. In addition to federal legislative initiatives, state-specific initiatives may also impact our business.   While Arizona has no pending legislation regulating GHGs, the California legislature"
"enacted AB 32 and  Senate Bill (“SB”) 1368 in 2006 to address GHG emissions.  In October 2011, the California Air  Resources Board (“CARB”) approved final regulations that established a state-wide cap on GHG emissions  beginning on January 1, 2013, and established a GHG allowance trading program under that cap.  The first  phase of the program, which applies to, among other entities, importers of electricity, commenced on  January 1, 2013.  Under the program, entities selling electricity into"
"California, including APS, must hold  carbon allowances to cover GHG emissions associated with electricity sales into California from outside  the state.  APS is authorized to recover the cost of these carbon allowances through the PSA. The California legislature also enacted SB 219, SB 253, and SB 261, which mandate climate- related disclosures for certain companies doing business in California.  CARB is expected to issue  regulations for these bills in 2025.  Pinnacle West and APS are"
"currently reviewing whether they would be  required to make disclosures pursuant to these bills. Regulatory Initiatives.  In 2009, EPA determined that GHG emissions endanger public health and  welfare.  As a result of this “endangerment finding,” EPA determined that the Clean Air Act required new  regulatory requirements for new and modified major GHG emitting sources, including power plants.  APS  will generally be required to consider the impact of GHG emissions as part of its traditional New"
"Source  Review analysis for new major sources and major modifications to existing plants.   EPA’s regulation of carbon dioxide emissions from electric utility power plants has proceeded in  fits and starts over most of the last decade.  Starting on August 3, 2015, EPA finalized the Clean Power  Plan, which was the Agency’s first effort at such regulation through system-wide generation dispatch  shifting.  Those regulations were subsequently repealed by the EPA on June 19, 2019, and replaced by"
"the  Affordable Clean Energy (“ACE”) regulations, which were a far narrower set of rules.  While the U.S.  Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit subsequently vacated the ACE regulations on January 19, 2021, and  ordered a remand for EPA to develop replacement regulations consistent with the original 2015 Clean  Power Plan, the U.S. Supreme Court subsequently reversed that decision on June 30, 2022, holding that the  Clean Power Plan exceeded EPA’s authority under the Clean Air Act. In the final"
"regulations governing power plant carbon dioxide emissions released April 25, 2024,  EPA issued emission standards and guidelines for various subcategories of new and existing power plants.   Unlike EPA’s Clean Power Plan regulations from 2015, which took a broad, system-wide approach to  regulating carbon emissions from electric utility fossil-fuel burning power plants, these new federal  regulations are limited to measures that can be installed at individual power plants to limit planet-"
"warming  carbon-dioxide emissions.   As such, for new natural gas-fired combustion turbine power plants, EPA is proposing that carbon  emission performance standards apply based on the annual capacity factors.  For the highest utilization  combustion turbines, EPA is therefore proposing that such facilities be retrofitted for carbon capture and  sequestration or utilization controls (“CCS”) by 2032.  For intermediate or low-load natural gas fired  combustion turbines, those with 40% or less"
"capacity factors, EPA’s regulations would not require add-on  pollution controls.  Instead, natural gas-fired combustion turbines with capacity factors of up to 20% would  be effectively unregulated, while such turbines with capacity factors over 20% and up to 40% would be  subject to carbon dioxide emission rate limitations.  EPA did not finalize standards for existing natural gas- Table of Contents 20  fired combustion turbines but has indicated that it will propose a new set of standards,"
"initiating a separate  rulemaking, for these existing gas-fired power plants within the next year. For coal-fired power plants, instead of imposing regulations based on capacity and utilization, EPA  has finalized subcategories based on planned retirement dates.  This means that facilities retiring before  2032 are effectively exempt from regulation, those that retire between 2032 and 2038 must co-fire with  natural gas starting in 2030, and those that retire in 2039 or later must install CCS"
"controls by 2032.   As of May 10, 2024, several states, electric utility companies, affiliated trade associations, and  other entities filed petitions for review of these regulations in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals.  APS is  participating in that litigation as part of an ad hoc coalition of electric utility companies, independent power  producers, and trade groups, called Electric Generators for a Sensible Transition.  We cannot predict the  outcome of the litigation challenging EPA’s"
"latest carbon emission standards for power plants.  In addition,  the Trump administration has stated that it intends to reverse or substantially revise these standards.  We  cannot predict the outcome of future rulemaking or other regulatory proceedings aimed at changing or  eliminating the current EPA emission standards for power plants. If this regulation remains in effect, it will likely lead to a material increase in APS’s costs to build,  operate, and maintain new, frequently operated gas-"
"fired power plants.  The regulatory deadlines in 2032  by which new, frequently operated gas-fired power plants must install carbon capture and sequestration and  achieve 90% capture efficiency may not be feasible.  Future resource plans and procurement efforts  implicating the development of such new generation remains pending and, as such, at this time APS is not  able to quantify the financial impact associated with EPA’s GHG regulations for power plants. Other environmental rules that could"
"involve material compliance costs include those related to  effluent limitations, the ozone national ambient air quality standards (“NAAQS”) and other rules or matters  involving the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Endangered Species Act, RCRA, Superfund, the Navajo  Nation, and water supplies for our power plants.  The financial impact of complying with current and  future environmental rules could jeopardize the economic viability of APS’s fossil-fuel powered plants or  the willingness or"
"ability of power plant participants to fund any required equipment upgrades or continue  their participation in these plants.  The economics of continuing to own certain resources, particularly our  coal plants, may deteriorate, warranting early retirement of those plants, which may result in asset  impairments.  APS would seek recovery in rates for the book value of any remaining investments in the  plants as well as other costs related to early retirement but cannot predict whether it would"
"obtain such  recovery.        EPA Environmental Regulation Coal Combustion Waste.  On December 19, 2014, EPA issued its final regulations governing the  handling and disposal of CCR, such as fly ash and bottom ash.  The rule regulates CCR as a non-hazardous  waste under Subtitle D of the RCRA and establishes national minimum criteria for existing and new CCR  landfills and surface impoundments and all lateral expansions.  These criteria include standards governing  location restrictions, design"
"and operating criteria, groundwater monitoring and corrective action, closure  requirements and post closure care, and recordkeeping, notification, and internet posting requirements.   The rule generally requires any existing unlined CCR surface impoundment to stop receiving CCR and  either retrofit or close, and further requires the closure of any CCR landfill or surface impoundment that  cannot meet the applicable performance criteria for location restrictions or structural integrity.  Such"
"closure requirements are deemed “forced closure” or “closure for cause” of unlined surface impoundments  and are the subject of recent regulatory and judicial activities described below. Table of Contents 21  Since these regulations were finalized, EPA has taken steps to substantially modify the federal  rules governing CCR disposal.  While certain changes have been prompted by utility industry petitions,  others have resulted from judicial review, court-approved settlements with environmental"
"groups, and  statutory changes to RCRA.  The following lists the pending regulatory changes that, if finalized, could  have a material impact as to how APS manages CCR at its coal-fired power plants: • Following the passage of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (“WIIN”) Act  in 2016, EPA possesses authority to either authorize states to develop their own permit  programs for CCR management or issue federal permits governing CCR disposal both in states  without their own permit"
"programs and on tribal lands.  At this time, the Arizona Department of  Environmental Quality (“ADEQ”) has taken steps to develop a CCR permitting program. It  remains unclear when the EPA would approve the permitting program pursuant to the WIIN  Act.  On December 19, 2019, EPA proposed its own set of regulations governing the issuance  of CCR management permits, which would impact facilities like Four Corners located on the  Navajo Nation.  The proposal remains pending.    • On March 1, 2018,"
"as a result of a settlement with certain environmental groups, EPA proposed  adding boron to the list of constituents that trigger corrective action requirements to remediate  groundwater impacted by CCR disposal activities.  Apart from a subsequent proposal issued on  August 14, 2019, to add a specific, health-based groundwater protection standard for boron,  EPA has yet to take action on this proposal.    • With respect to APS’s Cholla facility, APS’s application for alternative closure was"
"submitted  to EPA on November 30, 2020.  While EPA has deemed APS’s application administratively  “complete,” the Agency’s approval remains pending.  If granted, this application would allow  the continued disposal of CCR within Cholla’s existing unlined CCR surface impoundments  until the required date for ceasing coal-fired boiler operations in April 2025.  This application  will be subject to public comment and, potentially, judicial review.  We expect to have a  proposed decision from EPA"
"regarding Cholla in 2025.   We cannot at this time predict the outcome of these regulatory proceedings or when the EPA will  take final action on those matters that are still pending.  Depending on the eventual outcome, the costs  associated with APS’s management of CCR could materially increase, which could affect our financial  condition, results of operations, or cash flows. On April 25, 2024, EPA took final action on a proposal to expand the scope of federal CCR  regulations to address the"
"impacts from historical CCR disposal activities that would have ceased prior to  2015.  This new class of CCR management units (“CCRMUs”), which contain at least 1,000 tons of CCR,  broadly encompass any location at an operating coal-fired power plant where CCR would have been placed  on land.  As proposed, this would include not only historically closed landfills and surface impoundments  but also prior applications of CCR beneficial use (with exceptions for historical roadbed and embankment"
"applications).  Existing CCR regulatory requirements for groundwater monitoring, corrective action,  closure, post-closure care, and other requirements will be imposed on such CCRMUs.  At this time, APS is  still evaluating the impacts of this final regulation on its business, with initial CCRMU site surveys due to  be completed by February 2026 and final site investigation reports to be finalized by February 2027.   Based on the information available to APS at this time, APS cannot reasonably"
"estimate the fair value of  the entire CCRMU asset retirement obligation.  Depending on the outcome of those evaluations and site  Table of Contents 22  investigations, the costs associated with APS’s management of CCR could materially increase, which  could affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. APS currently disposes of CCR in ash ponds and dry storage areas at Cholla and Four Corners.   The Navajo Plant disposed of CCR only in a dry landfill storage area."
"Additionally, the CCR rule requires  ongoing, phased groundwater monitoring.  As of October 2018, APS has completed the statistical analyses  for its CCR disposal units that triggered assessment monitoring.  APS determined that several of its CCR  disposal units at Cholla and Four Corners will need to undergo corrective action.  In addition, under the  current regulations, all such disposal units must have ceased operating and initiated closure as of April 11,  2021 (except for those disposal"
"units subject to alternative closure).  APS completed the assessments of  corrective measures on June 14, 2019; however, additional investigations and engineering analyses that  will support the remedy selection are still underway.  In addition, APS has also solicited input from the  public and hosted public hearings as part of this process.  APS’s estimates for its share of corrective action  and monitoring costs at Four Corners and Cholla are captured within the Asset Retirement Obligations."
"As  APS continues to implement the CCR rule’s corrective action assessment process, the current cost  estimates may change.  Given uncertainties that may exist until we have fully completed the corrective  action assessment and final remedy selection process, we cannot predict any ultimate impacts to APS;  however, at this time APS does not believe that any potential changes to the cost estimate from the CCR  rule’s corrective action assessment process for Four Corners or Cholla would have a"
"material impact on its  financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Effluent Limitation Guidelines.   EPA published effluent limitation guidelines (“ELG”) on  October 13, 2020, and based off those guidelines, APS completed a National Pollutant Discharge  Elimination System (“NPDES”) permit modification for Four Corners on December 1, 2023.  The ELG  standards finalized in October 2020 relaxed the “zero discharge” standard for bottom ash transport waters  EPA finalized in September"
"2015.  However, on April 25, 2024, EPA finalized new ELG regulations that  once again require “zero discharge” standards for flows of bottom ash transport water at power plants like  Four Corners.  Nonetheless, for power plants that permanently cease operations by December 31, 2034,  such facilities can continue to comply with the 2020 ELG standards.  APS is currently evaluating its  compliance options for Four Corners based on the ELG regulations finalized in April 2024 and is assessing  what"
"impacts the new standards will have on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards.  On October 1, 2015, EPA finalized revisions to  the primary ground-level ozone NAAQS at a level of 70 parts per billion (“ppb”).  Further, on       December 23, 2020, EPA issued a final regulation retaining the current primary NAAQS for ozone,  following a required scientific review process.  With ozone standards becoming more stringent, our fossil"
"generation units will come under increasing pressure to reduce emissions of NOx and volatile organic  compounds, and to generate emission offsets for new projects or facility expansions located in ozone  nonattainment areas.  EPA was expected to designate attainment and nonattainment areas relative to the  new 70 ppb standard by October 1, 2017.   While EPA took action designating attainment and  unclassifiable areas on November 6, 2017, the Agency’s final action designating non-attainment areas"
"was  not issued until April 30, 2018.  At that time, EPA designated the geographic areas containing Yuma and  Phoenix, Arizona as in non-attainment with the 2015 70 ppb ozone NAAQS.  The vast majority of APS’s  natural gas-fired EGUs are located in these jurisdictions.  Areas of Arizona and the Navajo Nation where  the remainder of APS’s fossil-fuel fired EGU fleet is located were designated as in attainment.  At this  time, because proposed SIPs and FIPs implementing the revised ozone NAAQSs"
"have yet to be released,  APS is unable to predict what impact the adoption of these standards may have on APS.  APS will continue  to monitor these standards as they are implemented within the jurisdictions affecting APS. Table of Contents 23  EPA Good Neighbor Proposal for Arizona.  On March 15, 2023, EPA issued its final Good  Neighbor Plan for 23 states in order to ensure that the cross-state transport of ozone forming emissions  does not interfere with downwind state compliance with the"
"National Ambient Air Quality Standards  (“NAAQS”).  Thermal power plant emission limitations are a key aspect of these regulations, which  involve emission allowance trading for nitrogen oxide (“NOx”) emissions.  While Arizona was not among  the 23 states subject to EPA’s March 2023 final action, EPA announced on January 23, 2024 that it was  proposing to add Arizona and New Mexico (along with two other additional states) to EPA’s NOx  emission allowance trading program finalized last year."
"That proposal involves adding these states to the  Good Neighbor Plan and disapproving the corresponding provisions of each state’s State Implementation  Plan.  Because APS operates thermal power plants within Arizona and those portions of the Navajo Nation  within New Mexico, APS’s power plants would be subject to EPA’s Good Neighbor Plan upon finalization  of this proposal.  EPA’s final Good Neighbor Plan is subject to ongoing judicial review in the D.C. Circuit  Court of Appeals.  On June 27,"
"2024, the U.S. Supreme Court granted a motion to stay the effectiveness of  EPA’s final Good Neighbor Plan pending the resolution of the litigation.  As such, APS will not be  impacted by the Good Neighbor Plan until the outcome of this litigation is finalized.  In addition, on  December 19, 2024, EPA announced that it was withdrawing its proposal to add Arizona (along with other  western states) to the federal Good Neighbor Plan.  As such, while EPA may elect to resume work on and  finalize"
"this proposal in the future, it is unlikely to do so over a near-term horizon.  APS cannot predict the  outcome of any future EPA efforts to add Arizona to the federal Good Neighbor Plan (which depends on  action disapproving the Arizona State Implementation Plan) or whether the Good Neighbor Plan itself will  remain in effect pending the outcome of judicial review in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals.  Should the  Good Neighbor Plan ultimately be imposed on APS and its operations in Arizona and"
"New Mexico, it  would have material impact on both the costs to operate current APS power plants and APS’s ability to  develop new thermal generation to serve load.  At this time, APS cannot predict the impact on the  Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Revised Mercury and Air Toxics Standard (“MATS”) Proposal.  On April 25, 2024, EPA  finalized revisions to the existing MATS regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollution from  existing coal-fired power"
"plants.  The final regulations increase the stringency of filterable particulate  matter limits used to demonstrate compliance with MATS and require the use of continuous emissions  monitoring systems to ensure compliance (as opposed to periodic performance testing).  These final  regulations will take effect for existing coal-fired power plants, such as Four Corners, within three years of  publication in the Federal Register.  Based on APS’s assessment of the revised MATS regulations, this"
"final rule is unlikely to have a material impact on plant operations or require significant capital  expenditures to ensure compliance. Superfund-Related Matters.  The Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and  Liability Act (“Superfund” or “CERCLA”) establishes liability for the cleanup of hazardous substances  found contaminating the soil, water or air.  Those who released, generated, transported to or disposed of  hazardous substances at a contaminated site are among the parties"
"who are potentially responsible (each a  “PRP”).  PRPs may be strictly, jointly, and severally liable for clean-up.  On September 3, 2003, EPA  advised APS that EPA considers APS to be a PRP in the Motorola 52nd Street Superfund Site, Operable  Unit 3 (“OU3”) in Phoenix, Arizona.  APS has facilities that are within this Superfund site.  APS and  Pinnacle West have agreed with EPA to perform certain investigative activities of the APS facilities within  OU3.  In addition, on September 23, 2009,"
"APS agreed with EPA and one other PRP to voluntarily assist  with the funding and management of the site-wide groundwater remedial investigation and feasibility study  (“RI/FS”).  The RI/FS for OU3 was finalized and submitted to EPA at the end of 2022.  EPA notified APS  that the RI/FS was approved on September 11, 2024.  APS’s estimated costs related to this investigation  and study is approximately $3 million.  APS anticipates incurring additional expenditures in the future, but  Table of"
"Contents 24  because the final costs associated with remediation requirements set forth in the RI/FS are not yet finalized,  at the present time expenditures related to this matter cannot be reasonably estimated.  In connection with APS’s status as a PRP for OU3, since 2013 APS and at least two dozen other  parties have been defendants in various CERCLA lawsuits stemming from allegations that contamination  from OU3 and elsewhere has impacted groundwater wells operated by the Roosevelt"
"Irrigation District  (“RID”).  At this time, only one active lawsuit remains pending in the U.S. District Court for Arizona,  which concerns $8.3 million in remediation legal expenses.  APS is unable to predict the outcome of any  further litigation related to this claim or APS’s share of liability related to that claim; however, APS does  not expect the outcome to have a material impact on its financial position, results of operations or cash  flows.  On February 28, 2022, EPA provided APS with"
"a request for information under CERCLA related  to APS’s Ocotillo power plant site located in Tempe, Arizona.  In particular, EPA seeks information from  APS regarding APS’s use, storage, and disposal of substances containing per-and polyfluoroalkyl  (“PFAS”) compounds at the Ocotillo power plant site in order to aid EPA’s investigation into actual or  threatened releases of PFAS into groundwater within the South Indian Bend Wash (“SIBW”) Superfund  site.  The SIBW Superfund site includes the"
"APS Ocotillo power plant site.  APS filed its response to this  information request on April 29, 2022.  On January 17, 2023, EPA contacted APS to inform APS that it  would be commencing on-site investigations within the SIBW site, including the Ocotillo power plant, and  performing a remedial investigation and feasibility study related to potential PFAS impacts to groundwater  over the next two to three years.  APS estimates that its costs to oversee and participate in the remedial"
"investigation work will be approximately $1.7 million.  At the present time, we are unable to predict the  outcome of this matter, and any further expenditures related to necessary remediation, if any, or further  investigations cannot be reasonably estimated.  Four Corners National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit  The latest NPDES permit for Four Corners was issued on September 30, 2019.  Based upon a  November 1, 2019 filing by several environmental groups, the Environmental"
"Appeals Board (“EAB”)  took up review of the Four Corners NPDES Permit.  The EAB denied the environmental group petition on      September 30, 2020.  While on January 22, 2021, the environmental groups filed a petition for review of  the EAB’s decision with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, the parties to the litigation  (including APS) finalized a settlement on May 2, 2022.  This settlement requires investigation of thermal  wastewater discharges from Four Corners,"
"administratively closes the litigation filed in January of 2021,  and APS does not expect the outcome to have a material impact on its financial condition, results of  operations, or cash flows. Table of Contents 25  Water Supply Based on a declaration from the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, as of January 1, 2025, Arizona’s  supply of Colorado River water will remain subject to a Tier 1 shortage.  This is the third year since 2022  that a Tier 1 shortage has been declared.  The most severe shortage"
"to have been declared was a Tier 2a  shortage in 2023.  A Tier 1 shortage reduces Arizona’s share of the Colorado River water by 18 percent or  512,000-acre feet; however, due to in-state conservation measures, Arizona has kept more Colorado River  water in Lake Mead than is required by the shortage.  Tier 1 reductions are largely felt by central Arizona’s  agricultural users, mainly in Pinal County.  Assured supplies of water are important for APS’s generating  plants.  At this time, a Tier 1"
"shortage does not materially impact water supplies used by APS’s fleet of  generation resources.  As drought conditions across the southwestern U.S. region continue to worsen, APS  will monitor water availability necessary for continued Company operations and, as necessary, implement  measures to mitigate risks associated with future Colorado River shortage declarations.        Conflicting claims to drought-impacted surface water in the southwestern United States have  resulted in disputes and"
"numerous court actions.  The General Stream Adjudication allows the state to issue  a final priority determination on claims to surface water rights.  There are three General Stream  Adjudications near APS generating stations that may impact surface water or groundwater supplies that are  adjacent to surface water streams. San Juan River Adjudication.  Both groundwater and surface water in areas important to APS’s  operations have been the subject of inquiries, claims, and legal proceedings,"
"which will require a number of  years to resolve.  APS is one of numerous parties in a proceeding, filed March 13, 1975, before the  Eleventh Judicial District Court in New Mexico to adjudicate rights to a stream system from which water  for Four Corners is derived.  An agreement reached with the Navajo Nation in 1985, however, provides  that if Four Corners loses a portion of its rights in the adjudication, the Navajo Nation will provide, for an  agreed upon cost, sufficient water from its"
"allocation to offset the loss.  In addition, APS is a party to a  water contract that allows the Company to secure water for Four Corners in the event of a water shortage in  the San Juan River Basin. Gila River Adjudication.  A summons served on APS in early 1986 required all water claimants in  the Lower Gila River Watershed in Arizona to assert any claims to water on or before January 20, 1987, in  an action pending in Arizona Superior Court.  Palo Verde is located within the geographic area"
"subject to  the summons.  APS’s rights and the rights of the other Palo Verde participants to the use of groundwater  and effluent at Palo Verde are potentially at issue in this adjudication.  As operating agent of Palo Verde,  APS filed claims that dispute the court’s jurisdiction over the Palo Verde participants’ groundwater rights  and their contractual rights to effluent relating to Palo Verde.  Alternatively, APS seeks confirmation of  such rights.  Several of APS’s other power plants are"
"also located within the geographic area subject to the  summons, including a number of gas-fired power plants located within Maricopa and Pinal Counties.  In  November 1999, the Arizona Supreme Court issued a decision confirming that certain groundwater rights  may be available to the federal government and Indian tribes.  In addition, in September 2000, the Arizona  Supreme Court issued a decision affirming the lower court’s criteria for resolving groundwater claims.   Litigation on both of"
"these issues has continued in the trial court.  In December 2005, APS and other  parties filed a petition with the Arizona Supreme Court requesting interlocutory review of a September  2005 trial court order regarding procedures for determining whether groundwater pumping is affecting  surface water rights.  The Arizona Supreme Court denied the petition in May 2007, and the trial court is  now proceeding with implementation of its 2005 order.  No trial date concerning APS’s water rights claims"
"has been set in this matter. Table of Contents 26  At this time, the lower court proceedings in the Gila River adjudication are in the process of  determining the specific hydro-geologic testing protocols for determining which groundwater wells located  outside of the subflow zone of the Gila River should be subject to the adjudication court’s jurisdiction.   A  hearing to determine this jurisdictional test question was held in March 2018 in front of a special master,  and a draft decision based"
"on the evidence heard during that hearing was issued on May 17, 2018.  The  decision of the special master, which was finalized on November 14, 2018, accepts the proposed hydro- geologic testing protocols supported by APS and other industrial users of groundwater.  A further ruling  affirming this decision by the trial court judge overseeing the adjudication was issued on July 8, 2022.   Further proceedings have been initiated to determine the specific hydro-geologic testing protocols for"
"subflow depletion determinations.  The determinations made in this final stage of the proceedings may  ultimately govern the adjudication of rights for parties, such as APS, that rely on groundwater extraction to  support their industrial operations.  APS cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings.  Little Colorado River Adjudication.  APS has filed claims to water in the Little Colorado River  Watershed in Arizona in an action pending in the Apache County, Arizona, Superior Court, which"
"was  originally filed on September 5, 1985.  APS’s groundwater resource utilized at Cholla is within the  geographic area subject to the adjudication and, therefore, is potentially at issue in the case.  APS’s claims  dispute the court’s jurisdiction over its groundwater rights.  Alternatively, APS seeks confirmation of such  rights.  No trial or pretrial proceedings have been scheduled for adjudication of APS’s water right claims.   The adjudication court is currently conducting a trial of"
"federal reserved water right claims asserted by the  Hopi Tribe and by the United States as trustee for the Tribe.  In addition, the adjudication court has  established a schedule for consideration of separate federal reserved water right claims asserted by the  Navajo Nation and by the United States as trustee for the Nation.  There is no established timeframe within  which the adjudication court is expected to issue a final determination of water rights for the Hopi Tribe  and the Navajo"
"Nation, and any such final determination is likely to occur multiple years in the future. Although the above matters remain subject to further evaluation, APS does not expect that the  described litigation will have a material adverse impact on its financial condition, results of operations, or  cash flows. Human Capital The Company’s success depends on a strong human capital strategy including attracting,  developing, and retaining a high-performing workforce.  We are committed to fostering a"
"safe, inclusive,  and engaging work environment that empowers all employees to reach their full potential.  Key human  capital measures and objectives that drive our business strategy include employee safety, employee  development, strong company culture based upon the APS Promise, strong talent pipelines, extensive  learning and development focus, and succession planning. Table of Contents 27  The below table presents the employee count as of December 31, 2024:    Principal Executive Office"
"Address Year of Formation Approximate Number of Employees at December 31, 2024 Pinnacle West 400 North Fifth Street Phoenix, AZ 85004 1985   88  APS 400 North Fifth Street P.O. Box 53999 Phoenix, AZ 85072-3999 1920   6,315 (a) El Dorado 400 North Fifth Street Phoenix, AZ 85004 1983   —  PNW Power 400 North Fifth Street Phoenix, AZ 85004 2023   —  Total       6,403    (a)  Includes employees at jointly-owned generating facilities (approximately 2,300 employees) for which APS  serves as the"
"generating facility manager. Approximately 1,180 APS employees are union employees represented by International  Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (“IBEW”).  On September 25, 2023, the IBEW membership ratified a  new collective bargaining agreement (“CBA”) with APS.  The new CBA became effective in October 2023  and has a duration of three years until April 1, 2026 and thereafter until either party gives notice of desire  for change, amendment, or termination.  On August 23, 2024, 27 IT"
"Communications Field Specialists  joined the existing bargaining unit represented by IBEW.  Collective bargaining relating to these  employees is ongoing. Table of Contents 28  Culture and Engagement The APS Promise anchors our commitment to our customers, community, and each other.  The  Promise explains our purpose, vision, and mission and the principles and behaviors that will empower us to  achieve our strategic goals.  It represents the opportunity to build on our cultural strengths and"
"develop new  behaviors to enable our future success.  The APS Promise continues to be reinforced and integrated  throughout our Company programs and messaging. We evaluate our success in building this culture in part through annual and quarterly employee  engagement surveys, including our Employee Experience Index, which measures key aspects of  engagement such as recognition, career development, and organizational pride.  In 2024, we had 80%  participation in these surveys, and our Employee"
"Experience Index was 87%.  These surveys enable us to  compare our performance to industry benchmarks and identify areas for improvement. Based on the survey results, we encourage business units and managers to take action.  For  example, past surveys have led to initiatives that we believe improved communication, removed job  success obstacles, increased employee access to leadership, and enhanced meeting efficiency. We actively seek feedback from new hires to further refine the employee"
"onboarding experience.   Our cross-functional Employee Engagement Council plays a key role in driving improvements, particularly  in employee engagement and recognition. Table of Contents 29  We believe that belonging matters.  We recognize that differences of identities, perspectives, and  experiences is a key driver for our success.  Inclusion at the Company involves embracing the unique  perspectives of each employee.  Examples of the Company’s efforts in this space include the following: •"
"Support for 11 employee networking groups to encourage employees to develop themselves,  advance in their chosen field, and join a community; • Executive listening sessions to provide employees with opportunities to be heard; and • An optional self-paced module available to all employees that explains how cultural  competence drives inclusion. Employee Safety Our work and our decisions are anchored in safety – safety is the foundation of everything we do,  and employee safety is our paramount"
"responsibility as an employer.  We develop practices and programs  that ensure employees have safe and secure workplaces that allow them to perform at the highest levels.   We utilize preventative programs like APS Moves to help keep our workforce healthy and prepare them to  perform tasks safely.  Our comprehensive safety programs and our focus on human and organizational  performance and injury case management contribute significantly to our strong safety performance.  As we  continue to"
"improve our safety performance, our ultimate goal remains serious injury reduction.  We  believe our employees are empowered to speak up when there are better or safer ways of doing business.   Safety committees operate in organizations throughout the Company, providing opportunities for  employees to positively impact their local safety cultures and performance.  Additionally, the Company’s  executive safety committee helps ensure strong safety governance and operational integration across the"
"enterprise and employee-led learning teams help ensure that lessons learned from close calls and other  safety incidents are shared for the benefit of employees across the enterprise.  Talent Strategy and Pipeline Development Attracting and developing a highly skilled workforce is critical to our success.  To this end, our  talent strategy prioritizes the following: • Commitment to Growth and Development: We provide a wide range of professional  development opportunities, including leadership"
"academies, rotational programs, mentoring,  industry certifications, and loaned executive programs.  In 2024, we ran dedicated programs for  individual contributors, new leaders, and high potential managers.  We also launched an  enterprise-wide on-demand learning platform to support a modern learning culture, with over  2,220 active users, encompassing engagement from every business unit and 5,650 hours of  learning in 2024.  • Robust Talent Pipelines: Our pipeline strategy focuses on"
"attracting and developing early- and  mid-career talent for critical energy sector positions, including lineworkers, substation  electricians, cybersecurity specialists, engineers, and nuclear power plant operators and  technicians.  We achieve this through an array of programs, including craft apprenticeships,  engineering and rotational programs, and internships.  We partner closely with educational  institutions and organizations to build a talent-ready pool for these critical roles.  •"
"Strategic Partnerships: We leverage partnerships with colleges, universities, vocational  schools, and the Department of Defense SkillBridge program to access a wide pool of qualified  candidates, including transitioning military personnel. Table of Contents 30  • Innovation in Talent Acquisition: Palo Verde expanded its internship programs in 2024 to  include nuclear operations, further strengthening our talent pipeline for the critically important  licensed and non-licensed operators. These"
"initiatives contribute to a high-performing and engaged workforce that supports the long- term success of our Company. Succession Planning Succession planning is critical to ensuring the long-term success of our Company.  We have a  robust process for identifying and developing high-potential leaders to fill key executive and other critical  roles.  This involves regularly reviewing and updating succession plans for key positions, identifying and  assessing potential successors, and providing"
"targeted development opportunities such as mentoring,  coaching, and challenging rotational assignments.  We also evaluate leadership potential through  assessments, performance reviews, and 360-degree feedback.  We collaborate with senior leadership to  build a pipeline of qualified internal and external candidates and continuously adapt our succession  planning process to meet evolving business needs and industry trends. Total Rewards Strategy Recognizing that our employees are among our most"
"valuable assets, we have developed a  comprehensive Total Rewards strategy to attract, engage, and retain a high-performing workforce.  Our  Total Rewards program encompasses a comprehensive suite of offerings, including competitive  compensation, a robust benefits package, retirement savings plans, professional development opportunities,  recognition programs, and a focus on employee well-being.  This holistic approach aims to (1) attract and  retain top talent by offering a competitive and"
"attractive compensation and benefits package, (2) support  employee well-being by promoting a healthy work-life balance and providing resources to support  employee physical, mental, and financial well-being, (3) foster employee engagement and motivation  through recognition programs, professional development opportunities, and a strong emphasis on career  growth, and (4) enhance employee satisfaction by creating a rewarding and fulfilling work experience for  all employees.  We continuously"
"evaluate and refine our Total Rewards program to ensure it remains  competitive, relevant, and responsive to the evolving needs and expectations of our employees. BUSINESS OF OTHER SUBSIDIARIES PNW Power On August 4, 2023, Pinnacle West entered into a purchase and sale agreement pursuant to which  we agreed to sell all of our equity interest in our wholly-owned subsidiary BCE to Ameresco (the “BCE  Sale”).  The transaction was accounted for as the sale of a business and closed in multiple"
"stages.  The final  closing of the BCE Sale was completed on January 12, 2024.  See Note 20 for additional details.  Certain  investments and assets that BCE previously held, including the TransCanyon joint venture and holdings in  the two Tenaska wind farm investments, were not included in the BCE Sale and were instead transferred to  PNW Power, a Delaware limited liability corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pinnacle West.  PNW Power’s investments include TransCanyon, a 50/50 joint"
"venture that was formed in 2014  with BHE U.S. Transmission LLC, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Energy Company.  TransCanyon is  pursuing independent electric transmission opportunities within the 11 U.S. states that comprise the  Western Interconnection, excluding opportunities related to transmission service that would otherwise be  Table of Contents 31  provided under the tariffs of the retail service territories of the venture partners’ utility affiliates.  The U.S.  DOE’s Grid"
"Deployment Office selected TransCanyon to enter into capacity contract negotiations for up to  25% of the Cross-Tie 500-kilovolt transmission line (“Cross-Tie”) as part of the Transmission Facilitation  Program.  The agreement was executed on June 12, 2024.  The proposed Cross-Tie project includes a 214- mile transmission line connecting Utah and Nevada that is intended to help improve grid reliability and  relieve congestion on other transmission lines. PNW Power’s investments also include"
"minority ownership positions in two wind farms operated  by Tenaska Energy, Inc. and Tenaska Energy Holdings, LLC, the 242 MW Clear Creek and the 250 MW  Nobles 2 wind farms.  Clear Creek achieved commercial operation in May 2020; however, in the fourth  quarter of 2022, PNW Power’s equity method investment was fully impaired.  Nobles 2 achieved  commercial operation in December 2020.  Both wind farms deliver power under long-term power purchase  agreements (“PPAs”).  PNW Power indirectly owns"
"9.9% of Clear Creek and 5.1% of Nobles 2. El Dorado   El Dorado is an Arizona corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pinnacle West.  El Dorado  owns debt investments and minority interests in several energy-related investments and Arizona  community-based ventures.  In particular, El Dorado has committed to and holds the following: • $25 million investment in the Energy Impact Partners fund, of which approximately $18.8  million has been funded as of December 31, 2024.  Energy Impact"
"Partners is an organization  that focuses on fostering innovation and supporting the transformation of the utility industry.   • $25 million investment in AZ-VC (formerly invisionAZ Fund), of which approximately $11.8  million has been funded as of December 31, 2024.  AZ-VC is a fund focused on analyzing,  investing, managing, and otherwise dealing with investments in privately-held early stage and  emerging growth technology companies and businesses primarily based in Arizona, or based in"
"other jurisdictions and having existing or potential strategic or economic ties to companies or  other interests in Arizona.   • $7.5 million investment in Westly Seed Fund, of which approximately $1.2 million has been  funded as of December 31, 2024.  Westly Seed Fund is focused on supporting entrepreneurs  involved in the energy, mobility, building, and industrial sectors. • Equity investment in SAI Advanced Power Solutions (“SAI”), a private corporation that  manufactures electrical"
"switchgear equipment used by data centers.  El Dorado accounts for  this investment under the equity method, with a December 31, 2024 investment carrying value  of zero.  SAI has seen an increased demand for their customized switchgear products.  El  Dorado has no funding commitments to SAI. The remainder of these investment commitments will be contributed by El Dorado as each  investment fund selects and makes investments. Table of Contents 32  WHERE TO FIND MORE INFORMATION We use our website"
"(www.pinnaclewest.com) as a channel of distribution for material Company  information.  The following filings are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably  practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange  Commission (“SEC”):  Annual Reports on Form 10-K, definitive proxy statements for our annual  shareholder meetings, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments  to those reports.  The SEC"
"maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and  other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC.  The  address of that website is www.sec.gov.  Our board and committee charters, Code of Ethics for Financial  Executives, Code of Ethics and Business Practices, and other corporate governance information is also  available on the Pinnacle West website.  Pinnacle West will post any amendments to the Code of Ethics for"
"Financial Executives and Code of Ethics and Business Practices, and any waivers that are required to be  disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange on its website.  The information  on Pinnacle West’s website is not incorporated by reference into this report.   You can request a copy of these documents, excluding exhibits, by contacting Pinnacle West at the  following address:  Pinnacle West Capital Corporation, Office of the Corporate Secretary, Mail Station  8602,"
"P.O. Box 53999, Phoenix, Arizona 85072-3999 (telephone 602-250-3011).   ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in the description of these  operations contained elsewhere in this report, set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could affect  our financial results.  Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, the following risks and  uncertainties apply to Pinnacle West and its subsidiaries, including APS."
"REGULATORY RISKS Our financial condition depends upon APS’s ability to recover costs in a timely manner from customers  through regulated rates and otherwise execute its business strategy. APS is subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies  that significantly influence its business, liquidity and results of operations and its ability to fully recover  costs from utility customers in a timely manner.  The ACC regulates APS’s retail electric rates"
"and FERC  regulates rates for wholesale power sales and transmission services.  The profitability of APS is affected by  the rates it may charge and the timeliness of recovering costs incurred through its rates and adjustor  recovery mechanisms.  Consequently, our financial condition and results of operations are dependent upon  the satisfactory resolution of any APS rate proceedings, adjustor recovery and ancillary matters which may  come before the ACC and FERC, including in some cases how"
"court challenges to these regulatory  decisions are resolved.  Arizona, like certain other states, has a statute that allows the ACC to reopen prior  decisions and modify otherwise final orders under certain circumstances.  Additionally, given that APS is  subject to oversight by several regulatory agencies, a resolution by one may not foreclose potential actions  by others for similar or related matters.  See Note 10. The ACC must also approve APS’s issuance of equity and debt securities, and"
"any significant  transfer or encumbrance of APS property used to provide retail electric service and must approve or  receive prior notification of certain transactions between us, APS, and our respective affiliates, including  the infusion of equity into APS.  Decisions made by the ACC or FERC could have a material adverse  impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Table of Contents 33  APS’s ability to conduct its business operations and avoid negative"
"operational and financial impacts  depends in part upon compliance with federal, state and local laws, judicial decisions, statutes,  regulations and ACC requirements, which may be revised from time to time by legislative or other  action, and obtaining and maintaining certain regulatory permits, approvals, and certificates. APS must comply in good faith with all applicable statutes, regulations, rules, tariffs, and orders of  agencies that regulate APS’s business, including FERC, NRC, EPA, the"
"ACC, and state and local  governmental agencies.  These agencies regulate many aspects of APS’s utility operations, including safety  and performance, emissions, siting and construction of facilities, labor and employment, customer service  and the rates that APS can charge retail and wholesale customers.  Failure to comply can subject APS to,  among other things, fines and penalties.  For example, under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC can  impose penalties (approximately $1.2 million per"
"day per violation) for failure to comply with mandatory  electric reliability standards.  APS is also required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates  from these agencies.  APS believes the necessary permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for  its existing operations and that APS’s business is conducted in accordance with applicable laws in all  material respects.   Changes in laws or regulations that govern APS, new interpretations of laws and regulations, or the"
"imposition of new or revised laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on the manner in which we  operate our business and our results of operations.  In particular, new or revised laws or interpretations of  existing laws or regulations may impact or call into question the ACC’s permissive regulatory authority,  which may result in uncertainty as to jurisdictional authority within our state, and uncertainty as to whether  ACC decisions will be binding or challenged by other agencies or"
"bodies asserting jurisdiction.  We are  unable to predict the impact on our business and operating results from any pending or future regulatory or  legislative rulemaking. The operation of APS’s nuclear power plant exposes it to substantial regulatory oversight and  potentially significant liabilities and capital expenditures. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose safety-related, security-related and other  licensing requirements for the operation of nuclear generating"
"facilities.  Events at nuclear facilities of  other operators or impacting the industry generally may lead the NRC to impose additional requirements  and regulations on all nuclear generating facilities, including Palo Verde.  In the event of noncompliance  with its requirements, the NRC has the authority to impose a progressively increased inspection regime that  could ultimately result in the shut-down of a unit or civil penalties, or both, depending upon the NRC’s  assessment of the severity"
"of the situation, until compliance is achieved.  The increased costs resulting  from penalties, a heightened level of scrutiny and implementation of plans to achieve compliance with  NRC requirements may adversely affect APS’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. APS is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, and changes in, or liabilities under,  existing or new laws or regulations may increase APS’s cost of operations or impact its business plans. APS is,"
"or may become, subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many  aspects of its present and future operations, including air emissions of conventional pollutants and GHGs,  water quality, discharges of wastewater and waste streams originating from fly ash and bottom ash  handling facilities, solid waste, hazardous waste, and coal combustion products, which consist of bottom  ash, fly ash, and air pollution control wastes.  These laws and regulations can result in increased"
"capital,  operating, and other costs, particularly with regard to enforcement efforts focused on power plant  emissions obligations.  They could also impact the overall business environment in Arizona and affect  APS’s customer and sales growth rates.  Additionally, these laws and regulations generally require APS to  obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, and other approvals.  If there is a  delay or failure to obtain any required environmental regulatory"
"approval, or if APS fails to obtain,  Table of Contents 34  maintain, or comply with any such approval, operations at affected facilities could be suspended or subject  to additional expenses.  In addition, failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations  could result in civil liability as a result of government enforcement actions or private claims or criminal  penalties.  Both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce applicable environmental laws  and"
"regulations.  APS cannot predict the outcome (financial or operational) of any related litigation that  may arise. Environmental Clean Up.  APS has been named as a PRP for Superfund sites in Phoenix, Arizona,  and it could be named a PRP in the future for other environmental clean-up at sites identified by a  regulatory body.  APS cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures  related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up"
"costs.  There is also  uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all  PRPs. Coal Ash.  In December 2014, the EPA issued final regulations governing the handling and  disposal of CCR, which are generated as a result of burning coal and consist of, among other things, fly ash  and bottom ash.  The rule regulates CCR as a non-hazardous waste.  APS disposes of CCR in ash ponds  and dry storage areas.  To the extent the rule requires"
"the closure or modification of these CCR units,  modification or changes to the manner of closure of such units, or the construction of new CCR units  beyond what we currently anticipate, APS would incur significant additional costs for CCR disposal.  In  addition, the rule may also require corrective action to address releases from CCR disposal units or the  presence of CCR constituents within groundwater near CCR disposal units above certain regulatory  thresholds.  Ozone National Ambient Air"
"Quality Standards.  In 2015, the EPA finalized revisions to the  NAAQS for ozone, which set new, more stringent standards on emissions of nitrogen oxide, a precursor to  ozone, in an effort to protect human health and human welfare.  Depending on the final attainment  designations for the new standards and the state implementation requirements, APS may be required to  invest in new pollution control technologies and to generate emission offsets for new projects or facility  expansions located in"
"ozone nonattainment areas.  In addition, the EPA may in the future further increase  the stringency of various NAAQS, including for ozone or other pollutants, such as particulate matter.  With  regard to even more stringent NAAQS requirements, additional control measures and compliance costs  may become necessary for APS as well as its current and potential future customers. APS cannot assure that existing environmental regulations will not be revised or that new  regulations seeking to protect"
"the environment will not be adopted or become applicable to it.  Revised or  additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions,  particularly if those costs incurred by APS are not fully recoverable from APS’s customers, could have a  material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.  Due to current or  potential future regulations or legislation coupled with trends in natural gas and coal prices, or"
"other clean  energy rules or initiatives, the economics or feasibility of continuing to own certain resources, particularly  coal facilities, may deteriorate, warranting early retirement of those plants, which may result in asset  impairments.  APS would seek recovery in rates for the book value of any remaining investments in the  plants as well as other costs related to early retirement but cannot predict whether it would obtain such  recovery.  Such regulations may also act as a deterrent to"
"future customer growth or create additional costs  for existing customers, potentially slowing APS’s customer growth.  APS faces potential financial risks resulting from climate change litigation and legislative and  regulatory efforts to limit GHG emissions, as well as physical and operational risks related to climate  effects. Table of Contents 35  Concern over climate change has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit CO2,  which is a major byproduct of the combustion"
"of fossil fuel, and other GHG emissions.   Potential Financial Risks — Greenhouse Gas Regulation, the Clean Power Plan and Potential  Litigation.  On April 25, 2024, the EPA issued new GHG emission standards for power plants.  These new  standards are focused on limiting power plant GHG emissions through control mechanisms that can be  implemented at individual power plant facilities.  The new regulations are currently being challenged in  federal court.  Additionally, the Trump administration"
"has stated that it intends to reverse or substantially  revise these standards.  See Item 1 - Environmental Matters - Climate Change for more information.  Depending on the outcome of carbon emission rulemaking under the Clean Air Act targeting new  and existing power plants, the utility industry may become subject to more stringent and expansive  regulations.  Depending on the means of compliance with federal emission performance standards, the  electric utility industry may be forced to incur"
"substantial costs necessary to achieve compliance.  In  addition, we anticipate that such regulations will be challenged in federal court prior to their  implementation.  Depending on the outcome of such judicial review, the utility industry may face  alternative efforts from private parties seeking to establish alternative GHG emission limitations from  power plants.  Alternative GHG emission limitations may arise from litigation under either federal or state  common laws or citizen suit"
"provisions of federal environmental statutes that attempt to force federal  agency rulemaking or impose direct facility emission limitations.  Such lawsuits may also seek damages  from harm alleged to have resulted from power plant GHG emissions. Physical and Operational Risks.  Weather extremes such as drought and high temperature  variations are common occurrences in the southwestern United States’ desert area, and these are risks that  APS considers in the normal course of business in the"
"engineering and construction of its electric system.   Large increases in ambient temperatures could require evaluation of certain materials used within its  system and may represent a greater challenge.  Limitations on water supplies necessary to operate electric  generation infrastructure could arise from prolonged drought and shortage declarations associated with key  surface water resources.  As part of conducting its business, APS recognizes that the southwestern United  States is"
"particularly susceptible to the risks posed by climate change, which over time is projected to  exacerbate high temperature extremes and prolong drought in the area where APS conducts its business. Co-owners of our jointly owned generation and transmission facilities may have unaligned goals and  positions due to the effects of legislation, regulations, economic conditions, or changes in our industry,  which could have a significant impact on our ability to continue operations of such"
"facilities. APS owns certain of its power plants and transmission facilities jointly with other owners, with  varying ownership interests in such facilities.  Changes in the nature of our industry and the economic  viability of certain plants and facilities, including impacts resulting from types and availability of other  resources, fuel costs, legislation, and regulation, together with timing considerations related to the  expiration of leases or other agreements for such facilities, could"
"result in unaligned positions among co- owners.  Differences in the co-owners’ willingness or ability to continue their participation could lead to  the eventual shut down of units or facilities and uncertainty related to the resulting cost recovery of such  assets.  See Note 3 for a discussion of the Navajo Plant and Cholla retirement and the related risks  associated with APS’s continued recovery of its remaining investment in the plant. Deregulation or restructuring of the electric industry"
"may result in increased competition, which could  have a significant adverse impact on APS’s business and its results of operations. In November 2018, the ACC voted to re-examine the facilitation of a deregulated retail electric  market in Arizona.  On July 1 and July 2, 2019, ACC Staff issued a report and initial proposed draft rules  regarding possible modifications to the ACC’s retail electric competition rules.  On February 10, 2020, two  ACC Commissioners filed two sets of draft proposed"
"retail electric competition rules.  On February 12,  Table of Contents 36  2020, ACC Staff issued its second report regarding possible modifications to the ACC’s retail electric  competition rules.  During a July 15, 2020, ACC Staff meeting, the ACC Commissioners discussed the  possible development of a retail competition pilot program, but no action was taken.  The ACC continues  to discuss matters related to retail electric competition, including the potential for additional buy-through"
"programs or other pilot programs.  In April 2022, the Arizona Legislature passed, and the Governor signed,  a bill that repealed the electric deregulation law that had been in place in Arizona since 1998.  On       August 27, 2024, the ACC administratively closed this docket due to inactivity and obsolescence.   Modification of the ACC’s retail electric competition rules or other efforts of deregulation could result in  increased competition, which could have a significant adverse impact on"
"APS’s business and results of  operations. OPERATIONAL RISKS APS’s results of operations can be adversely affected by various factors impacting demand for  electricity. Weather Conditions.  Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and affect  the price of energy commodities.  Electric power demand is generally a seasonal business.  In Arizona,  demand for power peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time.  As a  result, APS’s overall"
"operating results fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis.  In addition, APS has  historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder.  As  a result, unusually mild weather could diminish APS’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash  flows. Apart from the impact on electricity demand, weather conditions related to prolonged high  temperatures or extreme heat events present operational challenges.  In the southwestern United"
"States,  where APS conducts its business, the effects of climate change are projected to increase the overall average  temperature, lead to more extreme temperature events, and exacerbate prolonged drought conditions  leading to the declining availability of water resources.  Extreme heat events and rising temperatures are  projected to reduce the generation capacity of thermal-power plants and decrease the efficiency of the  transmission grid.  These operational risks related to rising"
"temperatures and extreme heat events could  affect APS’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.   Higher temperatures may decrease the snowpack, which might result in lowered soil moisture and  an increased threat of wildfires.  Wildfires could threaten APS’s communities and electric transmission  lines and facilities.  Any damage caused as a result of wildfires could negatively impact APS’s financial  condition, results of operations, or cash flows.  In addition, the"
"decrease in snowpack can also lead to  reduced water supplies in the areas where APS relies upon non-renewable water resources to supply  cooling and process water for electricity generation.  Prolonged and extreme drought conditions can also  affect APS’s long-term ability to access the water resources necessary for thermal electricity generation  operations.  Reductions in the availability of water for power plant cooling could negatively impact APS’s  financial condition, results of"
"operations, or cash flows. Effects of Energy Conservation Measures and Distributed Energy Resources.  APS customers in  energy efficiency and conservation programs and other demand-side management efforts, which in turn  impact the demand for electricity.  APS must also meet certain distributed renewable energy requirements.   A portion of APS’s total renewable energy requirement must be met with an increasing percentage of  distributed renewable energy resources (generally, small-scale"
"renewable technologies located on  customers’ properties).  The distributed renewable energy requirement is 30% of the applicable RES  requirement for 2012 and subsequent years (APS requested a waiver of this requirement in the 2024 and  2025 RES Implementation Plans, which have not yet been approved by the ACC).  Customer participation  Table of Contents 37  in distributed renewable energy programs would result in lower demand since customers would be meeting  some of their own energy needs. In"
"addition to these rules and requirements, energy efficiency technologies and distributed energy  resources continue to evolve, which may have similar impacts on the demand for electricity.  Reduced  demand due to these energy efficiency requirements, distributed energy requirements and other emerging  technologies, unless substantially offset through ratemaking mechanisms, could have a material adverse  impact on APS’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Actual and"
"Projected Customer and Sales Growth.  APS’s actual sales growth, excluding weather- related variations, may differ from its projections as a result of numerous factors, such as economic  conditions, customer growth, the legal, regulatory, and business environment in Arizona, usage patterns  and energy conservation, slower than expected ramp-up of and/or fewer than expected data centers and  large manufacturing facilities, slower than expected commercial and industrial expansions, impacts of"
"energy efficiency programs and growth in DG, responses to retail price changes,  changes in regulatory  standards, and impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and  regulations.  Based on past experience, a 1% variation in our annual residential and small commercial and  industrial kWh sales projections under normal business conditions can result in increases or decreases in  annual net income of approximately $24 million, and a 1% variation in our annual"
"large commercial and  industrial kWh sales projections under normal business conditions can result in increases or decreases in  annual net income of approximately $6 million. Longer term, APS has been preparing for and can serve significant load growth from residential  and business customers.  On top of these existing growth trends, APS is also now receiving unprecedented  incremental requests for service from extra-large commercial energy users (over 25 MW) with very high  energy demands that"
"persist virtually around-the-clock.  These incremental requests for service by extra- large energy users far exceed available generation and transmission resource capacity in the Southwest  region for the foreseeable future.  APS is exploring available options for securing sufficient electric  generation and transmission to meet these projections of future customer needs; however, there are  difficulties in properly forecasting the demands of these extra-large customers due to factors such as"
"the  nascent nature of the industries (e.g., artificial intelligence) that these customers are supporting and the  multiple variables that impact their usage ramp-up and ultimate level of demand.  As data center and other  extra-large customer opportunities evolve and develop, we may also enter into arrangements with  customers and potential customers that require us to invest capital and assume credit risk related to such  developments and the related generation and transmission investments"
"before we receive any potential  return.  APS is implementing strategies to attempt to reduce this risk; however, the difficulty in forecasting  these demands and the additional risk of these arrangements could lead to stranded costs and other effects  that could have material adverse impacts on APS’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash  flows.   The operation of power generation facilities and transmission systems involves risks that could result in  reduced output or"
"unscheduled outages or could otherwise significantly impact APS’s results of  operations. The operation of power generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves certain risks,  including the risk of breakdown or failure of equipment, fuel interruption, and performance below expected  levels of output or efficiency.  Unscheduled outages, including extensions of scheduled outages due to  mechanical failures or other complications, occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of"
"APS’s  business.  Because our transmission facilities are interconnected with those of third parties, the operation of  our facilities could be adversely affected by unexpected or uncontrollable events occurring on the larger  transmission power grid, and the operation or failure of our facilities could adversely affect the operations  of others.  Concerns over the physical security of these assets could include damage to certain of our  Table of Contents 38  facilities due to vandalism or other"
"deliberate acts that could lead to outages or other adverse effects.  If  APS’s facilities operate below expectations, especially during its peak seasons, it may lose revenue or incur  additional expenses, including increased purchased power expenses.   Additionally, as APS’s transmission infrastructure ages and its transmission system needs grow to  support growth in our territory and in the Southwest, it will need to replace and expand certain portions of  its transmission infrastructure,"
"which requires significant investment of capital.  Risks related to the timely  completion of, and costs associated with, these projects may be exacerbated by a constrained supply chain  limiting the availability of necessary parts and materials as well as APS’s use, in some cases, of older,  obsolete, or unsupported equipment.  Certain replacements and expansions of the transmission  infrastructure will also require the acquisition or renewal of land leases, easements, or other rights-of-way"
"that may require approvals from landowners, including individuals, governmental agencies, and, at times,  tribal nations.  APS is unable to predict the outcomes of any pending or future required approvals,  including any related costs, which could be significant.  If APS is unable to successfully manage the  replacement and expansion of its transmission infrastructure, it could face increased equipment failures,  power quality challenges, reputational impact, and financial loss. The impact of"
"wildfires could negatively affect APS’s results of operations. Wildfires have the potential to affect communities within APS’s service territory and the  surrounding areas, as well as APS’s vast network of electric transmission and distribution lines and  facilities.  The potential likelihood and severity of wildfires has increased due to many of the same weather  and climate change impacts existing in Arizona as those that led to catastrophic wildfires in other states.   The continued expansion"
"of the wildland urban interface has also increased wildfire risk to surrounding  communities.  Extreme weather events such as severe storms and strong wind gusts may also increase the  likelihood of a wildfire in our service territory.  APS has a Comprehensive Wildfire Mitigation Plan  (“CWMP”) that employs various strategies designed to prevent, mitigate, and respond to wildfire risks.   APS’s CWMP includes vegetation management and clearing protocols, operational measures and a public  safety"
"power shut off program (“PSPS”) on certain feeders, among other practices.  However, APS’s fire  mitigation efforts may be insufficient to prevent wildfires in APS’s expansive service territory and  surrounding areas and could result in claims alleging damages due to the use, non-use, timing, or  effectiveness of such measures.  In addition, APS could be sued regardless of fault for damages incurred as  a result of wildfires and may not be able to recover all or a substantial portion of any such"
"damages or costs  from insurance or through rates.  In addition, we could also experience credit rating downgrades,  reputational harm, volatility in the market for our common stock, and significant financial distress upon the  occurrence of a wildfire event.  Furthermore, any damage caused to our assets, loss of service to our  customers, or liability imposed as a result of wildfires could negatively impact APS’s financial condition,  results of operations, or cash flows. The inability to"
"successfully develop, acquire or operate generation resources to meet future resource  needs and load forecasts in accordance with reliability requirements and other new or evolving  standards and regulations could adversely impact our business. Potential changes in regulatory standards, impacts of new and existing laws and regulations,  including environmental laws and regulations, and the need to obtain various regulatory approvals create  uncertainty surrounding our current and future"
"generation portfolio.  The current regulatory standards,  laws, and regulations create strategic challenges as to the appropriate generation portfolio and fuel  diversification mix.  In addition, APS is required by the ACC to meet certain energy resource portfolio  requirements, including those related to renewables development and energy efficiency measures, in  addition to specific competitive resource procurement requirements.  The development and operation of  any generation facility is also"
"subject to many risks, including those related to financing, siting, permitting,  new and evolving technology, extreme weather events, workforce issues, cybersecurity attacks, supply  Table of Contents 39  chain constraints for critical spare parts, and the construction of sufficient transmission capacity to support  these facilities among others.  APS needs to develop or acquire new generation facilities, potentially  modernize existing facilities, and/or contract for additional capacity in"
"order to meet future resource needs  and load forecasts.  APS’s inability to do so could have a material adverse impact on our business and  results of operations. In expressing concerns about the environmental and climate-related impacts from continued  extraction, transportation, delivery and combustion of fossil fuels, environmental advocacy groups and  other third parties have in recent years undertaken greater efforts to oppose the permitting, construction,  and operation of fossil fuel"
"infrastructure projects.  These efforts may increase in scope and frequency  depending on a number of variables, including the future course of Federal environmental regulation and  the increasing financial resources devoted to these opposition activities.  APS cannot predict the effect that  any such opposition may have on our ability to develop, construct, and operate fossil fuel infrastructure  projects in the future.   In January 2020, APS announced its goal to provide 100% clean, carbon-"
"free electricity by 2050  with an intermediate 2030 target of achieving a resource mix that is 65% clean energy, with 45% of the  generation portfolio coming from renewable energy.  APS’s ability to successfully execute its clean energy  commitment is dependent upon a number of external factors, some of which include supportive national  and state energy policies, a supportive regulatory environment, sales and customer growth, the  development, deployment and advancement of clean energy"
"technologies, adequate supply chain for  generation resources, and continued access to capital markets. The lack of access to sufficient supplies of water could have a material adverse impact on APS’s  business and results of operations. Assured supplies of water are important for APS’s generating plants.  Water in the southwestern  United States is limited, and various parties have made conflicting claims regarding the right to access and  use such limited supplies of water.  Both groundwater"
"and surface water in areas important to the operation  of APS’s generating plants have been and are the subject of inquiries, claims and legal proceedings.  In  addition, the region in which APS’s power plants are located suffers from prolonged drought conditions,  which could potentially affect the plants’ water supplies.  Climate change is also projected to exacerbate  such drought conditions.  In addition, Colorado River water supplies for Arizona are subject to a Tier 1  shortage"
"declaration, which substantially limits the quantity of water available for the state.  APS’s  inability to access sufficient supplies of water, along with that of its customers, could have a material  adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We are subject to cybersecurity risks and risks of unauthorized access to our systems that could  adversely affect our business and financial condition. We operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of"
"sophisticated  information technology systems and network infrastructure.  In the regular course of our business, we  handle a range of sensitive security, customer, and business systems information.  There appears to be an  increasing level of activity, sophistication, and maturity of threat actors, including from both nation-state  and non-nation state actors, that seek to exploit potential vulnerabilities in the electric utility industry and  wish to disrupt the U.S. bulk power system, our"
"information technology systems, generation (including our  Palo Verde nuclear facility), transmission and distribution facilities, and other infrastructure facilities and  systems and physical assets.  We have been and could be the target of attacks, and the aforementioned  systems are critical areas of cyber protection for us.  We rely extensively on IT systems, networks, and services, including internet sites, data hosting  and processing facilities, and other hardware, software and technical"
"applications and platforms.  Some of  these systems are managed, hosted, provided, or used by third parties to assist in conducting our business.   Table of Contents 40  Malicious actors may attack vendors to disrupt the services these vendors provide to us or to use those  vendors as a cyber conduit to attack us.  As more third parties are involved in the operation of our business,  there is a risk the confidentiality, integrity, privacy, or security of data held by, or accessible to, third"
"parties may be compromised. If a significant cybersecurity event or breach were to occur, we may not be able to fulfill critical  business functions and we could (i) experience property damage, disruptions to our business, theft of or  unauthorized access to customer, employee, financial or system operation information or other  information; (ii) experience loss of revenue or incur significant costs for repair, remediation and breach  notification, and increased capital and operating costs to"
"implement increased security measures; and (iii)  be subject to increased regulation, litigation and reputational damage.  If such disruptions or breaches are  not detected quickly, their effects could be compounded or could delay our response or the effectiveness of  our response and ability to limit our exposure to potential liability.  These types of events would also  require significant management attention and resources and could have a material adverse impact on our  financial condition,"
"results of operations, or cash flows. We develop and maintain systems and processes aimed at detecting and preventing information and  cybersecurity incidents which require significant investment, maintenance, and ongoing monitoring and  updating as technologies and regulatory requirements change.  These systems and processes may be  insufficient to mitigate the possibility of cybersecurity incidents, malicious social engineering, fraudulent  or other malicious activities, and human error or"
"malfeasance in the safeguarding of our data. We are subject to laws and rules issued by multiple government agencies concerning safeguarding  and maintaining the confidentiality of our security, customer information and business information.  One of  these agencies, NERC, has issued comprehensive regulations and standards surrounding the security of  bulk power systems and is continually in the process of developing updated and additional requirements  with which the utility industry must"
"comply.  The NRC also has issued regulations and standards related to  the protection of critical digital assets at commercial nuclear power plants.  The increasing promulgation of  NERC and NRC rules and standards will increase our compliance costs and our exposure to the potential  risk of violations of the standards.  Experiencing a cybersecurity incident could cause us to be non- compliant with applicable laws and regulations, such as those promulgated by NERC and the NRC,  privacy laws, or"
"contracts that require us to securely maintain confidential data, causing us to incur costs  related to legal claims or proceedings and regulatory fines or penalties. The risk of these system-related events and security breaches occurring continues to intensify.  We  have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, threats and attempted intrusions to our information  technology systems and we could experience such threats and attempted intrusions to our operational  control systems.  To"
"date, we do not believe we have experienced a material breach or disruption to our  network or information systems or our service operations.  We may not be able to anticipate and prevent all  cyberattacks or information security breaches, and our ongoing investments in security resources, talent,  and business practices may not be effective against all threat actors. We maintain cyber insurance to provide coverage for a portion of the losses and damages that may  result from a security breach"
"of our information technology systems, but such insurance is subject to a  number of exclusions and may not cover the total loss or damage caused by a breach.  Coverage for  cybersecurity events continues to evolve as the industry matures.  In the future, adequate insurance may not  be available at rates that we believe are reasonable, and the costs of responding to and recovering from a  cyber incident may not be covered by insurance or recoverable in rates. Table of Contents 41  There are"
"inherent risks in the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental,  health, fuel supply, spent fuel disposal, regulatory and financial risks and the risk of terrorist attack that  could adversely affect our business and financial condition. APS has an ownership interest in and operates on behalf of a group of participants, Palo Verde,  which is the largest nuclear electric generating facility in the western United States.  Palo Verde constitutes  approximately 18% of"
"APS’s owned and leased generation capacity.  Palo Verde is subject to  environmental, health and financial risks, such as the ability to obtain adequate supplies of nuclear fuel; the  ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel; the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning;  potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities; the costs of securing the facilities against  possible terrorist attacks; and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems."
"APS maintains  nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its financial exposure to  some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage.   APS may be required under federal law to pay up to $144.9 million (but not more than $21.6 million per  year) of liabilities arising out of a nuclear incident not only at Palo Verde, but at any other nuclear power  plant in the United States.  In addition, APS is subject"
"to retrospective premium adjustments under its  nuclear property insurance policies with Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (“NEIL”) for approximately  $23.1 million if NEIL’s losses in any policy year exceed accumulated funds and if the retrospective  premium assessment is declared by NEIL’s Board of Directors.  Although APS has no reason to anticipate  a serious nuclear incident at Palo Verde, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect  our results of operations and"
"financial condition.  A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the  world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit and  to promulgate new regulations that could require significant capital expenditures and/or increase operating  costs. Changes in technology could create challenges for APS’s existing business. Alternative energy technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption or emissions are  being developed and"
"commercialized, including renewable technologies such as photovoltaic (solar) cells,  customer-sited generation, energy storage (batteries) and efficiency technologies.  Advances in technology  and equipment/appliance efficiency could reduce the demand for supply from conventional generation,  including carbon-free nuclear generation, and increase the complexity of managing APS’s information  technology and power system operations, which could adversely affect APS’s business. Customer-sited"
"alternative energy technologies present challenges to APS’s operations due to  misalignment with APS’s existing operational needs.  When these resources lack “dispatchability” and  other elements of utility-side control, they are considered “unmanaged” resources.  The cumulative effect  of such unmanaged resources results in added complexity for APS’s system management. APS continues to pursue and implement advanced grid technologies, including transmission and  distribution system technologies"
"and digital meters enabling two-way communications between the utility  and its customers.  Many of the products and processes resulting from these and other alternative  technologies, including energy storage technologies, have not yet been widely used or tested on a long- term basis, and their use on large-scale systems is not as established or mature as APS’s existing  technologies and equipment.  The implementation of new and additional technologies adds complexity to  our information"
"technology and operational technology systems, which could require additional  infrastructure and resources.  APS’s strategy, including the timing of such strategy, in adopting new  technologies, such as artificial intelligence, could also adversely impact APS’s business.  For example, if  APS fails to strategically implement artificial intelligence, it could miss the opportunity for cost savings,  face increasing costs on legacy systems, insufficiently integrate internal and external data sets,"
"or invest in  low data quality, risk misusing artificial intelligence, impact employee satisfaction with its implementation  of or failure to implement artificial intelligence and other technologies.  Widespread installation and  Table of Contents 42  acceptance of new technologies could also enable the entry of new market participants, such as technology  companies, into the interface between APS and its customers and could have other unpredictable effects on  APS’s traditional business model."
"Deployment of renewable energy technologies is expected to continue across the western states and  result in a larger portion of the overall energy production coming from these sources.  These trends, which  have benefited from historical and continuing government support for certain technologies, have the  potential to put downward pressure on wholesale power prices throughout the western states which could  make APS’s existing generating facilities less economical and impact their operational"
"patterns and long- term viability.   We are subject to employee workforce factors that could adversely affect our business and financial  condition. Like many companies in the electric utility industry, our workforce is maturing, with  approximately 27.4% of employees eligible to retire by the end of 2029.  Although we have undertaken  efforts to recruit, train and develop new employees, we face increased competition for talent.  We are  subject to other employee workforce factors, such as the"
"availability and retention of qualified personnel  and the need to negotiate collective bargaining agreements with union employees.  These or other  employee workforce factors could negatively impact our business, financial condition, or results of  operations. FINANCIAL RISKS A downgrade of our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial  condition, and results of operations. Our current ratings are set forth in “Liquidity and Capital Resources — Credit Ratings”"
"in Item 7.   We cannot be sure that any of our current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a  rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances in the  future so warrant.  Any downgrade or withdrawal could adversely affect the market price of Pinnacle  West’s and APS’s securities, limit our access to capital and increase our borrowing costs, which would  adversely impact our financial results.  We could be"
"required to pay a higher interest rate for future  financings, and our potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease.  In addition, borrowing  costs under our existing credit facilities depend on our credit ratings.  A downgrade could also require us to  provide additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various  counterparties.  If our short-term ratings were to be lowered, it could severely limit access to the  commercial paper market."
"We note that the ratings from rating agencies are not recommendations to buy,  sell or hold our securities and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Investment performance, changing interest rates, new rules or regulations and other economic, social,  and political factors could decrease the value of our benefit plan assets, nuclear decommissioning trust  funds and other special use funds or increase the valuation of our related obligations, resulting in"
"significant additional funding requirements.  We are also subject to risks related to the provision of  employee healthcare benefits and healthcare reform legislation.  Any inability to fully recover these  costs in our utility rates would negatively impact our financial condition. We have significant pension plan and other postretirement benefits plan obligations to our  employees and retirees, and legal obligations to fund our pension trust and nuclear decommissioning trusts  for Palo Verde."
"We hold and invest substantial assets in these trusts that are designed to provide funds to  pay for certain of these obligations as they arise.  Declines in market values of the fixed income and equity  securities held in these trusts may increase our funding requirements for the related trusts.  Additionally,  the valuation of liabilities related to our pension plan and other postretirement benefit plans are impacted  by a discount rate, which is the interest rate used to discount future"
"pension and other postretirement  Table of Contents 43  benefit obligations.  Changes in interest rates impact the discount rate and valuation of the plan liabilities,  and may result in increases in pension and other postretirement benefit costs, cash contributions, regulatory  assets, and charges to OCI.  Changes in demographics, including increased number of retirements or  changes in life expectancy and changes in other actuarial assumptions, may also result in similar impacts.   The minimum"
"contributions required under these plans are impacted by federal legislation and related  regulations.  Increasing liabilities or otherwise increasing funding requirements under these plans, resulting  from adverse changes in legislation or otherwise, could result in significant cash funding obligations that  could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. We recover most of the pension and other postretirement benefit expense and all of the"
"currently  estimated nuclear decommissioning costs in our regulated rates.  Any inability to fully recover these costs  in a timely manner could have a material negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations,  or cash flows. Pending or future federal or state legislative or regulatory activity or court proceedings could  increase the costs of providing medical insurance for our employees and retirees.  Any potential changes  and resulting cost impacts cannot be determined with"
"certainty at this time. Our cash flow depends on the performance of APS and its ability to make distributions. We derive essentially all of our revenues and earnings from our wholly-owned subsidiary, APS.   Accordingly, our cash flow and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the  earnings and cash flows of APS and its distributions to us.  APS is a separate and distinct legal entity and  has no obligation to make distributions to us. APS’s financing agreements may"
"restrict its ability to pay dividends, make distributions or  otherwise transfer funds to us.  In addition, an ACC financing order requires APS to maintain a common  equity ratio of at least 40% and does not allow APS to pay common dividends if the payment would reduce  its common equity below that threshold.  The common equity ratio, as defined in the ACC order, is total  shareholder equity divided by the sum of total shareholder equity and long-term debt, including current  maturities of long-"
"term debt. We may not have adequate insurance coverage for liabilities.             The operation of power generation, transmission and distribution facilities involves hazardous  activities.  We may become exposed to significant liabilities for which we may not have adequate  insurance coverage or risk mitigation.  Additionally, through our captive insurance cell, we take certain  insurance risk on our business, such as certain wildfire coverage, excess property insurance, and excess"
"employment practice liability.  We maintain an amount of insurance protection that we believe is  customary, but there can be no assurance it will be sufficient or effective in light of all circumstances,  hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject.  Our insurance does not cover every potential risk  associated with our operations.  Adequate coverage at reasonable rates is not always obtainable.  We  cannot provide assurance that insurance coverage will continue to be available in the"
"amounts or on terms  similar to our current policies.  These issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, results or  operations, and financial condition.  Pinnacle West’s ability to meet its debt service obligations could be adversely affected because its debt  securities are structurally subordinated to the debt securities and other obligations of its subsidiaries. Because Pinnacle West is structured as a holding company, all existing and future debt and other  liabilities of"
"its subsidiaries will be effectively senior in right of payment to its own debt securities.  The  assets and cash flows of our subsidiaries will be available, in the first instance, to service their own debt  and other obligations.  Our ability to have the benefit of their cash flows, particularly in the case of any  Table of Contents 44  insolvency or financial distress affecting our subsidiaries, would arise only through our equity ownership  interests in our subsidiaries and only after their"
"creditors have been satisfied. The use of derivative contracts in the normal course of our business could result in financial losses that  negatively impact our results of operations. APS’s operations include managing market risks related to commodity prices.  APS is exposed to  the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of electricity, natural gas, and coal to  the extent that unhedged positions exist.  We have established procedures to manage risks associated with"
"these market fluctuations by utilizing various commodity derivatives, including exchange traded futures  and over-the-counter (“OTC”) forwards, options, and swaps.  As part of our overall risk management  program, we enter into derivative transactions to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and natural gas.   The changes in market value of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged  commodity.  To the extent that commodity markets are illiquid, we may not be able"
"to execute our risk  management strategies, which could result in greater unhedged positions than we would prefer at a given  time and financial losses that negatively impact our results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) contains  measures aimed at increasing the transparency and stability of the over-the-counter derivative markets and  preventing excessive speculation.  The Dodd-Frank Act could restrict, among other things, trading"
"positions in the energy futures markets, require different collateral or settlement positions, or increase  regulatory reporting over derivative positions.  Based on the provisions included in the Dodd-Frank Act  and the implementation of regulations, these changes could, among other things, impact our ability to  hedge commodity price and interest rate risk or increase the costs associated with our hedging programs. We are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance or nonpayment by"
"counterparties.  We  use a risk management process to assess and monitor the financial exposure of all counterparties.  Despite  the fact that the majority of APS’s trading counterparties are rated as investment grade by the rating  agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these companies could default, which could result in  a material adverse impact on our earnings for a given period. GENERAL RISKS Proposals to change policy in Arizona or other states made through ballot"
"initiatives or referenda may  increase the Company’s cost of operations or impact its business plans. In Arizona and other states, a person or organization may file a ballot initiative or referendum with  the Arizona Secretary of State or other applicable state agency and, if a sufficient number of verifiable  signatures are presented, the initiative or referendum may be placed on the ballot for the public to vote on  the matter.  Ballot initiatives and referenda may relate to any matter,"
"including policy and regulation  related to the electric industry, and may change statutes or the state constitution in ways that could impact  Arizona utility customers, the Arizona economy, and the Company.  Some ballot initiatives and referenda  are drafted in an unclear manner and their potential industry and economic impact can be subject to varied  and conflicting interpretations.  We may oppose certain initiatives or referenda (including those that could  result in negative impacts to our"
"customers, the state, or the Company) via the electoral process, litigation,  traditional legislative mechanisms, agency rulemaking or otherwise, which could result in significant costs  to the Company.  The passage of certain initiatives or referenda could result in laws and regulations that  impact our business plans and have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of  operations, or cash flows. Table of Contents 45  General economic conditions could materially affect our"
"business, financial condition, and results of  operations. General economic factors that are beyond the Company’s control impact the Company’s forecasts  and actual performance.  These factors include interest rates; recession; inflation; stagflation; deflation;  supply chain constraints; unemployment trends; sanctions, trade restrictions, military interventions and the  threat or possibility of war; terrorism or other global or national unrest; and political or financial instability.   In"
"particular, in recent years the United States’ economy experienced a substantial rise in the inflation rate  and more recently in 2025, the Trump administration has implemented tariffs and discussed additional  tariffs, which would further increase costs.  Additionally, supply chains have been impacted and could be  further impacted by inflation, tariffs, and other sociopolitical factors, resulting in equipment delays and  increased costs.  A failure to recover these potential increased costs"
"through our rates could have a material  adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to  factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts, and  investors; •"
"changes in expectations as to future financial performance, including financial estimates by  securities analysts and investors; • developments generally affecting industries in which we operate; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint marketing  relationships, joint ventures, or capital commitments; • announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; • favorable or adverse regulatory or legislative developments; • our"
"dividend policy; • change in our management; • future sales by the Company of equity or equity-linked securities; and • general domestic and international economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to  the operating performance of a particular company.  These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect  the market price of our common stock. Financial market disruptions or new rules or regulations may increase our"
"financing costs or limit our  access to various financial markets, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to  implement our financial strategy. Pinnacle West and APS rely on access to credit markets as a significant source of liquidity and the  capital markets for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flow from our operations.  We believe that we  will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets.  However, certain market disruptions or revisions  to rules or"
"regulations may cause our cost of borrowing to increase generally, and/or otherwise adversely  affect our ability to access these financial markets. Table of Contents 46  In addition, the credit commitments of our lenders under our bank facilities may not be satisfied or  continued beyond current commitment periods for a variety of reasons, including new rules and  regulations, changes to the internal policies of our lenders, periods of financial distress or liquidity issues  affecting our"
"lenders or financial markets, which could materially adversely affect the adequacy of our  liquidity sources and/or the cost of maintaining these sources. Changes in economic conditions, monetary policy, fiscal policy, financial regulation, rating agency  treatment and/or other factors could result in higher interest rates, which would increase interest expense  on our existing variable rate debt and new debt we expect to issue in the future, and thus increase the cost  and/or reduce the amount"
"of funds available to us for our current plans. Additionally, an increase in our leverage, whether as a result of these factors or otherwise, could  adversely affect us by: • causing a downgrade of our credit ratings; • increasing the cost of future debt financing and refinancing; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; and • requiring us to dedicate an increased portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on  our debt, which would reduce funds"
"available to us for operations, future investment in our  business or other purposes. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and of Arizona law make it difficult for  shareholders to change the composition of our board and may discourage takeover attempts. These provisions, which could preclude our shareholders from receiving a change of control  premium, include the following: • restrictions on our ability to engage in a wide range of “business combination” transactions"
"with an “interested shareholder” (generally, any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of  our outstanding voting power, or any of our affiliates or associates who beneficially owned  10% or more of our outstanding voting power at any time during the prior three years) or any  affiliate or associate of an interested shareholder, unless specific conditions are met; • anti-greenmail provisions of Arizona law and our bylaws that prohibit us from purchasing  shares of our voting stock from"
"beneficial owners of more than 5% of our outstanding shares  unless specified conditions are satisfied; • the ability of the Board of Directors to increase the size of and fill vacancies on the Board of  Directors, whether resulting from such increase, or from death, resignation, disqualification or  otherwise;  • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue additional shares of common stock and shares of  preferred stock and to determine the price and, with respect to preferred stock, the"
"other terms,  including preferences and voting rights, of those shares without shareholder approval;  • restrictions that limit the rights of our shareholders to call a special meeting of shareholders;  and • restrictions regarding the rights of our shareholders to nominate directors or to submit  proposals to be considered at shareholder meetings. While these provisions may have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of us  to negotiate with our Board of Directors, they"
"could enable the Board of Directors to hinder or frustrate a  Table of Contents 47  transaction that some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in  that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. ITEM 1B.  UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS   Neither Pinnacle West nor APS has received written comments regarding its periodic or current  reports from the SEC staff that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of"
"its 2024 fiscal year and  that remain unresolved. ITEM 1C.  CYBERSECURITY The Company prioritizes and maintains a high level of commitment to responsible and secure  cybersecurity practices given the critical nature of its services and the potential consequences of a  successful cyber-attack on the Company and the electric grid.  A successful cyber-attack could have far- reaching consequences, from compromising the integrity of sensitive data to disrupting power supply.  To  that end, the"
"Company implements a robust risk management, strategy, and governance regime aimed at  ensuring effective controls are in place to identify, mitigate, remediate, and communicate cyber threats at  appropriate levels within the organization.   APS’s cybersecurity group (the “Cybersecurity Group”) is comprised of cybersecurity analysts,  engineers, architects, and others, led by the Director of Cybersecurity, who reports to APS’s Vice  President, Operations Support.  The Director of Cybersecurity"
"has more than twenty years of experience in  information technology and cybersecurity roles, with more than ten of those years at the Company.  The  Director of Cybersecurity also holds cybersecurity certifications from multiple certifying bodies and is  active in utility cybersecurity professional organizations.  The Cybersecurity Group has day-to-day  responsibility for safeguarding the Company’s critical assets and assessing, identifying, and managing  material risks from cybersecurity"
"threats.   In fulfilling its responsibility, the Cybersecurity Group manages formal documented internal  processes such as risk management and vulnerability scanning, as well as other processes, such as  assessing threat intelligence, that include outside partners.  Intelligence sharing comes from industry  sources such as the Electricity Information Sharing and Analysis Center, government sources, as well as  commercially purchased information sources.  The Cybersecurity Group also engages"
"third parties for  assessments and audits of its systems periodically and as needed.  Such assessments and audits may  include, among other things, pre-production evaluation of technologies, overall program assessments, and  compliance program assessments including audits by our regulators.   Depending on the products and services provided and the potential for data exchange and  technology risk, we may require vendors and service providers to pass APS’s vendor risk management  program, which"
"sets forth security and data protection requirements, as a condition to doing or continuing  to do business with us.  For contracts with vendors that will handle or have access to certain sensitive data,  APS requires contractual provisions setting forth cybersecurity controls, vulnerability management, secure  development practices, and other security and data protection requirements.  A subset of vendors that meet  a predetermined risk profile due to strategic relationships, technology risk,"
"or other factors is continually  monitored by a third-party risk management service, and the Company annually reviews independent  assessments of these vendors. The Cybersecurity Group also has documented processes for identifying, responding to, and  internally escalating cybersecurity incidents to management and the Board of Directors.  Once an incident  meets certain criteria, the Company’s Cybersecurity Incident Command or, in the most severe cases that  Table of Contents 48  impact the"
"entire Company, the Corporate Emergency Operations Center is activated and formal response  procedures are followed to address the incident.  The Cybersecurity Group has a formal incident response  plan that details response and escalation procedures, including activation of a Cybersecurity Disclosure  Committee, consisting of the Chief Financial Officer and the General Counsel, to assess an incident’s  materiality with input as needed from the Director of Cybersecurity, Chief Accounting"
"Officer, Chief  Information Officer, and others, including outside advisors.   Cybersecurity risk management has been integrated into the Company’s overall enterprise risk  management program (the “Enterprise Risk Management Program”) through policies and processes that  implement a risk management framework designed to identify, manage, and monitor business unit risks  throughout the organization.  The Enterprise Risk Management Program is overseen by an executive  committee (the “Executive"
"Risk Committee”), which meets at least quarterly and is comprised of members  holding executive leadership positions in the Company, including the Chairman and Chief Executive  Officer, President, and other Executive and Senior Vice Presidents, and is chaired and sponsored by the  Chief Financial Officer.  Every year, as a part of the Enterprise Risk Management Program, risks affecting  the Company are identified.  For 2024, cybersecurity was identified as a risk.  The applicable subject  matter"
"experts brief the Company’s Board of Directors on the status of all top enterprise risks at least once  per year.  Finally, the Nuclear and Operating Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors provides  ultimate oversight of cybersecurity risk and also receives briefings at least twice per year from the  Cybersecurity Group, and notable audit findings relating to cybersecurity are aggregated and provided to  the Board of Directors’ Audit Committee. To date, we do not believe there have been"
"risks from cybersecurity threats, including as a result of  any previous cybersecurity incidents, that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially  affect Pinnacle West or APS.  However, there is no assurance that will continue to be the case.  If a  significant cybersecurity event or incident were to occur, our ability to fulfill our critical business functions  and our business strategy, results of operations, and financial condition could all be materially impacted.   See"
"the risk factor entitled, “We are subject to cybersecurity risks and risks of unauthorized access to our  systems that could adversely affect our business and financial condition” in Item 1A—Risk Factors for  more information. Table of Contents 49  ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES Generation Facilities APS’s portfolio of owned generating facilities as of December 31, 2024 is provided in the table  below: Name No. of Units % Owned (a) Principal Fuels Used Primary Dispatch Type Owned Capacity (MW) Nuclear:"
"Palo Verde (b) 3  29.1 % Uranium Base Load   1,146  Total Nuclear           1,146  Steam:           Four Corners 4, 5 (c) 2  63 % Coal Base Load   970  Cholla 1,3  2   Coal Base Load   380  Total Steam           1,350  Combined Cycle:           Redhawk 2   Gas Load Following   1,136  West Phoenix 5   Gas Load Following   874  Total Combined Cycle           2,010  Combustion Turbine:           Ocotillo 7   Gas Peaking   630  Saguaro 3   Gas Peaking   189  Douglas 1   Oil Peaking   18  Sundance 10"
"Gas Peaking   430  West Phoenix 2   Gas Peaking   114  Yucca 1, 2, 3 3   Gas Peaking   93  Yucca 4 1   Oil Peaking   54  Yucca 5, 6 2   Gas Peaking   90  Total Combustion Turbine           1,618  Solar: (d)           Cotton Center 1   Solar As Available   17  Hyder I 1   Solar As Available   17  Paloma 1   Solar As Available   17  Chino Valley 1   Solar As Available   20  Gila Bend 1 Solar As Available   36  Hyder II 1   Solar As Available   14  Foothills 1   Solar As Available   38  Luke AFB 1"
"Solar As Available   11  Desert Star 1 Solar As Available   10  Red Rock 1 Solar As Available   44  Agave Solar 1 Solar As Available   150  APS Owned Distributed Energy     Solar As Available   38  Multiple facilities     Solar As Available   4  Total Solar           416  Total Capacity           6,540  Table of Contents 50  (a) 100% unless otherwise noted. (b) APS’s 29.1% ownership in Palo Verde includes leased interests and is the largest capacity interest of all the  participants.  See"
"“Business of Arizona Public Service Company — Energy Sources and Resource Planning  — Generation Facilities — Nuclear” in Item 1 for details regarding leased interests in Palo Verde.  The other  participants are Salt River Project, SCE, El Paso Electric Company, Public Service Company of New Mexico,  Southern California Public Power Authority, and Los Angeles Department of Water and Power.  (c) The other participants are Salt River Project (10%), Public Service Company of New Mexico (13%),"
"Tucson  Electric Power Company (7%) and NTEC (7%).  The plant is operated by APS.  (d) See “Business of Arizona Public Service Company — Energy Sources and Resource Planning — Energy  Storage” above for details related to APS’s energy storage facilities and agreements. See “Business of Arizona Public Service Company — Environmental Matters” in Item 1 with  respect to matters having a possible impact on the operation of certain of APS’s generating facilities.   See “Business of Arizona Public"
"Service Company” in Item 1 for a map detailing the location of  APS’s major power plants and principal transmission lines.   Transmission and Distribution Facilities     Current Facilities.  As of January 24, 2025, APS’s transmission facilities consist of approximately  5,817 pole miles of overhead lines and approximately 86 miles of underground lines, 5,757 miles of which  are located in Arizona.  APS’s distribution facilities consist of approximately 11,317 miles of overhead  lines and"
"approximately 24,031 miles of underground primary cable (20,893 when excluding abandoned  conductor), all of which are located in Arizona.  APS also owns and maintains 485 substations, including  both transmission and distribution yards.  APS shares ownership of some of its transmission facilities with  other companies.   The following table shows APS’s jointly-owned interests in those transmission facilities recorded  on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2024:    Percent Owned"
"(Weighted- Average) Arizona Nuclear Power Project 500kV System  33.3 % Navajo Southern System  24.7 % Palo Verde — Yuma 500kV System  25.5 % Four Corners Switchyards  58.0 % Phoenix — Mead System  17.1 % Palo Verde — Rudd 500kV System  50.0 % Morgan — Pinnacle Peak System  63.2 % Round Valley System  50.0 % Palo Verde — Morgan System  87.5 % Hassayampa — North Gila System  80.0 % Cholla 500kV Switchyard  85.7 % Saguaro 500kV Switchyard  60.0 % Kyrene — Knox System  50.0 % Agua Fria Switchyard"
"10.0 %   Expansion.  Each year, APS prepares and files with the ACC a Ten-Year Transmission Plan.  In  APS’s 2025 Ten-Year Plan, APS projects it will develop 184 miles of new transmission lines over the next  10 years.  Additionally, APS plans to upgrade 687 miles of existing transmission lines over the same  Table of Contents 51  horizon.  The 2025 Ten-Year Plan includes a 28-mile 500kV line from the Jojoba substation to the Rudd  substation.  The purpose of this 500kV line project is to bring"
"in a new source to the west and southwest  parts of the Phoenix metropolitan area which is experiencing rapid economic development.  This new  source will provide customers in the area greater access to a diverse mix of resources from around the  region.  Additionally, the 2025 Ten-Year Plan includes the rebuild of both Four Corners to Pinnacle Peak  345kV lines which span 289 miles each.  This rebuild will replace aging towers to ensure continued  reliability and safety, increase important"
"capability to the Metro Phoenix area, and improve access to a  diverse mix of resources from the Four Corners region throughout the Southwest.  The 2025 Ten-Year Plan  includes numerous projects with the purpose to interconnect new renewable energy resources to the  transmission system. Plant and Transmission Line Leases and Rights-of-Way on Indian Lands   The Navajo Plant and Four Corners are located on land held under leases from the Navajo Nation  and also under rights-of-way from the federal"
"government.  The Navajo Plant ceased operations in  November 2019.  The co-owners and the Navajo Nation executed a lease extension on November 29, 2017,  that allows for decommissioning activities to begin after the plant ceased operations.  APS, on behalf of the Four Corners participants, negotiated amendments to the Four Corners  facility lease with the Navajo Nation, which extends the Four Corners leasehold interest from 2016 to  2041.  See “Business of Arizona Public Service Company — Energy"
"Sources and Resource Planning —  Generation Facilities — Coal-Fueled Generating Facilities — Four Corners” in Item 1 for additional  information about the Four Corners right-of-way and lease matters.    Certain portions of our transmission lines are located on Indian lands pursuant to rights-of-way that  are effective for specified periods.  Some of these rights-of-way have expired and our renewal applications  have not yet been acted upon by the appropriate Indian tribes or federal agencies."
"Other rights expire at  various times in the future and renewal action by the applicable tribe or federal agencies will be required at  that time.  In recent negotiations, certain of the affected Indian tribes have required payments substantially  in excess of amounts that we have paid in the past for such rights-of-way.  The ultimate cost of renewal of  certain of the rights-of-way for our transmission lines is therefore uncertain. ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   See “Business of Arizona Public"
"Service Company — Environmental Matters” in Item 1 with  regard to pending or threatened litigation and other disputes. See Note 3 for ACC and FERC-related matters. See Note 10 for information regarding environmental matters, Superfund–related matters and other  disputes.  ITEM 4.  MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES   Not applicable. Table of Contents 52  INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS Pinnacle West’s executive officers are elected no less often than annually and may be removed by  the Board of"
"Directors, or in certain cases also by the Human Resources Committee, at any time.  The  executive officers, their ages at February 25, 2025, current positions and principal occupations for the past  five years are as follows: Name Age Position Period Jeffrey B. Guldner (a) 59 Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Pinnacle  West 2019-Present Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of APS 2022-Present Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President"
"of APS 2021-2022 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of APS 2020-2021 President of APS 2018-2020 Executive Vice President, Public Policy of Pinnacle West 2017-2019 Elizabeth A. Blankenship 53 Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Pinnacle West  and APS 2019-Present General Manager, Accounting Operations of APS  2019-2019 Director, Accounting Operations of APS 2014-2019 Andrew D. Cooper 46 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Pinnacle West and"
"APS 2022-Present Vice President and Treasurer of Pinnacle West and APS 2020-2022 Director, Corporate Finance of Consolidated Edison Company of New  York, Inc. 2017-2020 Jose L. Esparza 50 Senior Vice President, Public Policy of APS 2022-Present Vice President, Regulatory of APS 2022 Officer and Senior Vice President, Customer Engagement and Information  Technology of Southwest Gas 2019-2021 Vice President, Customer Engagement of Southwest Gas 2012-2019 Theodore N. Geisler (a) 46 President of"
"APS, Director on the Pinnacle West and APS Boards of  Directors 2024-Present President of APS 2022-Present Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Pinnacle West and  APS 2020-2022 Vice President and Chief Information Officer of APS 2018-2020 Adam C. Heflin 61 Executive Vice President and Chief Nuclear Officer, PVGS, of APS 2022-Present Chief Executive Officer of Wolf Creek Nuclear Operating Corporation 2014-2019 Paul J. Mountain 47 Vice President, Finance and Planning of Pinnacle"
"West and APS 2024-Present Vice President, Finance and Treasurer of Pinnacle West and APS 2022-2024 Vice President, Finance and Planning of Pinnacle West and APS 2020-2022 General Manager, Finance of Pinnacle West 2017-2020 Robert E. Smith 55 Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Chief Development  Officer of Pinnacle West and APS 2025-Present Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Development  Officer of Pinnacle West and APS 2021-2025 Senior Vice President and General"
"Counsel of Pinnacle West and APS 2018-2021 Jacob Tetlow 52 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of APS 2024-Present Executive Vice President, Operations of APS 2021-2024 Senior Vice President, Non-Nuclear Operations of APS 2020-2021 Vice President, Transmission and Distributions Operations of APS 2017-2020 Table of Contents  53  (a)  On December 12, 2024, Pinnacle West announced that Jeffrey B. Guldner will retire from his position as  Chairman of the Board, President, Chief"
"Executive Officer and member of the Board of Directors of Pinnacle  West and Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and member of the Board of Directors of APS,  effective April 1, 2025.  On April 1, 2025, Theodore N. Geisler will replace Mr. Guldner as Chairman of the  Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer of Pinnacle West and Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive  Officer of APS.  He will continue to serve as President of APS and as a director on the Pinnacle West and APS"
"Boards of Directors. Table of Contents  54  PART II  ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS’ COMMON EQUITY, RELATED  STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Pinnacle West’s common stock is publicly held and is traded on the New York Stock Exchange  under stock symbol PNW.  At the close of business on February 20, 2025, Pinnacle West’s common stock  was held of record by approximately 13,686 shareholders. APS’s common stock is wholly-owned by Pinnacle West and is not listed for"
"trading on any stock  exchange.  The sole holder of APS’s common stock, Pinnacle West, is entitled to dividends when and as  declared out of legally available funds.  At December 31, 2024, APS did not have any outstanding  preferred stock. Table of Contents  55  Stock Performance Chart This graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on Pinnacle West’s common stock  during the five years ended December 31, 2024, to the cumulative total returns on the S&P 500 Index and  the Edison"
"Electric Index.  The comparison assumes that $100 was invested on December 31, 2019, in  Pinnacle West’s common stock and in each of the indices shown and that all of the dividends were  reinvested. Year Ended December 31, Company/Index 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Pinnacle West Common Stock $100 $92 $85 $96 $95 $117 Edison Electric Institute Index $100 $99 $116 $117 $107 $127 S&P 500 Index $100 $118 $152 $125 $157 $197 ITEM 6.  [RESERVED] Table of Contents  56  ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION"
"AND ANALYSIS  OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS INTRODUCTION   The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Pinnacle West’s Consolidated Financial Statements and APS’s Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes that appear in  Item 8 of this report.  This discussion provides a comparison of the 2024 results with 2023 results.  For the  discussion of 2023 compared to 2022, see Part II. Item 7.  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of  Financial Condition"
"and Results of Operations of Pinnacle West Capital Corporation’s Annual Report on  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, which specific discussion is incorporated herein by  reference.  For information on factors that may cause our actual future results to differ from those we  currently seek or anticipate, see “Forward-Looking Statements” at the front of this report and “Risk  Factors” in Item 1A. OVERVIEW   Business Overview  Pinnacle West is an investor-owned electric utility"
"holding company based in Phoenix, Arizona  with consolidated assets of approximately $26 billion.  Since 1886, Pinnacle West and our affiliates have  provided energy and energy-related products to people and businesses throughout Arizona.  Pinnacle West derives essentially all of our revenues and earnings from our principal subsidiary,  APS.  APS is Arizona’s largest and longest-serving electric company that generates safe, affordable and  reliable electricity for approximately 1.4 million"
"retail customers in 11 of Arizona’s 15 counties.  APS is  also the operator and co-owner of Palo Verde — a primary source of electricity for the southwestern  United States.    Strategic Overview  Our strategy is to create a sustainable energy future for Arizona that delivers shareholder value and  shared value by serving our customers with reliable, affordable, and clean energy. Customer-Focused APS’s focus remains on its customers and the communities it serves.  Accordingly, it is APS’s goal"
"to achieve an industry-leading, best-in-class customer experience.  This multi-year objective includes  incrementally improving APS’s J.D. Power (“JDP”) residential and business customer satisfaction ratings  from the fourth to the top of second quartile for its customers.  For 2024, APS ranked at the top of the  second quartile for large investor-owned utilities for both business and residential customers, with the  residential results being APS’s highest rank and placement since 2016. In"
"furtherance of a customer-centric culture, APS employees have delivered an enhanced customer  experience in recent years through a number of past and ongoing initiatives, such as improving the ease-of- use of APS’s automated phone system, improving the speed of answering customer calls, advancing phone  advisor soft skill development through updated training curriculum, and adding 1,100-plus in-person  payment locations, as well as introducing new customer payment channels.  Recently, APS"
"redesigned its  customer bills with the aim of increasing personalization and helping customers better understand their  Table of Contents 57  energy use and find ways to save.  APS also implemented numerous enhancements to its website, including  improving page-loading speeds, adding user-friendly dashboards, and making content more simple,  relevant, and useful.  APS enhanced other customer touchpoints, such as communications throughout  outages and the online outage center in addition to"
"continuing to communicate with customers in their  preferred channels about topics that matter most to them, such as reliability, energy-efficiency, financial  assistance, the environment, and programs that enable them to design their own personalized energy  experience.  Finally, APS continues to focus on employee learning, training, tools, and resources to ensure  all employees understand their role in APS customers’ experiences. Additionally, APS has implemented a variety of financial"
"assistance programs to support customers  struggling to pay their energy bills.  Among these assistance programs are discounts for qualified limited- income customers, including a new tier with larger discounts for APS’s lowest income customers added in  the second quarter of 2024 and other non-income-based assistance programs, such as flexible payment  arrangements and emergency utility bill assistance.  To ensure our most vulnerable customers are  connected to these programs, we train and"
"partner with more than one hundred community action agencies  across our service territory. Reliable While our energy mix evolves, APS’s commitment to deliver reliable service to our customers  remains.  APS is managing through significant growth in the Phoenix metropolitan area while experiencing  supply chain issues similar to those experienced in other industries.   Planned investments will support operating and maintaining the grid, updating technology,  accommodating customer growth, and"
"enabling more renewable energy resources.  To prioritize reliability  and meet substantial growth in customer energy needs, APS has developed a future-focused, strategic  transmission plan (the “Ten-Year Transmission Plan”).  The Ten-Year Transmission Plan includes five  critical transmission projects that comprise the APS strategic transmission portfolio, which represent a  significant upgrade to our transmission system.  These five projects, along with other projects included in  the Ten-Year"
"Transmission Plan, will support growing energy needs, strengthen reliability, and allow for  the connection of new resources. Our advanced distribution management system allows operators to locate outages and control line  devices remotely and helps them coordinate more closely with field crews to safely maintain an  increasingly dynamic grid.  The system will also integrate a new meter data management system that will  increase grid visibility and give customers access to more of their energy"
"usage data.  Wildfire safety remains a critical focus for APS and other utilities.  We have increased investment  in fire mitigation efforts to clear defensible space around our infrastructure, continue ongoing system  upgrades, build partnerships with government entities and first responders and educate customers and  communities.  We also increased spend on mitigating the risk associated with trees that could cause  hazards, resulting in more of these trees being removed before they could"
"cause outages or wildfires.   These programs contribute to customer reliability, responsible forest management and safe communities.   With recent wildfire events in Hawaii, California, and across North America, we have been devoting and  will continue to devote substantial efforts to analyzing and developing enhancements to our systems and  processes to mitigate fire risk within our service territory and communities, including by hardening our  infrastructure, deploying new technologies where"
"appropriate, increasing our awareness, implementing  operational changes, and enhancing our wildfire response capabilities.  APS completed implementation of  fire modelling software that we are utilizing to more surgically identify and calculate risk and target future  Table of Contents  58  system improvement investments such as fire-resistant pole wrapping, wood to steel pole conversions, and  additional remote-controllable field devices like reclosers and switches.  In 2024, APS began"
"installing a  system of artificial intelligence-based fire sensing cameras with the ability to detect and alert on fire  ignitions.  These alerts are sent both to APS and fire response dispatch centers to speed fire response in  APS’s service territory regardless of the cause of the fire.  APS also implemented a PSPS program on  certain feeders that began in the 2024 fire season, leveraging the additional real-time analysis provided by  the new modelling software, and has educated and is"
"continuing education outreach to customers and  communities that may potentially be impacted by the PSPS program.  APS continues to evaluate policy  and regulatory options, as well as insurance programs, to mitigate the impact of wildfire events. For example, on August 14, 2024, APS filed a request with the ACC for a deferral order that would  authorize APS to defer, for future recovery in rates, operations and maintenance expenses associated with  wildfire management, including increased"
"insurance costs.  APS cannot predict the outcome of this matter.   See Note 3 for more information.   Additionally, APS was selected by the DOE’s Grid Deployment Office (“GDO”) to receive up to  $70 million in federal money for fire mitigation and grid infrastructure projects.  This funding is part of the  GDO’s Grid Resilience and Innovation Partnership Program and is contingent on APS negotiating and  executing final grant agreements with GDO. Maintaining reliability and affordability for"
"customers during the clean energy transition is  fundamental to APS’s strategy.  Dispatchable natural gas generators provide energy during times when  intermittent resources, such as solar and wind, are insufficient to meet customer demand.  In addition to  the previously added natural gas units at the modernized Ocotillo Power Plant in 2019 and efficiency  improvements to gas units at the Redhawk, Sundance, and West Phoenix Power Plants in 2024, APS has  contracted for two simple cycle"
"combustion turbines (approximately 90 MW in total) at Sundance, which  are expected to be in service in 2026, and eight simple cycle combustion turbines (approximately 397 MW  in total) at Redhawk, which are expected to be in service in 2028.  APS continues to evaluate and pursue  options for reliably serving growing customer energy needs and demand. In October 2021, APS announced plans to evaluate regional market solutions as part of the Western  Markets Exploratory Group (“WMEG”).  As a member"
"of WMEG, APS explored the potential for a staged  approach to new market services, including day-ahead energy sales, transmission system expansion, and  other power supply and grid solutions consistent with existing regulations and known and expected market  design.  APS utilizes the work done by WMEG to help identify market solutions that can help achieve  carbon reduction goals while supporting reliable, affordable service for customers. APS went live with a new Energy Management System"
"(“EMS”) in April 2024.  APS expects the  new EMS to provide a better foundation which will improve future integration of the renewable and energy  storage assets into APS’s generation resource portfolio, allowing APS to maximize the flexibility of its  resources and fully engage in the Western Energy Imbalance Market (“WEIM”).  APS also believes it will  better position APS to participate in market opportunities that develop over the next decade. APS’s key elements to delivering reliable power"
"include resource and transmission planning,  sufficient reserve margins, partnering with customers to manage peak demand, fire mitigation, and  operational preparedness, among others.  Seasonal readiness procedures at APS include inspections to  ensure good material conditions and critical control system surveys.  APS also plans for the unexpected by  conducting emergency operations drills and coordinating with federal, state, and local agencies on fire and  emergency management. Table of"
"Contents  59  Affordable  APS continues to focus on mitigating the cost pressures related to inflation and other factors, such  as tariffs.  Overall inflation grew by 1.6% in Phoenix and 2.9% nationally over the twelve months ended  December 2024.  Although inflationary impacts to APS began to slow in 2024, APS is still managing the  impacts high inflation.  Additionally, the implementation of recent and future tariffs could further escalate  costs and introduce supply chain constraints. APS’s"
"customer affordability initiative includes internal opportunities, such as training and  mentoring employees on identifying efficiency opportunities; maintaining an inventory to take advantage  of lower pricing and avoid expediting fees; entering into long-term contracts to hedge against price  volatility, which has allowed APS to mitigate against procurement spend areas such as transformers; and  implementing automation technologies to enhance efficiencies and increase data-oriented decision"
"making. There are also external opportunities under APS’s customer affordability initiative, such as APS’s  participation in the WEIM.  WEIM continues to be a tool for creating savings for APS’s customers from  the real-time, voluntary market.  APS continues to expect that its participation in WEIM will lower its fuel  and purchased-power costs, improve situational awareness for system operations in the Western  Interconnection power grid, and improve integration of APS’s renewable resources."
"APS participated in  market design and tariff development of Markets+, a day-ahead and real-time market offering from  Southwest Power Pool (“SPP”).  The Markets+ tariff was filed with FERC on March 29, 2024 and was  approved on January 16, 2025.  APS announced a market decision to pursue participation in SPP  Markets+.  In addition, APS is participating in the Western Resource Adequacy Program administered by  Western Power Pool and is transitioning to full binding participation as early as"
"summer 2027.  These  regional efforts are driven by the objectives of reducing customer cost and improving reliability. In terms of generation affordability, every three years, APS performs a comprehensive study, called  an Integrated Resource Plan (“IRP”), to identify what resources will be necessary to safely and reliably  meet the demand and energy needs of its customers over the next 15 years.  In November 2023, APS  released its latest IRP, which identified forecasted customer demand and"
"energy needs growing at an  unprecedented rate.  In developing the IRP, APS considered how factors such as forecasted economic  growth, impacts from weather, and new resource technology availability impact the amount and type of  resources required to reliably meet customer needs.  These factors, among others, were used to develop a  plan that identified a balanced mix of diverse energy generating resources to reliably serve customers’  future energy needs in the most affordable and sustainable"
"manner possible.  To help ensure competitive  costs for resources procured by APS, APS regularly issues competitive bid solicitations through the  ASRFP process, with the most recent ASRFPs being issued in 2022, 2023, and 2024.  These ASRFPs are  open to bids for all resource types, including customer-scale (behind the meter) and utility-scale (in front of  the meter) resources.  Through the ASRFP process, APS has found that clean resources like wind, solar,  and energy storage technology, are"
"important elements of a least cost portfolio.  During the clean energy  transition, dispatchable resources will play a vital role in maintaining grid reliability by serving as a back- up to intermittent energy resources when output is insufficient to meet customer needs.  Over the long  term, each resource in a balanced and diverse portfolio is expected to provide complementary value and  contribute to sustained delivery of reliable electric service.   In addition to managing the cost of"
"electricity generation, APS has continued building upon  existing cost management efforts, including a customer affordability initiative launched in 2019.  The  initiative was implemented company-wide to thoughtfully and deliberately assess our business processes  Table of Contents  60  and organizational approaches to completing high-value work and achieving internal efficiencies.  APS  continues to drive this initiative by identifying opportunities to streamline its business processes,"
"mitigate  cost increases, increase employee retention, and improve customer satisfaction. Clean Energy Commitment We are committed to doing our part to build a clean and carbon-free future.  As Arizona stewards,  we do what is right for the people and prosperity of Arizona.  Our vision is to create a sustainable energy  future for Arizona by providing reliable, affordable, and clean energy to our customers.  We can  accomplish our vision by collaborating with customers, communities, employees,"
"policymakers,  shareholders, and other stakeholders.  Our clean energy commitment is based on sound science and  supports continued growth and economic development while maintaining reliability and affordable prices  for APS’s customers. APS’s clean energy commitment consists of three parts:  • A 2050 goal to provide 100% clean, carbon-free electricity; • A 2030 target to achieve a resource mix that is 65% clean energy, with 45% of the generation  portfolio coming from renewable energy; and • A"
"plan to exit from coal-fired generation by 2031. APS’s ability to successfully execute its clean energy commitment depends upon a number of  important external factors, including a supportive regulatory environment, sales and customer growth,  development of clean energy technologies, and continued access to capital markets, among others. 2050 Goal: 100% Clean, Carbon-Free Electricity.  Achieving a fully clean, carbon-free energy  mix by 2050 is our aspiration.  Achieving this 2050 goal will"
"require, among other things, innovative  thinking, emergent clean energy and storage technologies, upgrades and expansions to the grid, and  supportive public policy. 2030 Goal: 65% Clean Energy.  APS has an energy mix that is already more than 50% clean and  plans to continue to add more renewables and energy storage.  By building on those plans, APS intends to  attain an energy mix that is 65% clean by 2030, with 45% of APS’s generation portfolio coming from  renewable energy.  “Clean” is"
"measured as percent of energy mix, which includes all carbon-free resources  like nuclear, renewables, and demand-side management.  “Renewable” energy includes generation  resources such as solar, wind, and biomass, and is measured in accordance with the ACC Renewable  Energy Standard as a percentage of retail sales.  This target will serve as a checkpoint for our resource  planning, investment strategy, and customer affordability efforts as APS moves toward a 100% clean,  carbon-free energy mix"
"by 2050. 2031 Goal: Exit Coal-Fired Generation.  The plan to exit coal-fired generation by 2031 will  require APS to stop relying on coal-generation at Four Corners.  APS has permanently retired more than  1,000 MW of coal-fired electric generating capacity.  These closures and other measures taken by APS  have resulted in annual carbon emissions that were 36% lower in 2023 compared to 2005.  In addition,  APS has committed to end the use of coal at its remaining Cholla units during 2025. In"
"June 2021, APS and the owners of Four Corners entered into an agreement that would allow  Four Corners to operate seasonally at the election of the owners as early as fall 2023, subject to the  Table of Contents  61  necessary governmental approvals and conditions associated with changes in plant ownership.  Under  seasonal operation, one generating unit would be shut down during seasons where electricity demand is  reduced, such as the winter and spring.  The other unit would remain online"
"year-round, subject to market  conditions as well as planned maintenance outages and unplanned outages.  As of the date of this report,  APS has elected not to begin seasonal operation due to market conditions. Renewables.  APS’s IRP identifies a diverse mix of resources adequate to maintain grid reliability  while serving increasing future customer energy needs.  Our IRP shows that renewable and clean resources  are an important part of a reliable, cost effective portfolio.  APS seeks market-"
"based pricing of procured  resources through regular solicitation of project bids using its competitive ASRFP process. APS has a diverse portfolio of existing and planned resources, including solar, wind, energy  storage, nuclear, geothermal, biomass and biogas, that supports our commitment to clean energy.  This  commitment is already strengthened by Palo Verde, one of the nation’s largest carbon-free, clean energy  resources, which provides the foundation for reliable and affordable service"
"for APS customers.  APS’s  longer-term clean energy strategy includes pursuing the right mix of purchased power contracts for new  resources, procurement of new resources to be owned by APS, and the ongoing development of distributed  energy resources.  Maintaining a balanced and diverse portfolio of resources will ensure continued reliable  service to our customers in the most affordable manner possible. APS uses competitive ASRFPs to pursue market-priced resources that meet its system needs"
"and  offer the best value for customers.  APS selects projects based on cost, ability to meet system requirements  and commercial viability, taking into consideration timing and likelihood of successful contracting and  development.  Under current market conditions, APS must aggressively contract for resources that can  withstand supply chain and other geopolitical pressures.  Guided by IRP-established timelines and  quantities, APS maintains a flexible approach that allows it to optimize system"
"reliability and customer  affordability through the ASRFP process.  Agreements for the development and completion of future  resources are subject to various conditions, including successful siting, permitting and interconnection to  the electric grid. On June 30, 2023, APS issued an ASRFP (the “2023 ASRFP”) pursuant to which APS procured  nearly 7,300 MW of new resources to be in service from 2026 to 2028. On November 20, 2024, APS issued an ASRFP (the “2024 ASRFP”) seeking 2,000 MW of"
"resources.  APS is seeking projects that can reach commercial operation beginning June 1, 2028 through  June 1, 2030 but will consider projects that may achieve commercial operation as early as 2026.   Additionally, APS is interested in projects that require longer planning, permitting, and construction and  can be commercially operational after June 1, 2030.  Bids for the 2024 ASRFP were due on February 5,  2025. Table of Contents  62  The following table summarizes the resources in APS’s"
"renewable energy portfolio that are in  operation, planned or under development as of the date of this report.  Agreements for the development and  completion of future resources are subject to various conditions, including successful siting, permitting,  and interconnection of the projects to the electric grid.  Net Capacity in Operation (MW) Net Capacity Planned / Under Development (MW) Total APS Owned: Solar 416   168  PPAs Renewables: Solar 585   3,321  Wind 853   500  Geothermal 10   —"
"Biomass 14   —  Biogas 3   —  Total PPAs   1,465    3,821  Total Distributed Energy: Solar (a)   1,727    63 (b) Total Renewable Portfolio   3,608    4,052  (a)  Includes rooftop solar facilities owned by third parties.  DG is produced in direct current and is  converted to alternating current for reporting purposes. (b)  Applications received by APS that are not yet installed and online. Energy Storage.  APS deploys a number of advanced technologies on its system, including energy  storage."
"Energy storage provides capacity, improves power quality, can be utilized for system regulation  and, in certain circumstances, be used to defer certain traditional infrastructure investments.  Energy  storage also aids in integrating renewable generation by storing excess energy when system demand is low  and renewable production is high and then releasing the stored energy during peak demand hours later in  the day and after sunset.  APS is utilizing grid-scale energy storage projects to meet"
"customer reliability  requirements, increase renewable utilization, and to further our understanding of how storage works with  other advanced technologies and the grid.   The following table summarizes the resources in APS’s energy storage portfolio that are in  operation, planned or under development as of the date of this report.  Agreements for the development and  completion of future resources are subject to various conditions. Net Capacity in  Operation (MW) Net Capacity Planned /  Under"
"Development (MW) APS Owned Energy Storage 201 (a) 150 PPAs Energy Storage 405   5,087  Customer-Sited Energy Storage 62 51 Total Energy Storage Portfolio 668   5,288  (a)  Includes 0.3 MW of APS-owned customer-sited energy storage. Palo Verde.  Palo Verde, one of the nation’s largest carbon-free, clean energy resources, will  continue to be a foundational part of APS’s resource portfolio.  Palo Verde is not just the cornerstone of  our current clean energy mix; it also is a significant provider"
"of clean energy to the southwestern United  States.  The plant is a critical asset to the Southwest, generating more than 32 million MWh annually –  Table of Contents  63  enough power for roughly 3.4 million households, or approximately 8.5 million people.  Its continued  operation is important to a carbon-free and clean energy future for Arizona and the region, as a reliable,  continuous, affordable resource and as a large contributor to the local economy. Developing Clean Energy Technologies"
"New Nuclear Generation APS, along with other Arizona electric utilities, is exploring new nuclear generation to provide  around-the-clock carbon-free energy to meet rising energy demands in Arizona.  APS has been monitoring  emerging nuclear technologies, such as small modular nuclear reactors (“SMRs”).  SMRs are typically  designed to generate 300 MW or less of energy per unit compared to, for example, the 1,400 MW per unit  generated at Palo Verde.  The utilities have applied for a grant from"
"the DOE to begin preliminary  exploration of a potential site for additional nuclear energy for Arizona.  The grant could support a three- year site selection process and possible preparation of an early site permit application to NRC.  Electric Vehicles  As a part of the statewide transportation electrification plan (“TE Plan”) adopted in 2021, the ACC  approved a target of 450,000 light-duty electric vehicles (“EVs”) in APS’s service territory by 2030.   APS’s Take Charge AZ (“TCAZ”) program"
"has helped to deploy Level 2 EV charging stations on  customer properties for fleet, public, and workplace EV charging.  As of December 31, 2024, APS has  installed 829 energized Level 2 charging ports at 197 customer locations.  Additionally, APS has energized  direct current fast charging stations that are owned and operated by APS at five locations in Arizona:  Sedona, Prescott, Globe, Show Low, and Payson.  Effective December 12, 2023, the TCAZ program was  discontinued by the ACC.  As part"
"of that decision, APS was permitted to complete certain projects that  were in process as of December 12, 2023. Additionally, as part of APS’s DSM Implementation Plan, APS launched the EV Charging  Demand Management Pilot to proactively address the growing electric demand from charging as EVs  become more widely adopted.  The EV programs in the DSM Implementation Plan include APS  SmartCharge (an EV data gathering program), Fleet Advisory Services, and a $100 rebate to home builders  for new"
"homes to be built EV-ready with 240V receptacle.  APS previously offered a $250 residential  rebate to customers that purchased a qualifying home Level 2 charger.  Effective December 12, 2023, APS  discontinued this rebate per the ACC decision.  See the discussion above.  APS filed its 2024 DSM Implementation Plan on November 30, 2023.  The 2024 DSM  Implementation Plan includes APS’s 2024 TE Plan and, among other things, proposes two new programs  that were initially proposed in the 2023 DSM"
"Implementation Plan: an expanded residential EV Managed  Charging program and a Commercial EV Make-Ready Program.  On April 26, 2024, APS filed an  amended 2024 DSM Implementation Plan.  The amended 2024 DSM Implementation Plan includes an  updated budget of $90.9 million to reflect removal of incentive funds for the Level 2 Smart Charger rebate  within the EV Charging Demand Management Pilot, an update on the performance incentive calculation,  and the withdrawal of tranches two and three of"
"the residential battery pilot.  The amended 2024 DSM Plan  is still pending ACC review and approval.  APS will not file a 2025 DSM Implementation Plan, pending  ACC review of the amended 2024 DSM Implementation Plan.  APS cannot predict the outcome of this  proceeding. Table of Contents  64  Carbon Capture Carbon Capture Utilization and Storage (“CCUS”) technologies can isolate CO2 and either  sequester it permanently in geologic formations or convert it for use in products.  Currently, almost"
"all  existing fossil fuel generators do not control carbon emissions the way they control emissions of other air  pollutants such as sulfur dioxide or oxides of nitrogen.  CCUS technologies are still in the demonstration  phase and while they show promise, they are still being tested in real-world conditions.  These technologies  could offer the potential to keep in operation existing generators that otherwise would need to be retired.   APS will continue to monitor this emerging technology."
"Sustainability Practices In 2020, in support of our clean energy commitment and the growing focus on sustainability within  our organization, we increased our focus on sustainability by dedicating a new Sustainability Department at  Pinnacle West responsible for integrating responsible business practices into the everyday work of the  Company. In 2024, the Sustainability Department engaged an external consultant and leveraged input from  employees, large customers, limited-income advocates,"
"economic development groups, tribes, nonprofits,  environmental non-governmental organizations, residential customers, and other stakeholders to identify  and assess the sustainability issues that matter most.  In total, 15 Priority Sustainability Issues (“PSIs”)  were identified and prioritized.  The top five issues that were prioritized by stakeholders are as follows:  energy affordability, electric reliability, clean energy and decarbonization, workforce development, and  climate resilience"
"and adaptation.  Understanding the sustainability priorities of internal and external  stakeholders can help companies improve performance, identify risks and opportunities, and refine  sustainability strategy.  Finally, the Company maintains an annual Corporate Responsibility Report on the Pinnacle West  website (www.pinnaclewest.com/corporate-responsibility).  The report provides information related to the  Company’s sustainability practices and performance.  The information on Pinnacle West’s"
"website,  including the Corporate Responsibility Report, is not incorporated by reference into or otherwise a part of  this report. Artificial Intelligence To address the rapid advancement of artificial intelligence technology risks and opportunities, APS  has developed a cross functional governance structure with leadership and experts from our information  technology, cybersecurity, human resources, ethics, supply chain, legal, and nuclear generation teams.   This cross functional structure"
"assesses the opportunities and risks in alignment with enterprise strategy to  ensure compliance with data security and reliability requirements as well as our Code of Ethical Conduct,  while observing market trends in this rapidly evolving area. Regulatory Overview APS expects to file an application with the ACC for its next general rate case mid-year 2025 and is  continuing to evaluate the timing of such filing. Table of Contents  65  2022 Retail Rate Case APS filed an application with the ACC"
"on October 28, 2022 (the “2022 Rate Case”) seeking an  increase in annual retail base rates. On January 25, 2024, an Administrative Law Judge issued a ROO in the 2022 Rate Case, as  corrected on February 6, 2024 (the “2022 Rate Case ROO”).  The 2022 Rate Case ROO recommended,  among other things, (i) a $523.1 million increase in the annual base rate revenue requirement, (ii) a 9.55%  return on equity, (iii) a 0.25% return on the increment of fair value rate base greater than original cost, (iv)"
"an effective fair value rate of return of 4.36%, (v) 12 months of post-test year plant and the inclusion of the  Four Corners Effluent Limitations Guideline (“ELG”) project, (vi) the approval of APS’s System  Reliability Benefit (“SRB”) proposal with certain procedural and other modifications, (vii) no additional  Coal Community Transition (“CCT”) funding, (viii) a 5.0% return on the prepaid pension asset and a  return of 5.35% on the OPEB liability, and (ix) no disallowances on APS’s coal"
"contracts.   The 2022 Rate Case ROO also recommended a number of changes to existing adjustors, including  (i) the approval of modified DSM performance incentives and the requested DSM transfer to base rates, (ii)  the retention of $1.9 million of Renewable Energy Adjustment Charge (“REAC”) in the adjustor rather  than base rates, (iii) a partial transfer of $27.1 million of LFCR funds to base rates, and (iv) the adoption of  an increase in the annual PSA cap to $0.006/kWh.   On February 22,"
"2024, the ACC approved a number of amendments to the 2022 Rate Case ROO  that resulted in, among other things, (i) an approximately $491.7 million increase in the annual base  revenue requirement, (ii) a 9.55% return on equity, (iii) a 0.25% return on the increment of fair value rate  base greater than original cost, (iv) an effective fair value rate of return of 4.39%, (v) a return set at the  Company’s weighted average cost of capital on the net prepaid pension asset and net other post-"
"employment benefit liability in rate base, (vi) an adjustment to generation maintenance and outage expense   to reflect a more reasonable level of test year costs, (vii) approval of the SRB mechanism with  modifications to customer notifications, procedural timelines and the inclusion of any qualifying  technology and fuel source bid received through an ASRFP, and (viii) recovery of all DSM costs through  the DSM Adjustment Charge (“DSMAC”) rather than through base rates. The ACC’s decision"
"results in an expected total net annual revenue increase for APS of  approximately $253.4 million and a roughly 8% increase to the typical residential customer’s bill.  The  ACC issued the final order for the 2022 Rate Case on March 5, 2024, with the new rates becoming  effective for all service rendered on or after March 8, 2024. Six intervenors and the Attorney General of Arizona requested rehearing on various issues included  in the ACC’s decision, such as the grid access charge (“GAC”) for"
"solar customers, the SRB, and CCT  funding.  On April 15, 2024, the ACC granted, in part, the rehearing applications of the Attorney General,  Arizona Solar Energy Industries Association, Solar Energy Industries Association, and Vote Solar  specifically to review whether the GAC rate is just and reasonable, including whether it should be higher or  lower, whether the GAC rate constitutes a discriminatory fee to solar customers, and whether omission of a  GAC charge is discriminatory to non-solar"
"customers.  All other applications for rehearing were denied.     A limited rehearing was held October 28 through November 1.  Following the limited rehearing, an  Administrative Law Judge issued a ROO (the “Limited Rehearing ROO”) on December 3, 2024.  The  Limited Rehearing ROO recommended affirming the GAC as just and reasonable and that the GAC is not  discriminatory to solar customers and the absence of a GAC is not discriminatory to non-solar customers.   On December 17, 2024, the ACC"
"approved the Limited Rehearing ROO with an amendment that requires  Table of Contents  66  APS in its next rate case to propose a revenue allocation based on a site-load cost of service study in order  to bring further parity in revenue collection between solar and non-solar customers.  SEIA, AriSEIA, Vote  Solar, the Arizona Attorney General, and two individual customers have filed requests for rehearing of the  Commission’s December 17, 2024 decision on the rehearing.  The Commission has taken"
"no action on  these requests.  In addition, each of these parties have subsequently filed notices of appeal to the Arizona  Court of Appeals seeking review of the Commission’s decisions regarding the GAC and on rehearing.   APS cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings. 2019 Retail Rate Case On October 31, 2019, APS filed an application with the ACC (the “2019 Rate Case”) for an annual  increase in retail base rates.  On August 2, 2021, an Administrative Law Judge issued a ROO in the 2019"
"Rate Case (the “2019 Rate Case ROO”) and issued corrections on September 10 and September 20, 2021.   Subsequently, the ACC approved an amended 2019 Rate Case ROO on November 2, 2021.  After the 2019 Rate Case decision, APS filed an application for rehearing of the 2019 Rate Case  and later filed a Notice of Direct Appeal by APS at the Arizona Court of Appeals, requesting review of  certain matters from the 2019 Rate Case decision.  The Arizona Court of Appeals affirmed in part and  reversed in"
"part the ACC’s decision in the 2019 Rate Case, remanding the issue to the ACC for further  proceedings.  On June 14, 2023, APS and the ACC Legal Division filed a joint resolution with the ACC to  allow recovery of $215.5 million in costs related to the installation of the Four Corners selective catalytic  reduction (“SCR”) project, a reversal of the 20 basis points reduction to APS’s return on equity from 8.9%  to 8.7% as a result of the 2019 Rate Case decision, and recovery of $59.6 million in"
"revenue lost by APS  between December 2021 and June 20, 2023.  The joint resolution provides for a new Court Resolution  Surcharge (“CRS”) mechanism, which is designed to recover the $59.6 million in revenue lost by APS  between December 2021 and June 20, 2023, and the prospective recovery of ongoing costs related to the  SCR investments and expense and the allowable return on equity difference in current base rates.  On    June 21, 2023, the ACC approved the joint resolution and proposals"
"therein for recovery through the CRS  mechanism, which became effective on July 1, 2023.  As of December 31, 2024, $26.2 million of the  $59.6 million of lost revenue has been recovered.  Finally, the CRS tariff has been updated to account for  changes to return on equity and depreciation and deferral adjustments approved in Decision No. 79293 in  the 2022 Rate Case. Regulatory Lag Docket On January 5, 2023, the ACC opened a new docket to explore the possibility of modifications to  the ACC’s"
"historical test year rules.  The ACC requested comments and held two workshops exploring  ways to reduce regulatory lag, including alternative ratemaking structures such as future test years, hybrid  test years, and formula rates.  On December 3, 2024, the ACC approved a policy statement regarding  formula rate plans.  The policy statement allows regulated utilities to propose formula rate plans in future  rate cases.  Proposed plans must be based on a historical test year, include an annual"
"update with a true-up  and an earnings test to ensure a utility earns within a 20 basis points band of its authorized return on equity.   Proposed plans should also include an annual meeting and challenge periods for stakeholder feedback.   Utilities that implement formula rates also must file a full rate case at least every five years unless an  alternate schedule is set by the ACC.  APS cannot predict the outcome of this matter. Table of Contents  67  Cholla On August 14, 2024, APS filed a"
"request with the ACC for a deferral order associated with  unrecovered book value and closure costs of the remaining Cholla units.  This order would authorize APS  to defer, for future recovery in rates, both the expenses necessary to close and decommission coal-fired  power plant infrastructure at Cholla, including legally required site environmental remediation, CCR  corrective actions, the closure of CCR management facilities, and any unrecovered plant investment and  operating costs incurred"
"through and after April 2025.  APS cannot predict the outcome of this matter. Fire Mitigation On August 14, 2024, APS filed a request with the ACC for a deferral order that would authorize  APS to defer, for future recovery in rates, operations and maintenance expenses associated with wildfire  management, including increased insurance costs.  APS cannot predict the outcome of this matter. See Note 3 for information regarding additional regulatory matters. Captive Insurance Cell  Pinnacle West"
"is the primary beneficiary of a protected cell captive insurance company.  The  Captive provides insurance coverage to Pinnacle West and our subsidiaries that supplements third-party  insurance policies.  The Captive insures Pinnacle West and its subsidiaries for terrorism coverage, excess  liability including certain wildfire coverage, excess property insurance, and excess employment practice  liability.  The Captive policies exclude nuclear liability at Palo Verde.  See Note 10.  The Captive"
"may hold  investment assets in cash, cash equivalents, and equity and fixed income instruments.  Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (“IRA”) significantly expands the availability of tax credits  for investments in clean energy generation technologies and energy storage.  Key provisions that are  relevant to APS’s clean energy commitment include (i) an extension of tax credits for solar and wind  generation, including a new option for solar investments to claim a"
"Production Tax Credit (“PTC”) in lieu  of the Investment Tax Credit (“ITC”) beginning in 2022; (ii) expansion of the ITC to cover stand-alone  energy storage technology beginning in 2023; (iii) introduction of technology neutral clean energy ITCs  and PTCs beginning in 2025; and (iv) introduction of a new PTC for nuclear energy produced by existing  nuclear energy plants, available from 2024 through 2032.  The Internal Revenue Service and U.S. Treasury  Department have issued preliminary"
"guidance related to various provisions of the IRA that have enabled  APS to claim credits related to its solar and energy storage investments.  The Company continues to await  regulations and other guidance, including with respect to the nuclear PTC, which will provide additional  details and clarifications regarding how the Company may be able to claim IRA tax credits.  See Note 4 for  more information.  The prospects for federal tax reform, including potential modification or repeal of the IRA"
"tax  provisions, have increased due to the results of the 2024 election.  Any such reform may impact the  availability of future potential tax benefits from the IRA and could impact the Company’s effective tax  rate, cash taxes paid and other financial results such as earnings per share, gross revenues, and cash flows.   We cannot predict the timing or extent of such tax-related developments which, absent appropriate  regulatory treatment, may have a negative impact on our financial results."
"Table of Contents  68  Financial Strength and Flexibility Pinnacle West and APS currently have ample borrowing capacity under their respective credit  facilities and may readily access these facilities ensuring adequate liquidity for each company.  Capital  expenditures will be funded with internally generated cash and external financings, which may include  issuances of long-term debt and Pinnacle West common stock. Other Subsidiaries PNW Power.  On August 4, 2023, Pinnacle West entered into a"
"purchase and sale agreement  pursuant to which we agreed to sell all of our equity interest in our wholly-owned subsidiary BCE to  Ameresco (the “BCE Sale”).  The transaction was accounted for as the sale of a business and closed in  multiple stages.  The final closing of the BCE Sale was completed on January 12, 2024.  See Note 20 for  additional details.  Certain investments and assets that BCE previously held, including the TransCanyon  joint venture and holdings in the two Tenaska wind farm"
"investments, were not included in the BCE Sale  and were instead transferred to PNW Power, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pinnacle West. PNW Power’s investments include TransCanyon, a 50/50 joint venture that was formed in 2014  with BHE U.S. Transmission LLC, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Energy Company.  TransCanyon is  pursuing independent electric transmission opportunities within the 11 U.S. states that comprise the  Western Interconnection, excluding opportunities related to"
"transmission service that would otherwise be  provided under the tariffs of the retail service territories of the venture partners’ utility affiliates.  The U.S.  Department of Energy’s Grid Deployment Office selected TransCanyon to enter into capacity contract  negotiations for up to 25% of the Cross-Tie 500-kilovolt transmission line (“Cross-Tie”) as part of the  Transmission Facilitation Program.  The agreement was executed on June 12, 2024.  The proposed Cross- Tie project includes a"
"214-mile transmission line connecting Utah and Nevada that is intended to help  improve grid reliability and relieve congestion on other transmission lines. PNW Power’s investments also include minority ownership positions in two wind farms operated  by Tenaska Energy, Inc. and Tenaska Energy Holdings, LLC, the 242 MW Clear Creek and the 250 MW  Nobles 2 wind farms.  Clear Creek achieved commercial operation in May 2020; however, in the fourth  quarter of 2022, PNW Power’s equity method"
"investment was fully impaired.  Nobles 2 achieved  commercial operation in December 2020.  Both wind farms deliver power under long-term PPAs.  PNW  Power indirectly owns 9.9% of Clear Creek and 5.1% of Nobles 2. El Dorado.  El Dorado is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pinnacle West.  El Dorado owns debt  investments and minority interests in several energy-related investments and Arizona community-based  ventures.  In particular, El Dorado has committed to the following: • $25 million investment"
"in the Energy Impact Partners fund, of which approximately $18.8  million has been funded as of December 31, 2024.  Energy Impact Partners is an organization  that focuses on fostering innovation and supporting the transformation of the utility industry.   • $25 million investment in AZ-VC (formerly invisionAZ Fund), of which approximately $11.8  million has been funded as of December 31, 2024.  AZ-VC is a fund focused on analyzing,  investing, managing, and otherwise dealing with investments in"
"privately-held early stage and  emerging growth technology companies and businesses primarily based in Arizona, or based in  Table of Contents  69  other jurisdictions and having existing or potential strategic or economic ties to companies or  other interests in Arizona.   • $7.5 million investment in Westly Seed Fund, of which approximately $1.2 million has been  funded as of December 31, 2024.  Westly Seed Fund is focused on supporting entrepreneurs  involved in the energy, mobility,"
"building, and industrial sectors. • Equity investment in SAI Advanced Power Solutions (“SAI”), a private corporation that  manufactures electrical switchgear equipment used by data centers.  El Dorado accounts for  this investment under the equity method, with a December 31, 2024 investment carrying value  of zero.  SAI has seen an increased demand for their customized switchgear products.  El  Dorado has no funding commitments to SAI. The remainder of these investment commitments will be"
"contributed by El Dorado as each  investment fund selects and makes investments. Key Financial Drivers   In addition to the continuing impact of the matters described above, many factors influence our  financial results and our future financial outlook, including those listed below.  We closely monitor these  factors to plan for the Company’s current needs, and to adjust our expectations, financial budgets and  forecasts appropriately.   Electric Operating Revenues.  For the years 2022 through"
"2024, retail electric revenues comprised  approximately 92% of our total operating revenues.  Our electric operating revenues are affected by  customer growth or decline, variations in weather from period to period, customer mix, average usage per  customer and the impacts of energy efficiency programs, distributed energy additions, electricity rates and  tariffs, the recovery of PSA deferrals and the operation of other recovery mechanisms.  These revenue  transactions are affected by the"
"availability of excess generation or other energy resources and wholesale  market conditions, including competition, demand, and prices.   Actual and Projected Customer and Sales Growth.  Retail customers in APS’s service territory  increased 2.1% for the year ended December 31, 2024, compared with the prior-year period.  For the three  years through 2024, APS’s customer growth averaged 2.1% per year.  We currently project annual  customer growth to be 1.5% to 2.5% for 2025 and the average"
"annual growth to be in the range of 1.5% to  2.5% through 2027 based on anticipated steady population growth in Arizona during that period. Retail electricity sales in kWh, adjusted to exclude the effects of weather variations, increased  5.7% for the year ended December 31, 2024, compared with the prior-year period.  While steady customer  growth was somewhat offset by weaker usage among residential customers, energy savings driven by  customer conservation, energy efficiency, and distributed"
"renewable generation initiatives, the main drivers  of positive sales for this period were continued strong sales to commercial and industrial customers and the  ramp-up of new data center and large manufacturing customers. For the three years through 2024, annual retail electricity sales growth averaged 3.2%, adjusted to  exclude the effects of weather variations.  Due to the expected growth of several large data centers and new  large manufacturing facilities, we currently project that annual"
"retail electricity sales in kWh will increase  in the range of 4.0% to 6.0% for 2025 and that average annual growth will be in the range of 4.0% to 6.0%  through 2027, including the effects of customer conservation, energy efficiency, and distributed renewable  Table of Contents  70  generation initiatives, but excluding the effects of weather variations.  These projected sales growth ranges  include the impacts of several large data centers and new large manufacturing facilities, which are"
"expected  to contribute to 2025 growth in the range of 3.0% to 5.0% and to average annual growth in the range of  3.0% to 5.0% through 2027.  Longer term, APS has been preparing for and can serve significant load growth from residential  and business customers.  On top of these existing growth trends, APS is also now receiving unprecedented  incremental requests for service from extra-large commercial energy users (over 25 MW) with very high  energy demands that persist virtually around-the-"
"clock.  These incremental requests for service by extra- large energy users far exceed available generation and transmission resource capacity in the Southwest  region for the foreseeable future.  In April 2023, APS notified prospective extra-large customers without  existing commitments from APS that it is not able to commit at this time to future extra-large projects of  over 25 MW.  Because of the high growth in demand for such projects, APS has developed a prioritization  queue that"
"identifies and prioritizes projects while maintaining system reliability and affordability for  existing APS customers.  APS is exploring available options for securing sufficient electric generation and  transmission to meet these projections of future customer needs. Actual sales growth, excluding weather-related variations, may differ from our projections as a  result of numerous factors, such as economic conditions, customer growth, usage patterns and energy  conservation, slower ramp-up of"
"and/or fewer data centers and large manufacturing facilities, slower than  expected commercial and industrial expansions, impacts of energy efficiency programs and growth in DG,  responses to retail price changes, changes in regulatory standards, and impacts of new and existing laws  and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations.  Based on past experience, a 1% variation  in our annual residential and small commercial and industrial kWh sales projections under normal business"
"conditions can result in increases or decreases in annual net income of approximately $24 million, and a  1% variation in our annual large commercial and industrial kWh sales projections under normal business  conditions can result in increases or decreases in annual net income of approximately $6 million. Weather.  In forecasting the retail sales growth numbers provided above, we assume normal  weather patterns based on historical data.  Our experience indicates that typical variations from"
"normal  weather can result in increases and decreases in annual net income of up to $20 million.  However, since  2020, extreme weather events, such as record-setting summer heat and decreased annual precipitation in  our service territory, have resulted in increases in annual net income that are more than historically typical,  on average.   Fuel and Purchased Power Costs.  Fuel and purchased power costs included on our Consolidated  Statements of Income are impacted by our electricity sales"
"volumes, existing contracts for purchased power  and generation fuel, our power plant performance, transmission availability or constraints, prevailing  market prices, new generating plants being placed in service in our market areas, changes in our generation  resource allocation, our hedging program for managing such costs and PSA deferrals and the related  amortization. Operations and Maintenance Expenses.  Operations and maintenance expenses are impacted by  customer and sales growth, power"
"plant operations, maintenance of utility plant (including generation,  transmission, and distribution facilities), inflation, unplanned outages, planned outages (typically scheduled  in the spring and fall), renewable energy and DSM related expenses (which are mostly offset by the same  amount of operating revenues) and other factors.  Table of Contents  71  Depreciation and Amortization Expenses.  Depreciation and amortization expenses are impacted  by net additions to utility plant and other"
"property (such as new generation, transmission, and distribution  facilities), and increases in intangible assets and changes in depreciation and amortization rates.  See  “Liquidity and Capital Resources” below for information regarding the planned additions to our facilities.     Pension and Other Postretirement Non-Service Credits, Net.  Pension and other postretirement  non-service credits can be impacted by changes in our actuarial assumptions.  The most relevant actuarial  assumptions are"
"the discount rate used to measure our net periodic costs/credit, the expected long-term rate  of return on plan assets used to estimate earnings on invested funds over the long-term, the mortality  assumptions and the assumed healthcare cost trend rates.  We review these assumptions on an annual basis  and adjust them as necessary.  See Note 7. Property Taxes.  Taxes other than income taxes consist primarily of property taxes, which are  affected by changes in plant balances related to new"
"investments and improvements to existing facilities,  the value of property in service and under construction, assessment ratios, and tax rates.  The average  property tax rate in Arizona for APS, which owns essentially all of our property, was 9.7% of the assessed  value for 2024, 10.0% for 2023, and 10.2% for 2022.  Property taxes increased in 2024 due to higher plant  balances related to expansion and improvements on our existing generation, transmission, and distribution  facilities,"
"partially offset by legislative changes reducing both property tax assessment ratios and rates in  Arizona.     Income Taxes.  Income taxes are affected by the amount of pretax book income, income tax rates,  certain deductions, and non-taxable items, such as AFUDC.  In addition, income taxes may also be affected  by the settlement of issues with taxing authorities.    Interest Expense.  Interest expense is affected by the amount of debt outstanding and the interest  rates on that debt.  See"
"Note 6 for further details.  The primary factors affecting borrowing levels are  expected to be our capital expenditures, long-term debt maturities, equity issuances and internally  generated cash flow.  An allowance for borrowed funds used during construction offsets a portion of  interest expense while capital projects are under construction.  We stop accruing AFUDC on a project  when it is placed into service. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   Pinnacle West’s reportable business segment is our"
"regulated electricity segment, which consists of  traditional regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses (primarily electric service to Native Load  customers) and related activities and includes electricity generation, transmission, and distribution.  Our  reportable segment activities are conducted through our wholly-owned subsidiary, APS.  All other  operating segment activities are insignificant to Pinnacle West.     Table of Contents  72  Operating Results – 2024 compared with"
"2023 Our consolidated net income attributable to common shareholders for the year ended  December 31, 2024, was $609 million, compared with consolidated net income attributable to common  shareholders of $502 million for the prior-year period.  The results reflect an increase of approximately  $107 million, primarily as a result of the impacts of new customer rates, increased customer usage and  growth, the effects of weather, and higher CRS revenue and LFCR revenue.  These positive factors were"
"partially offset by higher operations and maintenance expense, higher depreciation and amortization  expense mostly due to increased plant and intangible assets, higher interest charges, net of AFUDC, higher  income taxes and lower transmission revenues. The following table presents net income attributable to common shareholders compared with the  prior year for Pinnacle West consolidated and for APS consolidated:   Pinnacle West Consolidated APS Consolidated Year Ended December 31, Year Ended"
"December 31, 2024 2023 Net  Change 2024 2023 Net  Change   (dollars in millions) Operating revenues $  5,125 $  4,696 $  429 $  5,125 $ 4,696 $  429  Fuel and purchased power expense   (1,823)   (1,793)   (30)   (1,823)   (1,793)   (30)  Operating revenues less fuel and purchased  power expenses   3,302   2,903   399   3,302   2,903   399  Operations and maintenance   (1,165)   (1,059)   (106)   (1,159)   (1,044)   (115)  Depreciation and amortization   (895)   (794)   (101)   (895)   (794)"
"(101)  Taxes other than income taxes   (227)   (224)   (3)   (227)   (224)   (3)  Allowance for equity funds used during  construction   39   53   (14)   39   53   (14)  Pension and other postretirement non-service  credits, net   49   41   8   49   42   7  Other income and expenses, net   11   7   4   (11)   7   (18)  Interest charges, net of allowance for borrowed  funds used during construction   (377)   (331)   (46)   (312)   (285)   (27)  Income taxes   (111)   (77)   (34)   (127)   (94)"
"(33)  Less income related to noncontrolling interests   (17)   (17)   —   (17)   (17)   —  Net Income Attributable to Common  Shareholders $  609 $  502 $  107 $  642 $  547 $  95  Table of Contents  73  Operating revenues less fuel and purchased power expenses.  Operating revenues less fuel and  purchased power expenses were $399 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2024, compared  with the prior-year period.  The following table summarizes the major components of this change:"
"Increase (Decrease) Operating revenues Fuel and purchased power  expenses Net change (dollars in millions) Impact of new rates from the 2022 Rate Case, effective March 8,  2024 (Note 3) $  260 $  — $  260  Higher retail revenue due to changes in usage patterns and  customer growth partially offset by the impacts of energy  efficiency and related pricing   112   55   57  Effects of weather   76   23   53  CRS revenue (Note 3)   17   —   17  Higher renewable energy regulatory surcharges, partially"
"offset by  operations and maintenance costs   21   4   17  LFCR revenue (Note 3)   16   —   16  Changes in net fuel and purchased power costs, including off- system sales margins and related deferrals   (61)   (52)   (9)  Lower transmission revenues (Note 3)   (12)   —   (12)  Total $  429 $  30 $  399  Operations and maintenance.  Operations and maintenance expenses increased $106 million for  the year ended December 31, 2024, compared with the prior-year period primarily due to:  • an increase"
"of $27 million related to information technology costs; • an increase of $25 million related to transmission, distribution, and customer service costs; • an increase of $20 million related to non-nuclear generation costs, primarily due to increased  planned outages; • an increase of $16 million related to employee benefit costs; • an increase of $14 million related to costs for renewable energy programs and similar  regulatory programs, which are partially offset in operating revenues and"
"purchased power;  • an increase of $7 million related to corporate resource costs; and • a decrease of $3 million for other miscellaneous factors. Depreciation and amortization.  Depreciation and amortization expenses were $101 million higher  for the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to increased plant  in service and intangible assets. Table of Contents  74  Interest charges, net of allowance for borrowed funds and equity funds used during"
"construction.  Interest charges, net of AFUDC, were $60 million higher for the year ended December 31,  2024, compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to higher debt balances and higher interest rates in  the current period, higher allowance for borrowed funds and lower allowance for equity funds.  Other income and expenses, net.  Other income and expenses, net were $4 million higher for the  year ended December 31, 2024, compared to the prior-year period, primarily due to the gain on"
"the sale of  BCE, partially offset by higher corporate giving expense.  See Note 16.  The difference between APS’s and  Pinnacle West’s other income and expense, net is primarily related to Pinnacle West’s gain on the sale of  BCE. Income taxes.  Income taxes were $34 million higher for the year ended December 31, 2024,  compared with the prior-year period, primarily due to higher pre-tax income, and lower tax benefits from  AFUDC equity, partially offset by higher tax credits. LIQUIDITY AND"
"CAPITAL RESOURCES   Overview   Pinnacle West’s primary cash needs are for dividends to our shareholders and principal and interest  payments on our indebtedness.  The level of our common stock dividends and future dividend growth will  be dependent on declaration by our Board of Directors and based on a number of factors, including our  financial condition, payout ratio, free cash flow and other factors.   Our primary sources of cash are dividends from APS and external debt and equity issuances."
"An  ACC order does not allow APS to pay common dividends if the payment would reduce its common equity  below 40%.  Per the related ACC order, the common equity ratio is defined as total shareholder equity  divided by the sum of total shareholder equity and long-term debt, including current maturities of long- term debt.  At December 31, 2024, APS’s common equity ratio, as defined, was 52%.  Its total shareholder  equity was approximately $8.3 billion, and total capitalization was approximately"
"$15.9 billion.  Under this  order, APS would be prohibited from paying dividends if such payment would reduce its total shareholder  equity below approximately $6.4 billion, assuming APS’s total capitalization remains the same.  This  restriction does not materially affect Pinnacle West’s ability to meet its ongoing cash needs or ability to  pay dividends to shareholders.   Dividends to Pinnacle West from APS are also dependent on a number of factors including, among  others, APS’s financial"
"condition and free cash flow, the sources of which vary from quarter-to-quarter due  in part to the seasonal nature of electricity demand.  APS’s sources of cash include cash from operations  and external sources of liquidity, including long- and short-term external debt financing such as  commercial paper, term loan and its revolving credit facility.  Cash from operations is dependent upon,  among other things, the rates APS may charge and the timeliness of recovering costs incurred through its"
"rates and adjustor recovery mechanisms.  APS’s capital requirements consist primarily of capital  expenditures and maturities of long-term debt.  APS funds its capital requirements with cash from  operations and, to the extent necessary, external debt financings and equity infusions from Pinnacle West.   On December 17, 2024, the ACC issued a financing order approving a limit on yearly equity infusions  equal to 2.5% of APS’s total assets each calendar year on a three-year rolling average basis,"
"subject to  APS’s equity ratio remaining below the most recently approved rate case capital structure plus 50 basis  points. Table of Contents  75  On June 12, 2024, Pinnacle West contributed $450 million into APS in the form of an equity  infusion.  APS used this contribution to repay short-term indebtedness.  On December 23, 2024, Pinnacle  West contributed $345 million into APS in the form of an equity infusion.  APS used this contribution to  repay a portion of commercial paper borrowings"
"and for other general corporate purposes. Pinnacle West and APS maintain committed revolving credit facilities that enhance liquidity and  provide credit support for accessing commercial paper markets.  These credit facilities mature in 2029.  See  Note 5.  Pinnacle West has an ATM program under which Pinnacle West may offer and sell Pinnacle West  common stock and enter into forward sale agreements from time to time, subject to market conditions and  other factors.  As of December 31, 2024,"
"approximately $850 million of common stock is available to be  issued under the ATM program, which takes into account the forward sale agreement in effect as of  December 31, 2024.  In addition to the ATM program, Pinnacle West has forward sale agreements from an equity  offering in February 2024 in effect as of December 31, 2024.  In December 2024, Pinnacle West partially  settled the February 2024 Forward Sale Agreements with the issuance of 5,377,115 shares of common  stock and received net"
"proceeds of $345 million.  The proceeds were recorded in equity.  At December 31,  2024, Pinnacle West could have settled the remaining February 2024 Forward Sale Agreements with the  issuance of 5,863,486 shares of common stock in exchange for cash of $377 million.  For additional  information regarding common stock issuances, the ATM program, and outstanding forward sale  agreements, see Note 13. Summary of Cash Flows   The following tables present net cash provided by (used for) operating,"
"investing and financing  activities for the years ended December 31, 2024, and 2023 (dollars in millions): Pinnacle West Consolidated   2024 2023 Net Change Net cash flow provided by operating activities $  1,610  $  1,207  $  403  Net cash flow used for investing activities   (1,934)   (1,694)   (240)  Net cash flow provided by financing activities   323    487    (164)  Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $  (1) $  —  $  (1)    Arizona Public Service Company   2024 2023 Net Change Net"
"cash flow provided by operating activities $  1,610 $  1,275  $  335  Net cash flow used for investing activities   (1,986)   (1,687)   (299)  Net cash flow provided by financing activities   375   412    (37)  Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $  (1) $  —  $  (1)  Table of Contents  76   Operating Cash Flows   2024 Compared with 2023.  Pinnacle West’s consolidated net cash provided by operating activities  was $1,610 million in 2024 compared to $1,207 million in 2023, an increase of"
"$403 million in net cash  provided, primarily due to $447 million higher cash receipts from electric revenues, $236 million lower  fuel and purchased power costs, $15 million change in net collateral, partially offset by $125 million higher  income taxes paid, $104 million higher payments for operations and maintenance costs, $49 million higher  interest payments and $17 million of other changes in working capital.  The difference between APS’s and  Pinnacle West’s net cash provided by operating"
"activities primarily relates to APS’s higher income tax cash  payments to Pinnacle West and other changes in working capital. Retirement plans and other postretirement benefits.  Pinnacle West sponsors a qualified defined  benefit pension plan and a non-qualified supplemental excess benefit retirement plan for the employees of  Pinnacle West and our subsidiaries.  Pinnacle West also sponsors other postretirement benefit plans for the  employees of Pinnacle West and its subsidiaries.  The"
"requirements of the Employee Retirement Income  Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”) require us to contribute a minimum amount to the qualified plan.  We  contribute at least the minimum amount required under ERISA regulations, but no more than the maximum  tax-deductible amount.  Under ERISA, the qualified pension plan was estimated to be 100% funded as of  January 1, 2025, and was 113% as of January 1, 2024.  Future year contribution amounts are dependent on  plan asset performance and plan"
"actuarial assumptions.  We did not make any contributions to our pension  plan in 2024 and 2023.  The expected minimum required cash contributions for the pension plan are zero  for the next three years and we do not expect to make any voluntary cash contributions in 2025, 2026 or  2027.  Regarding contributions to our other postretirement benefit plan, we did not make any contributions  in 2024 or 2023 and do not expect to make any contributions in 2025, 2026 or 2027.  The Company was"
"reimbursed $27 million in 2024, $23 million in 2023, and $26 million in 2022 for prior years retiree  medical claims from the other postretirement benefit plan trust assets.  We continually monitor financial  market volatility and its impact on our retirement plans and other postretirement benefits, but we believe  our liability driven investment strategy helps to minimize the impact of market volatility on our plan’s  funded status.  For instance, our pension plan’s funded status, as measured"
"for accounting principles  generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) purposes, was 99% funded as of  December 31, 2024, and our postretirement benefit plans were 195% funded, as measured for GAAP  purposes at December 31, 2024.  See Note 7 for additional details.   Investing Cash Flows 2024 Compared with 2023.  Pinnacle West’s consolidated net cash used for investing activities was  $1,934 million in 2024 compared to $1,694 million in 2023, an increase of $240 million primarily"
"related  to $272 million of increased capital expenditures and $21 million of additional investing activity, partially  offset by proceeds of $61 million from the BCE Sale.  See Note 20.  The difference between APS’s and  Pinnacle West’s net cash used for investing activities primarily relates to the BCE Sale and investments  into the Captive Insurance Cell VIE.  See Note 17. Table of Contents  77  Capital Expenditures.  The following table summarizes the estimated capital expenditures for the"
"next three years:    Capital Expenditures (dollars in millions) Estimated for the Year Ended December 31,   2025 2026 2027 APS Generation: Clean: Nuclear Generation $  150 $  165 $  185  Renewables and Energy Storage Systems (“ESS”)   335   165   430  Other Generation (a)   420   540   335  Distribution   665   670   675  Transmission   450   675   750  Other   380   335   275  Total APS $  2,400 $  2,550 $  2,650  (a) Includes gas generation and environmental projects.   The table above does"
"not include capital expenditures related to PNW Power projects. Generation capital expenditures are comprised of various additions and improvements to APS’s  clean resources, including nuclear plants, renewables and ESS, as well as additions and improvements to  existing fossil plants.  We are monitoring the status of environmental matters, which, depending on their  final outcome, could require modification to our planned environmental expenditures. Distribution and transmission capital"
"expenditures are comprised of infrastructure additions and  upgrades, capital replacements, and new customer construction.  Examples of the types of projects included  in the forecast include power lines, substations, and line extensions to new residential and commercial  developments. Capital expenditures will be funded with internally generated cash and external financings, which  may include issuances of long-term debt and Pinnacle West common stock.   Financing Cash Flows and Liquidity"
"2024 Compared with 2023.  Pinnacle West’s consolidated net cash provided by financing activities  was $323 million in 2024 compared to $487 million in 2023, a decrease of $164 million in net cash  provided primarily due to $842 million higher long-term debt repayments and a net decrease in short-term  debt borrowings of $283 million, partially offset by $624 million in higher issuances of long-term debt and  an equity issuance of $345 million.  APS’s consolidated net cash provided by financing"
"activities was $375 million in 2024 compared  to $412 million in 2023, a decrease of $37 million in net cash provided primarily due to a net decrease in  Table of Contents  78  short-term borrowings of $374 million, $250 million higher long-term debt repayments and $50 million in  lower issuances of long-term debt, partially offset by $645 million in higher equity infusions. Significant Financing Activities.  On December 11, 2024, the Pinnacle West Board of Directors  declared a dividend of"
"$0.895 per share of common stock, payable on March 3, 2025, to shareholders of  record on February 3, 2025.  During 2024, Pinnacle West increased its indicated annual dividend from  $3.52 per share to $3.58 per share.  For the year ended December 31, 2024, Pinnacle West’s total dividends  paid per share of common stock were $3.54 per share, which resulted in dividend payments of $395  million. Available Credit Facilities.  Pinnacle West and APS maintain committed revolving credit facilities  in"
"order to enhance liquidity and provide credit support for their commercial paper.  See Note 5 for more  information on available credit facilities. Equity Offerings.  Pinnacle West has an ATM program under which Pinnacle West may offer and  sell Pinnacle West common stock and enter into equity forward sale agreements from time to time, subject  to market conditions and other factors.  On December 31, 2024, Pinnacle West could have settled the  outstanding November 2024 ATM Forward Sale Agreement"
"with the physical delivery of 552,833 shares  of Pinnacle West common stock in exchange for cash of approximately $50 million.  As of December 31,  2024, Pinnacle West has not received any proceeds relating to the November 2024 Forward Sale  Agreement.  In addition to the ATM program, Pinnacle West entered into certain equity forward sale  agreements in February 2024, which were partially settled in December 2024 with the issuance of   5,377,115 shares of common stock.  In connection with the"
"partial settlement, Pinnacle West received net  proceeds of $345 million.  At December 31, 2024, Pinnacle West could have settled the remaining  February 2024 Forward Sale Agreements with the issuance of 5,863,486 shares of common stock in  exchange for cash of $377 million.  See Note 13. Other Financing Matters.  See Note 15 for information related to the change in our margin and  collateral accounts.   Debt Provisions   Pinnacle West’s and APS’s debt covenants related to their respective bank"
"financing arrangements  include maximum debt to capitalization ratios.  Pinnacle West and APS comply with these covenants.  For  both Pinnacle West and APS, these covenants require that the ratio of consolidated debt to total  consolidated capitalization not exceed 65%.  At December 31, 2024, the ratio was approximately 59% for  Pinnacle West and 49% for APS.  Failure to comply with such covenant levels would result in an event of  default which, generally speaking, would require the immediate"
"repayment of the debt subject to the  covenants and could “cross-default” other debt.  See further discussion of “cross-default” provisions below.   Neither Pinnacle West’s nor APS’s financing agreements contain “rating triggers” that would result  in an acceleration of the required interest and principal payments in the event of a rating downgrade.   However, our bank credit agreements contain a pricing grid in which the interest rates we pay for  borrowings thereunder are determined by our"
"current credit ratings.   All of Pinnacle West’s loan agreements contain “cross-default” provisions that would result in  defaults and the potential acceleration of payment under these loan agreements if Pinnacle West or APS  were to default under certain other material agreements.  All of APS’s bank agreements contain “cross- default” provisions that would result in defaults and the potential acceleration of payment under these bank  Table of Contents  79  agreements if APS were to default"
"under certain other material agreements.  Pinnacle West and APS do not  have a material adverse change restriction for credit facility borrowings. On December 17, 2024, the ACC issued a financing order reaffirming the short-term debt  authorization equal to the sum of (i) 7% of APS’s capitalization and (ii) $500 million (which is required to  be used for costs relating to purchases of natural gas and power) and approving an increase of the long- term debt limit to $9.5 billion and a limit of"
"permitted annual equity infusions into APS equal to 2.5% of  APS’s total assets each calendar year on a three-year rolling average basis, subject to APS’s equity ratio  remaining below the most recently approved rate case capital structure plus 50 basis points.  See Note 6 for  additional long-term debt provisions and further discussions of liquidity matters. Credit Ratings The ratings of securities of Pinnacle West and APS as of February 18, 2025, are shown below.  We  are disclosing these"
"credit ratings to enhance understanding of our cost of short-term and long-term capital  and our ability to access the markets for liquidity and long-term debt.  The ratings reflect the respective  views of the rating agencies, from which an explanation of the significance of their ratings may be  obtained.  There is no assurance that these ratings will continue for any given period.  The ratings may be  revised or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies if, in their respective judgments,"
"circumstances so  warrant.  Any downward revision or withdrawal may adversely affect the market price of Pinnacle West’s  or APS’s securities and/or result in an increase in the cost of, or limit access to, capital.  Such revisions  may also result in substantial additional cash or other collateral requirements related to certain derivative  instruments, insurance policies, natural gas transportation, fuel supply, and other energy-related contracts.   On March 7, 2024, S&P affirmed the ratings"
"and revised Pinnacle West’s and APS’s outlooks from  negative to stable.  On March 20, 2024, Moody’s downgraded both Pinnacle West’s and APS’s credit  ratings by a notch and revised their outlooks from negative to stable.  On March 26, 2024, Fitch affirmed  APS’s ratings and downgraded Pinnacle West’s ratings by a notch.  Fitch revised the outlook for both  Pinnacle West and APS from negative to stable.  At this time, we believe we have sufficient available  liquidity resources to respond to a"
"potential downward revision to our credit ratings.    Moody’s  Standard & Poor’s   Fitch Pinnacle West           Corporate credit rating Baa2 BBB+ BBB Senior unsecured Baa2 BBB BBB Commercial paper P-2 A-2 F3 Outlook Stable Stable Stable APS           Corporate credit rating Baa1 BBB+ BBB+ Senior unsecured Baa1 BBB+ A- Commercial paper P-2 A-2 F2 Outlook Stable Stable Stable   Table of Contents  80  Contractual Obligations Pinnacle West has contractual obligations and other commitments that will"
"need to be funded in the  future, in addition to its capital expenditure programs.  Material contractual obligations and other  commitments are as follows: • Pinnacle West and APS have material long-term debt obligations that mature at various dates  through 2050 and bear interest principally at fixed rates.  Interest on variable-rate long-term  debt is determined by using average rates at December 31, 2024.  See Note 6. • Pinnacle West and APS maintain committed revolving credit facilities."
"See Note 5 for short- term debt details. • Fuel and purchased power commitments include purchases of coal, electricity, natural gas,  renewable energy, nuclear fuel, and natural gas transportation.  See Notes 3 and 10.  Purchase  obligations include capital expenditures and other obligations.  See Note 10.  Commitments  related to purchased power lease contracts are also considered fuel and purchased power  commitments.  See Note 8. • APS holds certain contracts to purchase renewable energy"
"credits in compliance with the RES.   See Notes 3 and 10. • APS is required to make payments to the noncontrolling interests related to the Palo Verde sale  leaseback through 2033.  See Note 17. • APS must reimburse certain coal providers for final and contemporaneous coal mine  reclamation.  See Note 10. • Pinnacle West’s equity forward sale agreements, which may be settled by Pinnacle West with  common stock or cash.  Pinnacle West has classified these agreements as equity transactions in"
"accordance with GAAP.  See Note 13.   CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES   In preparing the financial statements in accordance with GAAP, management must often make  estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and  related disclosures at the date of the financial statements and during the reporting period.  Some of those  judgments can be subjective and complex, and actual results could differ from those estimates.  We  consider"
"the following accounting policies to be our most critical because of the uncertainties, judgments  and complexities of the underlying accounting standards and operations involved. Regulatory Accounting Regulatory accounting allows for the actions of regulators, such as the ACC and FERC, to be  reflected in our financial statements.  Their actions may cause us to capitalize costs that would otherwise  be included as an expense in the current period by unregulated companies.  Regulatory assets"
"represent  incurred costs that have been deferred because they are probable of future recovery in customer rates.   Regulatory liabilities generally represent amounts collected in rates to recover costs expected to be  incurred in the future or amounts collected in excess of costs incurred and are refundable to customers.   Table of Contents  81  Management judgments include continually assessing the likelihood of future recovery of regulatory assets  and/or a disallowance of part of the cost of"
"recently completed plant, by considering factors such as  applicable regulatory environment changes and recent rate orders to other regulated entities in the same  jurisdiction.  This determination reflects the current political and regulatory climate in Arizona and is  subject to change in the future.  If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the assets would be  written off as a charge in current period earnings, except for pension benefits, which would be charged to  OCI and result"
"in lower future earnings.  Management judgments also include assessing the impact of  potential ACC- or FERC-ordered refunds to customers on regulatory liabilities.  We had $1,810 million of  regulatory assets and $2,062 million of regulatory liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at  December 31, 2024.  See Notes 1 and 3 for more information. Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefit Accounting Changes in our actuarial assumptions used in calculating our pension and other postretirement"
"benefit assets, liabilities and expense can have a significant impact on our earnings and financial position.   We review these assumptions on an annual basis and adjust them as necessary.  The most relevant actuarial  assumptions are the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets (“EROA”), and the  assumed healthcare cost trend rates.  Differences between these actuarial assumptions and actual plan  results may create volatility in pension and other postretirement"
"benefit expense.  To reduce this volatility,  these differences are accumulated and amortized (subject to a corridor of 10% of the greater of plan assets  or obligations) as part of the expense over a period of approximately 11 years.  Following are the most  relevant actuarial assumptions:  Discount Rate.  The discount rate is used to measure the plan liability and net periodic cost.  For  this assumption, we utilize a yield curve produced by our actuary as of December 31st and employ their"
"projections of the future benefit payments to estimate the projected benefit obligation for each plan.  This  process also yields a single equivalent discount rate that produces the same present value for the projection  of estimated benefit payments that is generated by discounting each year’s benefit payments by a spot rate  to that year.  The spot rates are derived from a yield curve composed of domestic AA rated corporate  bonds.  EROA.  The EROA is used to estimate earnings on invested"
"funds over the long-term.  For this  assumption, we consider historical experience and future expectations of asset classes utilized in the  portfolio.  Healthcare Cost Trend Rates.  We consider past performance and forecasts of health care costs,  and our actuary provides the Company with a medical trend recommendation based on national medical  trend, historical claims performance, benchmarking, and plan design changes. Table of Contents  82  The following chart reflects the sensitivities that"
"a change in certain actuarial assumptions would  have had on the December 31, 2024, reported pension assets and liabilities on the Consolidated Balance  Sheets and our 2024 reported pension expense, after consideration of amounts capitalized or billed to  electric plant participants, on the Consolidated Statements of Income (dollars in millions):   Increase (Decrease) Actuarial Assumption (a) Impact on Pension Plans Impact on Pension Expense Discount rate (b):     Increase 1% $  (231) $  (11)"
"Decrease 1%   271   11  EROA: Increase 1%   —   (24)  Decrease 1%   —   24  (a) Each fluctuation assumes that the other assumptions of the calculation are held constant while  the rates are changed by one percentage point. (b) In general, changes in the discount rate will not typically have symmetrical effects for increases  and decreases of the rate.  Further, a 1% change in a low discount rate environment will have a  larger impact than a 1% change in a high discount rate environment."
"Therefore, the discount  rate sensitivities above cannot necessarily be extrapolated.  Additionally, the Pension Plan  utilizes a liability-driven strategy for its pension asset portfolio, and the obligation and expense  sensitivities shown above do not reflect the offsetting impact that a change in interest rates may  have on pension asset values.  The following chart reflects the sensitivities that a change in certain actuarial assumptions would  have had on the December 31, 2024, other"
"postretirement benefit obligation on the Pinnacle West’s  Consolidated Balance Sheets and our 2024 reported other postretirement benefit expense, after  consideration of amounts capitalized or billed to electric plant participants, on Pinnacle West’s  Consolidated Statements of Income (dollars in millions):    Increase (Decrease) Actuarial Assumption (a) Impact on Other Postretirement  Benefit Plans Impact on Other Postretirement Benefit Expense Discount rate (b):     Increase 1% $  (32) $  (2)"
"Decrease 1%   38   3  Healthcare cost trend rate (c): Increase 1%   12   5  Decrease 1%   (10)   (5)  EROA – pretax: Increase 1%   —   (6)  Decrease 1%   —   6  Table of Contents  83  (a) Each fluctuation assumes that the other assumptions of the calculation are held constant while  the rates are changed by one percentage point. (b) In general, changes in the discount rate will not typically have symmetrical effects for increases  and decreases of the rate.  Further, a 1% change in a low"
"discount rate environment will have a  larger impact than a 1% change in a high discount rate environment.  Therefore, the discount  rate sensitivities above cannot necessarily be extrapolated.  (c) This assumes a 1% change in the initial and ultimate healthcare cost trend rate. See Note 7 for further details about our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Fair Value Measurements We account for derivative instruments, investments held in our nuclear decommissioning trusts  fund,"
"investments held in our other special use funds, certain cash equivalents, and plan assets held in our  retirement and other benefit plans at fair value on a recurring basis.  Fair value is the price that would be  received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants  at the measurement date.  We use inputs, or assumptions that market participants would use, to determine  fair market value.  We utilize valuation techniques that maximize"
"the use of observable inputs and  minimize the use of unobservable inputs.  The significance of a particular input determines how the  instrument is classified in a fair value hierarchy.  The determination of fair value sometimes requires  subjective and complex judgment.  Our assessment of the inputs and the significance of a particular input  to fair value measurement may affect the valuation of the instruments and their placement within a fair  value hierarchy.  Actual results could differ"
"from our estimates of fair value.  See Note 1 for a discussion of  accounting policies and Note 12 for fair value measurement disclosures. Asset Retirement Obligations We recognize an ARO for the future decommissioning or retirement of our tangible long-lived  assets for which a legal obligation exists.  The ARO liability represents an estimate of the fair value of the  current obligation related to decommissioning and the retirement of those assets.  ARO measurements  inherently involve"
"uncertainty in the amount and timing of settlement of the liability.  We use an expected  cash flow approach to measure the amount we recognize as an ARO.  This approach applies probability  weighting to discounted future cash flow scenarios that reflect a range of possible outcomes.  The scenarios  consider settlement of the ARO at the expiration of the asset’s current license or lease term and expected  decommissioning dates.  The fair value of an ARO is recognized in the period in which it is"
"incurred.  The  associated asset retirement costs are capitalized as part of the carrying value of the long-lived asset and are  depreciated over the life of the related assets.  In addition, we accrete the ARO liability to reflect the  passage of time.  Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the amount of the  recorded ARO for these assets.  In accordance with GAAP accounting, APS accrues removal costs for its  regulated utility assets, even if there is no legal"
"obligation for removal.  AROs as of December 31, 2024 are described further in Note 11. Table of Contents  84  OTHER ACCOUNTING MATTERS We adopted new accounting standard, ASU 2023-07, Segment Reporting: Improvements to  Reportable Segment Disclosures, on December 31, 2024.  We will adopt new accounting standard, ASU  2023-09, Income Taxes: Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures, on December 31, 2025.  We are  currently evaluating the disclosure impacts of the pending adoption of the new"
"accounting standard, ASU  2024-03, Income Statement Reporting: Expense Disaggregation Disclosures, effective for us on    December 31, 2027.  See Note 21 for additional information relating to new accounting standards.  MARKET AND CREDIT RISKS   Market Risks   Our operations include managing market risks related to changes in interest rates, commodity  prices, investments held by our nuclear decommissioning trusts, other special use funds and benefit plan  assets.   Interest Rate and Equity Risk"
"We have exposure to changing interest rates.  Changing interest rates will affect interest paid on  variable-rate debt and the market value of fixed income securities held by our nuclear decommissioning  trust, other special use funds (see Notes 12 and 18), and benefit plan assets.  The nuclear decommissioning  trust, other special use funds and benefit plan assets also have risks associated with the changing market  value of their equity and other non-fixed income investments.  Nuclear"
"decommissioning, coal reclamation,  and benefit plan costs are recovered in regulated electricity prices. The tables below present contractual balances of our consolidated long-term and short-term debt at  the expected maturity dates, as well as the fair value of those instruments on December 31, 2024, and  2023.  If variable interest rates were to increase by 10% from the December 31, 2024, levels, it would not  have a material effect on Pinnacle West Consolidated or APS Consolidated annual"
"interest expense.  The  interest rates presented in the tables below represent the weighted-average interest rates as of December 31,  2024, and 2023 (dollars in millions):   Pinnacle West – Consolidated   Short-Term Debt Variable-Rate Long-Term Debt Fixed-Rate Long-Term Debt   Interest   Interest   Interest   2024 Rates Amount Rates Amount Rates Amount 2025  4.90 % $  568   —  $  —   1.99 % $  800  2026   —    —   5.88 %   350   2.55 %   250  2027   —    —   —    —   4.10 %   825  2028   —    —"
"—    —   —    —  2029   —    —   4.01 %   164   2.60 %   405  Years thereafter   —    —   —    —   4.31 %   6,125  Total $  568  $  514  $  8,405  Fair value $  568  $  514  $  7,405  Table of Contents  85    Short-Term Debt Variable-Rate Long-Term Debt Fixed-Rate Long-Term Debt   Interest   Interest   Interest   2023 Rates Amount Rates Amount Rates Amount 2024  5.46 % $  610   6.20 % $  625   3.35 % $  250  2025   —    —   —    —   1.99 %   800  2026   —    —   —    —   2.55 %   250  2027   —"
"—   —    —   2.95 %   300  2028   —    —   —    —   —    —  Years thereafter   —    —   4.11 %   164   4.22 %   6,080  Total $  610  $  789  $  7,680  Fair value $  610  $  789  $  6,767  The tables below present contractual balances of APS’s long-term and short-term debt at the  expected maturity dates, as well as the fair value of those instruments on December 31, 2024, and 2023.   The interest rates presented in the tables below represent the weighted-average interest rates as of  December"
"31, 2024, and 2023 (dollars in millions): APS — Consolidated   Short-Term Debt Variable-Rate Long-Term Debt Fixed-Rate Long-Term Debt   Interest   Interest   Interest   2024 Rates Amount Rates Amount Rates Amount 2025  4.62 % $  340   —  $  —   3.15 % $  300  2026   —    —   —    —   2.55 %   250  2027   —    —   —    —   2.95 %   300  2028   —    —   —    —   —    —  2029   —    —   4.01 %   164   2.60 %   405  Years thereafter   —    —   —    —   4.31 %   6,125  Total $  340  $  164  $  7,380"
"Fair value $  340  $  164  $  6,361    Table of Contents  86    Short-Term Debt Variable-Rate Long-Term Debt Fixed-Rate Long-Term Debt   Interest   Interest   Interest   2023 Rates Amount Rates Amount Rates Amount 2024  5.46 % $  533   —  $  —   3.35 % $  250  2025   —    —   —    —   3.15 %   300  2026   —    —   —    —   2.55 %   250  2027   —    —   —    —   2.95 %   300  2028   —    —   —    —   —    —  Years thereafter   —    —   4.11 %   164   4.22 %   6,080  Total $  533  $  164  $  7,180"
"Fair value $  533  $  164  $  6,296    Commodity Price Risk   We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the commodity price and transportation  costs of electricity and natural gas.  Our risk management committee, consisting of officers and key  management personnel, oversees company-wide energy risk management activities to ensure compliance  with our stated energy risk management policies.  We manage risks associated with these market  fluctuations by utilizing various commodity"
"instruments that may qualify as derivatives, including futures,  forwards, options, and swaps.  As part of our risk management program, we use such instruments to hedge  purchases and sales of electricity and natural gas.  The changes in market value of such contracts have a  high correlation to price changes in the hedged commodities. The following table shows the net pretax changes in mark-to-market of our energy derivative  positions (dollars in millions):   December 31, 2024 December 31,"
"2023 Mark-to-market of net positions at beginning of year $  (120) $  96  Decrease (increase) in regulatory asset   78   (216)  Mark-to-market of net positions at end of year $  (42) $  (120)  The table below shows the fair value of maturities of our energy derivative contracts (dollars in  millions) at December 31, 2024, by maturities and by the type of valuation that is performed to calculate  the fair values, classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant"
"to the fair  value measurement.  See Note 1, “Derivative Accounting” and “Fair Value Measurements,” for more  discussion of our valuation methods. Source of Fair Value 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 Total  Fair  Value Observable prices provided by other  external sources $  (32) $  2 $  3 $  — $  — $  (27)  Prices based on unobservable inputs   (6)   (9)   —   —   —   (15)  Total by maturity $  (38) $  (7) $  3 $  — $  — $  (42)  Table of Contents  87  The table below shows the impact that"
"hypothetical price movements of 10% would have on the  market value of our risk management assets and liabilities included on Pinnacle West’s Consolidated  Balance Sheets (dollars in millions):   December 31, 2024 Gain (Loss) December 31, 2023 Gain (Loss)   Price Up   10% Price Down  10% Price Up   10% Price Down  10% Mark-to-market changes reported in:         Regulatory asset (liability) (a)         Electricity $  3 $  (3) $  9 $  (9)  Natural gas   75   (75)   55   (55)  Total $  78 $  (78) $"
"64 $  (64)  (a) These contracts are economic hedges of our forecasted purchases of natural gas and electricity.   The impact of these hypothetical price movements would substantially offset the impact that  these same price movements would have on the physical exposures being hedged.  To the  extent the amounts are eligible for inclusion in the PSA, the amounts are recorded as either a  regulatory asset or liability.   Credit Risk   We are exposed to losses in the event of non-performance or"
"non-payment by counterparties.  See  Note 15 for a discussion of our credit valuation adjustment policy. ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   See “Market and Credit Risks” in Item 7 above for a discussion of quantitative and qualitative  disclosures about market risks. Table of Contents  88  ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES     Page     Management’s Report on Internal Control"
"over Financial Reporting (Pinnacle West Capital Corporation) 90 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID No. 34) 91 Pinnacle West Consolidated Statements of Income for 2024, 2023 and 2022 95 Pinnacle West Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for 2024, 2023 and 2022 96 Pinnacle West Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2024 and 2023 97 Pinnacle West Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for 2024, 2023 and 2022 99 Pinnacle West Consolidated Statements"
"of Changes in Equity for 2024, 2023 and 2022 100     Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting (Arizona Public Service Company) 101 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID No. 34) 102 APS Consolidated Statements of Income for 2024, 2023 and 2022 106 APS Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for 2024, 2023 and 2022 107 APS Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2024 and 2023 108 APS Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for 2024,"
"2023 and 2022 110 APS Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity for 2024, 2023 and 2022 111 Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 112 Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 112 Note 2. Revenue 122 Note 3. Regulatory Matters 123 Note 4. Income Taxes 138 Note 5. Lines of Credit and Short-Term Borrowings 143 Note 6. Long-Term Debt and Liquidity Matters 145 Note 7. Retirement Plans and Other Postretirement Benefits 150 Note 8. Leases 158 Note 9. Jointly-Owned Facilities"
"162 Note 10. Commitments and Contingencies 163 Note 11. Asset Retirement Obligations 172 Note 12. Fair Value Measurements 174 Note 13. Common Stock Equity and Earnings Per Share 180 Note 14. Stock-Based Compensation 182 Note 15. Derivative Accounting 185 Note 16. Other Income and Other Expense 189 Note 17. Variable Interest Entities 190 Note 18. Investments in Nuclear Decommissioning Trusts and Other Special Use Funds 192 Note 19. Changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 195 Note 20. Sale"
"of Bright Canyon Energy 196 Note 21. New Accounting Standards 197 Table of Contents  89  MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING (PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION) Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over  financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f), for Pinnacle West Capital  Corporation.  Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over  financial"
"reporting based on the framework in Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013) issued by  the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  Based on our evaluation under  the framework in Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013), our management concluded that our  internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2024.  The effectiveness of our  internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2024, has been audited by Deloitte"
"& Touche  LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included herein  and also relates to the Company’s consolidated financial statements.   February 25, 2025 Table of Contents  90  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of  Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Phoenix, Arizona Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting  We have audited the"
"accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Pinnacle West Capital Corporation and  subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, the related consolidated statements of  income, comprehensive income, changes in equity, and cash flows, for each of the three years in the period  ended December 31, 2024, and the related notes and the schedule listed in the Index at Item 15  (collectively referred to as the “financial statements”). We also have audited the Company’s internal  control"
"over financial reporting as of December 31, 2024, based on criteria established in Internal Control  — Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway  Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the  financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, and the results of its operations and  its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended"
"December 31, 2024, in conformity with  accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, the  Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of  December 31, 2024, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by COSO. Basis for Opinions  The Company’s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective  internal control"
"over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over  financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial  Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and an opinion on the  Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm  registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States)"
"(PCAOB) and are  required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws  and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we  plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free  of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and"
"whether effective internal control over  financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material  misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures to  respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the  amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating"
"the accounting  principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall  presentation of the financial statements. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included  obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material  weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based  Table of Contents  91  on the assessed risk. Our audits also"
"included performing such other procedures as we considered  necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting  A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable  assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for  external purposes in accordance with generally accepted"
"accounting principles. A company’s internal  control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance  of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the  assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to  permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and  that receipts and"
"expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of  management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or  timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a  material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect  misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation"
"of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk  that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance  with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Critical Audit Matter The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current-period audit of the  financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and  that (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are"
"material to the financial statements and (2) involved our  especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does  not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by  communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or  on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates. Regulatory Accounting — Impact of Rate Regulation on the Financial"
"Statements — Refer to Notes 1  and 3 to the financial statements Critical Audit Matter Description Arizona Public Service Company (“APS”), which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, is subject  to rate regulation by the Arizona Corporation Commission (the “ACC”), which has jurisdiction with  respect to the rates charged by public service utilities in Arizona. Management has determined it meets the  requirements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of"
"America to prepare its  financial statements applying the specialized rules to account for the effects of cost-based rate regulation.  Accounting for the economics of rate regulation impacts multiple financial statement line items and  disclosures, such as property, plant and equipment; regulatory assets and liabilities; operating revenues;  fuel and purchased power; operations and maintenance expense; and depreciation expense. The ACC’s rate-making policies are premised on the full recovery of"
"prudently incurred costs and a  reasonable rate of return on invested capital. Decisions to be made by the ACC in the future will impact the  accounting for regulated operations, including decisions about the amount of allowable deferred costs and  Table of Contents  92  return on invested capital included in rates and any refunds that may be required. While the Company has  indicated it expects to recover costs from customers through regulated rates, there is a risk that the ACC  will not"
"approve: (1) full recovery of the costs of providing utility service, or (2) full recovery of all  amounts invested in the utility business and a reasonable return on that investment. If future recovery of  regulatory assets ceases to be probable or a disallowance becomes probable, it would result in a charge to  earnings.    We identified Regulatory Accounting, specifically the impact of rate regulation on the financial statements,  as a critical audit matter due to the significant judgments"
"made by management to support its assertions  about impacted account balances and disclosures and the high degree of subjectivity involved in assessing  the impact of future regulatory rate orders on the financial statements. Management judgments include  continually assessing the likelihood of future recovery of regulatory assets and/or a disallowance of part of  the cost of recently completed plant, by considering factors such as applicable regulatory environment  changes, and recent rate"
"orders specific to APS and to other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction.  Management judgments also include assessing the impact of potential ACC-ordered refunds to customers  on regulatory liabilities. Given that management’s accounting judgments are based on assumptions about  the outcome of future decisions by the ACC, auditing these judgments required specialized knowledge of  accounting for rate regulation and the rate setting process due to its inherent complexities. How the"
"Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit Our audit procedures related to the impact of rate regulation on the financial statements included the  following, among others:  • We tested the effectiveness of management’s controls over the evaluation of the likelihood of (1)  the recovery in future rates of costs of recently completed plant and costs deferred as regulatory  assets and (2) a refund or a future reduction in rates that should be reported as regulatory liabilities.  We also"
"tested the effectiveness of management’s controls over the initial recognition of amounts  as property, plant, and equipment; regulatory assets or liabilities; and the monitoring and evaluation  of regulatory developments that may affect the likelihood of recovering costs in future rates or of a  future reduction in rates. • We evaluated the Company’s disclosures related to regulatory accounting, specifically the impact  of rate regulation on the financial statements, including the balances"
"recorded and regulatory  developments. • We read relevant regulatory rate orders issued by the ACC for APS and other public utilities in  Arizona, regulatory statutes, interpretations, procedural memorandums, filings made by  intervenors, and other publicly available information to assess the likelihood of recovery in future  rates or of a future reduction in rates based on precedents of the ACC’s treatment of similar costs  under similar circumstances. We evaluated the external information,"
"regulatory orders and filings,  and compared to management’s recorded regulatory assets and liabilities for completeness. ◦ We read the ACC’s approved decision regarding the 2022 Retail Rate Case.  ◦ We obtained the Company’s internally prepared memo concluding on the impacts of the  ACC’s approved decision regarding the 2022 Retail Rate Case on rates and recorded  regulatory balances. ◦ We read and analyzed the minutes of the Boards of Directors of the Company for  discussions of changes in"
"legal, regulatory, or business factors which could impact  Table of Contents  93  management’s conclusions with respect to the financial statement impacts of rate  regulation. • We evaluated management’s assessment of the probability of recovery for regulatory assets or  refund or future reduction in rates for regulatory liabilities based on applicable regulatory orders or  precedents set by the ACC under similar circumstances. We read the minutes of the Boards of  Directors of the Company for"
"discussions of changes in legal, regulatory, or business factors which  could impact management’s assessment. /s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP Tempe, Arizona February 25, 2025 We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1932. Table of Contents  94  PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (dollars and shares in thousands, except per share amounts)     Year Ended December 31,   2024 2023 2022 OPERATING REVENUES (Note 2) $  5,124,915 $  4,695,991 $  4,324,385  OPERATING"
"EXPENSES Fuel and purchased power   1,822,566   1,792,657   1,629,343  Operations and maintenance   1,165,156   1,058,725   987,072  Depreciation and amortization   895,346   794,043   753,195  Taxes other than income taxes   227,395   224,013   220,370  Other expense   2,389   1,913   2,494  Total   4,112,852   3,871,351   3,592,474  OPERATING INCOME   1,012,063   824,640   731,911  OTHER INCOME (DEDUCTIONS)       Allowance for equity funds used during construction (Note 1)   38,620   53,118"
"45,263  Pension and other postretirement non-service credits, net (Note 7)   48,870   40,648   98,487  Other income (Note 16)   48,614   33,666   7,916  Other expense (Note 16)   (34,136)   (25,056)   (52,385)  Total   101,968   102,376   99,281  INTEREST EXPENSE Interest charges   425,742   374,887   283,569  Allowance for borrowed funds used during construction (Note 1)   (48,270)   (43,564)   (28,030)  Total   377,472   331,323   255,539  INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES   736,559   595,693"
"575,653  INCOME TAXES (Note 4)   110,529   76,912   74,827  NET INCOME   626,030   518,781   500,826  Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (Note 17)   17,224   17,224   17,224  NET INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO COMMON SHAREHOLDERS $  608,806 $  501,557 $  483,602  WEIGHTED-AVERAGE COMMON SHARES OUTSTANDING —  BASIC   113,846   113,442   113,196  WEIGHTED-AVERAGE COMMON SHARES OUTSTANDING —  DILUTED   116,232   113,804   113,416  EARNINGS PER WEIGHTED-AVERAGE COMMON SHARE"
"OUTSTANDING       Net income attributable to common shareholders — basic $  5.35 $  4.42 $  4.27  Net income attributable to common shareholders — diluted $  5.24 $  4.41 $  4.26   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. Table of Contents  95  PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (dollars in thousands)     Year Ended December 31,   2024 2023 2022 NET INCOME $  626,030 $  518,781 $  500,826  OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME"
"(LOSS), NET OF TAX       Derivative instruments:       Net unrealized gain (loss), net of tax benefit (expense) of $(292),  $234, and $615    (891)   713   1,873  Pension and other postretirement benefits activity, net of tax benefit  (expense) of $(1,073), $801, and $(7,078) (Note 7)   3,093   (2,422)   21,553  Total other comprehensive income (loss)   2,202   (1,709)   23,426  COMPREHENSIVE INCOME   628,232   517,072   524,252  Less: Comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling"
"interests   17,224   17,224   17,224  COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO COMMON  SHAREHOLDERS $  611,008 $  499,848 $  507,028    The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. Table of Contents  96  PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (dollars in thousands)     December 31,   2024 2023 ASSETS     CURRENT ASSETS     Cash and cash equivalents $  3,838 $  4,955  Customer and other receivables   525,608   513,892  Accrued unbilled revenues"
"176,903   167,553  Allowance for doubtful accounts (Note 2)   (24,849)   (22,433)  Materials and supplies (at average cost)   469,022   444,344  Income tax receivable (Note 4)   —   332  Fossil fuel (at average cost)   32,420   49,203  Assets from risk management activities (Note 15)   10,578   6,808  Assets held for sale (Note 20)   —   35,139  Deferred fuel and purchased power regulatory asset (Note 3)   287,597   463,195  Other regulatory assets (Note 3)   133,372   162,562  Other current"
"assets   74,915   101,417  Total current assets   1,689,404   1,926,967  INVESTMENTS AND OTHER ASSETS     Nuclear decommissioning trusts (Notes 12 and 18)   1,282,845   1,201,246  Other special use funds (Notes 12, 17 and 18)   408,357   362,781  Assets from risk management activities (Note 15)   5,980   —  Other assets   115,095   102,845  Total investments and other assets   1,812,277   1,666,872  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Notes 1, 6 and 9)     Plant in service and held for future use"
"25,860,950   24,211,167  Accumulated depreciation and amortization   (9,027,426)   (8,408,040)  Net   16,833,524   15,803,127  Construction work in progress   1,592,659   1,724,004  Palo Verde sale leaseback, net of accumulated depreciation of $268,894 and $264,624  (Note 17)   82,556   86,426  Intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization of $925,880 and $885,505   591,310   267,110  Nuclear fuel, net of accumulated amortization of $115,894 and $118,074   97,850   99,490  Total property,"
"plant and equipment   19,197,899   17,980,157  DEFERRED DEBITS     Regulatory assets (Notes 1, 3, 4 and 7)   1,389,489   1,390,279  Operating lease right-of-use assets (Note 8)   1,605,463   1,309,975  Assets for pension and other postretirement benefits (Note 7)   342,102   323,438  Other   66,126   63,465  Total deferred debits   3,403,180   3,087,157  TOTAL ASSETS $ 26,102,760 $ 24,661,153    The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. Table of Contents  97"
"PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (dollars in thousands)   December 31,   2024 2023 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY     CURRENT LIABILITIES     Accounts payable $  485,426 $  442,455  Accrued taxes    175,863   166,833  Accrued interest   81,799   72,916  Common dividends payable   106,592   99,813  Short-term borrowings (Note 5)   568,450   609,500  Current maturities of long-term debt (Note 6)   800,000   875,000  Customer deposits   44,345   42,037  Liabilities from risk"
"management activities (Note 15)   52,340   80,913  Liabilities for asset retirements (Note 11)   50,009   28,550  Operating lease liabilities (Note 8)   100,367   67,883  Regulatory liabilities (Note 3)   206,955   209,923  Other current liabilities   171,651   193,524  Total current liabilities   2,843,797   2,889,347  LONG-TERM DEBT LESS CURRENT MATURITIES (Note 6)   8,058,648   7,540,622  DEFERRED CREDITS AND OTHER     Deferred income taxes (Note 4)   2,444,473   2,416,480  Regulatory"
"liabilities (Notes 1, 3, 4 and 7)   1,855,278   1,965,865  Liabilities for asset retirements (Note 11)   1,096,577   937,451  Liabilities for pension benefits (Note 7)   139,317   112,702  Liabilities from risk management activities (Note 15)   9,446   42,975  Customer advances   569,343   533,580  Coal mine reclamation   171,483   184,007  Deferred investment tax credit   249,490   257,743  Unrecognized tax benefits (Note 4)   44,233   33,861  Operating lease liabilities (Note 8)   1,520,877"
"1,210,189  Other   242,320   251,469  Total deferred credits and other   8,342,837   7,946,322  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Note 10) EQUITY     Common stock, no par value; authorized 150,000,000 shares, 119,143,782 and  113,537,689 issued at respective dates   3,121,617   2,752,676  Treasury stock at cost; 46,968 and 113,272 shares at respective dates   (3,323)   (8,185)  Total common stock   3,118,294   2,744,491  Retained earnings   3,666,959   3,466,317  Accumulated other comprehensive"
"loss (Note 19)   (30,942)   (33,144)  Total shareholders’ equity   6,754,311   6,177,664  Noncontrolling interests (Note 17)   103,167   107,198  Total equity   6,857,478   6,284,862  TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY $ 26,102,760 $ 24,661,153  The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. Table of Contents  98  PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (dollars in thousands)   Year Ended December 31,   2024 2023 2022 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING"
"ACTIVITIES       Net Income $  626,030  $  518,781  $  500,826  Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:       Gain on sale relating to BCE   (22,988)   (6,423)   —  Depreciation and amortization including nuclear fuel   956,184    854,136    817,814  Deferred fuel and purchased power   (250,288)   (549,877)   (291,992)  Deferred fuel and purchased power amortization   425,886    547,243    219,579  Allowance for equity funds used during construction"
"(38,620)   (53,118)   (45,263)  Deferred income taxes   (20,923)   (24,310)   43,202  Deferred investment tax credit   (8,253)   77,065    (5,893)  Change in derivative instruments fair value   —    (777)   777  Stock compensation   23,532   17,341   15,942  Changes in current assets and liabilities:       Customer and other receivables   (12,696)   (61,983)   (63,869)  Accrued unbilled revenues   (9,350)   (2,789)   (30,784)  Materials, supplies and fossil fuel   (7,895)   (42,911)   (83,469)"
"Income tax receivable   332    13,754    (6,572)  Other current assets   (50,225)   (19,550)   76,089  Accounts payable   (7,214)   (75,623)   90,076  Accrued taxes   9,030    2,393    (4,205)  Other current liabilities   47,329    40,510    (1,856)  Change in long-term regulatory assets   43,305   53,112   12,432  Change in long-term regulatory liabilities   9,416    28,495    (332,470)  Change in other long-term assets   (132,563)   (195,598)   159,030  Change in operating lease assets"
"98,214   90,525   105,359  Change in other long-term liabilities   24,794    63,080    170,359  Change in operating lease liabilities   (93,214)   (65,779)   (103,671)  Net cash provided by operating activities  1,609,823   1,207,697   1,241,441  CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES       Capital expenditures  (2,249,195)  (1,846,370)  (1,707,490)  Contributions in aid of construction   311,358    180,866    137,436  Proceeds from sale relating to BCE   84,322    23,400    —  Allowance for"
"borrowed funds used during construction   (48,270)   (43,564)   (28,030)  Proceeds from nuclear decommissioning trust sales and other special use funds  1,686,094   1,679,722   1,207,713  Investment in nuclear decommissioning trust and other special use funds  (1,709,526)  (1,681,845)  (1,212,063)  Other   (8,413)   (6,458)   (15,612)  Net cash used for investing activities  (1,933,630)  (1,694,249)  (1,618,046)  CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES       Issuance of long-term debt  1,313,229"
"689,349    875,537  Repayment of long-term debt   (875,000)   (32,740)   (150,000)  Short-term borrowings and (repayments) — net   (241,050)   241,900    48,720  Short-term debt borrowings under term loan facility   550,000   —   —  Short-term debt repayments under term loan facility   (350,000)   —    —  Dividends paid on common stock   (394,663)   (386,486)   (378,881)  Common stock equity issuance and purchases — net   341,429    (4,093)   (2,653)  Capital activities by noncontrolling"
"interests   (21,255)   (21,255)   (21,255)  Net cash provided by financing activities   322,690    486,675    371,468  NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS   (1,117)   123    (5,137)  CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR   4,955    4,832    9,969  CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR $  3,838  $  4,955  $  4,832  The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. Table of Contents  99  PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS"
"OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) Common Stock Treasury Stock Retained  Earnings Accumulated  Other  Comprehensive  Income (Loss) Noncontrolling  Interests Total Shares Amount Shares Amount Balance, December 31, 2021  113,014,528  $ 2,702,743   (87,608) $  (6,401) $ 3,264,719  $  (54,861) $  115,260  $ 6,021,460  Net income   —    —    483,602    —    17,224    500,826  Other comprehensive income   —    —    —    23,426    —    23,426  Dividends on common"
"stock  ($3.43 per share)   —    —   (387,975)   —    —    (387,975)  Issuance of common stock   232,661    21,996    —    —    —    —    21,996  Purchase of treasury stock (a)   —   (77,152)   (5,152)   —    —    —    (5,152)  Reissuance of treasury stock  for stock-based compensation  and other   —    91,147    6,548    —    —    —    6,548  Capital activities by  noncontrolling interests   —    —    —    —    (21,255)   (21,255)  Other   1    —    1    —    —    2  Balance, December 31, 2022"
"113,247,189   2,724,740   (73,613)   (5,005)  3,360,347    (31,435)   111,229    6,159,876  Net income   —    —    501,557    —    17,224    518,781  Other comprehensive loss   —    —    —    (1,709)   —    (1,709)  Dividends on common stock  ($3.49 per share)   —    —   (395,585)   —    —    (395,585)  Issuance of common stock   290,500    27,936    —    —    —    —    27,936  Purchase of treasury stock (a)   —   (72,180)   (5,466)   —    —    —    (5,466)  Reissuance of treasury stock  for"
"stock-based compensation  and other   —    32,521    2,287    —    —    —    2,287  Capital activities by  noncontrolling interests   —    —    —    —    (21,255)   (21,255)  Other   —    (1)   (2)   —    —    (3)  Balance, December 31, 2023  113,537,689   2,752,676   (113,272)   (8,185)  3,466,317    (33,144)   107,198    6,284,862  Net income   —    —    608,806    —    17,224    626,030  Other comprehensive income   —    —    —    2,202    —    2,202  Dividends on common stock  ($3.55 per"
"share)   —    —   (408,162)   —    —    (408,162)  Issuance of common stock  (b)   5,606,093    368,941    —    —    —    368,941  Purchase of treasury stock (a)   —   (71,008)   (4,907)   —    —    —    (4,907)  Reissuance of treasury stock  for stock-based compensation  and other   —   137,312    9,768    —    —    —    9,768  Capital activities by  noncontrolling interests   —    —    —    —    (21,255)   (21,255)  Other   —    1    (2)   —    —    (1)  Balance, December 31, 2024  119,143,782"
"$ 3,121,617   (46,968) $  (3,323) $ 3,666,959  $  (30,942) $  103,167  $ 6,857,478  (a)  Primarily represents shares of common stock withheld from certain stock awards for tax purposes. (b)  See Note 13 for information related to our equity forward sale agreements that were executed in February 2024 and  November 2024.  As of December 31, 2024, 5,377,115 shares of common stock have been issued as part of these  agreements. The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements."
"Table of Contents  100  MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING (ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY)   Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over  financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f), for Arizona Public Service  Company.  Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial  reporting based on the framework in Internal Control — Integrated"
"Framework (2013) issued by the  Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  Based on our evaluation under the  framework in Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013), our management concluded that our  internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2024.  The effectiveness of our  internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2024, has been audited by Deloitte & Touche  LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm,"
"as stated in their report which is included herein  and also relates to the Company’s financial statements.   February 25, 2025 Table of Contents  101  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Shareholder and the Board of Directors of  Arizona Public Service Company Phoenix, Arizona Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Arizona Public Service Company and"
"subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, the related consolidated statements of  income, comprehensive income, changes in equity, and cash flows, for each of the three years in the period  ended December 31, 2024, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “financial statements”). We  also have audited the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2024, based  on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013)"
"issued by the Committee of  Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the  financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2024 and 2023, and the results of its operations and  its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2024, in conformity with  accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion,"
"the  Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of  December 31, 2024, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013)  issued by COSO. Basis for Opinions  The Company’s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective  internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over  financial reporting, included in the"
"accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial  Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and an opinion on the  Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm  registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are  required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws  and the"
"applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we  plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free  of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over  financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial"
"statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material  misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures to  respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the  amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting  principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall  presentation of the"
"financial statements. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included  obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material  weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based  Table of Contents  102  on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered  necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a"
"reasonable basis for our opinions. Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting  A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable  assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for  external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal  control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)"
"pertain to the maintenance  of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the  assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to  permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and  that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of  management and directors of the company; and"
"(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or  timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a  material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect  misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk  that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,"
"or that the degree of compliance  with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Critical Audit Matter The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current-period audit of the  financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and  that (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our  especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of"
"critical audit matters does  not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by  communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or  on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates. Regulatory Accounting – Impact of Rate Regulation on the Financial Statements — Refer to Notes 1  and 3 to the financial statements Critical Audit Matter Description The Company is subject to rate regulation by"
"the Arizona Corporation Commission (the “ACC”), which  has jurisdiction with respect to the rates charged by public service utilities in Arizona. Management has  determined it meets the requirements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States  of America to prepare its financial statements applying the specialized rules to account for the effects of  cost-based rate regulation. Accounting for the economics of rate regulation impacts multiple financial  statement line"
"items and disclosures, such as property, plant and equipment; regulatory assets and  liabilities; operating revenues; fuel and purchased power; operations and maintenance expense; and  depreciation expense. The ACC’s rate-making policies are premised on the full recovery of prudently incurred costs and a  reasonable rate of return on invested capital. Decisions to be made by the ACC in the future will impact the  accounting for regulated operations, including decisions about the amount of"
"allowable deferred costs and  Table of Contents  103  return on invested capital included in rates and any refunds that may be required. While the Company has  indicated it expects to recover costs from customers through regulated rates, there is a risk that the ACC  will not approve: (1) full recovery of the costs of providing utility service, or (2) full recovery of all  amounts invested in the utility business and a reasonable return on that investment. If future recovery of  regulatory"
"assets ceases to be probable or a disallowance becomes probable, it would result in a charge to  earnings. We identified Regulatory Accounting, specifically the impact of rate regulation on the financial statements,  as a critical audit matter due to the significant judgments made by management to support its assertions  about impacted account balances and disclosures and the high degree of subjectivity involved in assessing  the impact of future regulatory rate orders on the financial"
"statements. Management judgments include  continually assessing the likelihood of future recovery of regulatory assets and/or a disallowance of part of  the cost of recently completed plant, by considering factors such as applicable regulatory environment  changes, and recent rate orders specific to APS and to other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction.  Management judgments also include assessing the impact of potential ACC-ordered refunds to customers  on regulatory liabilities. Given"
"that management’s accounting judgments are based on assumptions about  the outcome of future decisions by the ACC, auditing these judgments required specialized knowledge of  accounting for rate regulation and the rate setting process due to its inherent complexities. How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit Our audit procedures related to the impact of rate regulation on the financial statements included the  following, among others: • We tested the effectiveness of management’s"
"controls over the evaluation of the likelihood of (1)  the recovery in future rates of costs of recently completed plant and costs deferred as regulatory  assets and (2) a refund or a future reduction in rates that should be reported as regulatory liabilities.  We also tested the effectiveness of management’s controls over the initial recognition of amounts  as property, plant, and equipment; regulatory assets or liabilities; and the monitoring and evaluation  of regulatory developments that may"
"affect the likelihood of recovering costs in future rates or of a  future reduction in rates. • We evaluated the Company’s disclosures related to regulatory accounting, specifically the impact  of rate regulation on the financial statements, including the balances recorded and regulatory  developments. • We read relevant regulatory rate orders issued by the ACC for the Company and other public  utilities in Arizona, regulatory statutes, interpretations, procedural memorandums, filings made by"
"intervenors, and other publicly available information to assess the likelihood of recovery in future  rates or of a future reduction in rates based on precedents of the ACC’s treatment of similar costs  under similar circumstances. We evaluated the external information, regulatory orders and filings,  and compared to management’s recorded regulatory assets and liabilities for completeness. ◦ We read the ACC’s approved decision regarding the 2022 Retail Rate Case. ◦ We obtained the Company’s"
"internally prepared memo concluding on the impacts of the  ACC’s approved decision regarding the 2022 Retail Rate Case on rates and recorded  regulatory balances. ◦ We read and analyzed the minutes of the Boards of Directors of the Company for  discussions of changes in legal, regulatory, or business factors which could impact  Table of Contents  104  management’s conclusions with respect to the financial statement impacts of rate  regulation. • We evaluated management’s assessment of the"
"probability of recovery for regulatory assets or  refund or future reduction in rates for regulatory liabilities based on applicable regulatory orders or  precedents set by the ACC under similar circumstances. We read the minutes of the Boards of  Directors of the Company for discussions of changes in legal, regulatory, or business factors which  could impact management’s assessment. /s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP Tempe, Arizona February 25, 2025 We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1932."
"Table of Contents  105  ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (dollars in thousands)     Year Ended December 31,   2024 2023 2022 OPERATING REVENUES (Note 2) $ 5,124,915 $ 4,695,991 $ 4,324,385  OPERATING EXPENSES       Fuel and purchased power  1,822,566  1,792,657  1,629,343  Operations and maintenance  1,158,634  1,043,570   974,220  Depreciation and amortization   895,171   793,958   753,110  Taxes other than income taxes   227,307   223,962   220,277  Other"
"expense   2,389   1,913   2,494  Total  4,106,067  3,856,060  3,579,444  OPERATING INCOME  1,018,848   839,931   744,941  OTHER INCOME (DEDUCTIONS)       Allowance for equity funds used during construction (Note 1)   38,620   53,118   45,263  Pension and other postretirement non-service credits, net (Note 7)   49,489   41,577   98,945  Other income (Note 16)   21,094   27,072   5,888  Other expense (Note 16)   (29,698)   (18,264)   (26,108)  Total   79,505   103,503   123,988  INTEREST EXPENSE"
"Interest charges   360,481   323,719   262,815  Allowance for borrowed funds used during construction (Note 1)   (48,270)   (39,030)   (26,839)  Total   312,211   284,689   235,976  INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES   786,142   658,745   632,953  INCOME TAXES (Note 4)   126,993   94,184   90,800  NET INCOME   659,149   564,561   542,153  Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (Note 17)   17,224   17,224   17,224  NET INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO COMMON SHAREHOLDER $ 641,925 $ 547,337 $"
"524,929    The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. Table of Contents  106  ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (dollars in thousands)     Year Ended December 31,   2024 2023 2022 NET INCOME $  659,149 $  564,561 $  542,153  OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS), NET OF TAX       Pension and other postretirement benefits activity, net of tax benefit  (expense) of $(1,022), $536, and $(6,332) (Note 7)   3,103   (1,623)"
"19,284  Total other comprehensive income (loss)   3,103   (1,623)   19,284  COMPREHENSIVE INCOME   662,252   562,938   561,437  Less: Comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interests   17,224   17,224   17,224  COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO COMMON  SHAREHOLDER $  645,028 $  545,714 $  544,213    The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. Table of Contents  107  ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (dollars in thousands)"
"December 31,   2024 2023 ASSETS     PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Notes 1, 6 and 9)     Plant in service and held for future use $ 25,860,068 $ 24,207,706  Accumulated depreciation and amortization   (9,026,544)   (8,404,721)  Net   16,833,524   15,802,985  Construction work in progress   1,592,659   1,724,004  Palo Verde sale leaseback, net of accumulated depreciation of $268,894 and $264,624  (Note 17)   82,556   86,426  Intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization of $925,880 and"
"$884,371   591,154   266,955  Nuclear fuel, net of accumulated amortization of $115,894 and $118,074   97,850   99,490  Total property, plant and equipment   19,197,743   17,979,860  INVESTMENTS AND OTHER ASSETS     Nuclear decommissioning trusts (Notes 12 and 18)   1,282,845   1,201,246  Other special use funds (Notes 12 and 18)   374,156   362,781  Assets from risk management activities (Note 15)   5,980   —  Other assets   49,673   43,625  Total investments and other assets   1,712,654"
"1,607,652  CURRENT ASSETS     Cash and cash equivalents   3,815   4,549  Customer and other receivables   522,886   510,296  Accrued unbilled revenues   176,903   167,553  Allowance for doubtful accounts (Note 2)   (24,849)   (22,433)  Materials and supplies (at average cost)   469,022   444,344  Fossil fuel (at average cost)   32,420   49,203  Income tax receivable (Note 4)   5,463   —  Assets from risk management activities (Note 15)   10,578   6,808  Deferred fuel and purchased power"
"regulatory asset (Note 3)   287,597   463,195  Other regulatory assets (Note 3)   133,372   162,562  Other current assets   65,754   64,311  Total current assets   1,682,961   1,850,388  DEFERRED DEBITS     Regulatory assets (Notes 1, 3, 4 and 7)   1,389,489   1,390,279  Operating lease right-of-use assets (Note 8)   1,604,324   1,308,611  Assets for pension and other postretirement benefits (Note 7)   335,458   316,606  Other   65,606   63,059  Total deferred debits   3,394,877   3,078,555"
"TOTAL ASSETS $ 25,988,235 $ 24,516,455    The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. Table of Contents  108  ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (dollars in thousands)   December 31,   2024 2023 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY     CAPITALIZATION     Common stock $  178,162 $  178,162  Additional paid-in capital   4,116,696   3,321,696  Retained earnings   3,992,423   3,759,299  Accumulated other comprehensive loss (Note 19)   (14,116)   (17,219)  Total"
"shareholder equity   8,273,165   7,241,938  Noncontrolling interests (Note 17)   103,167   107,198  Total equity   8,376,332   7,349,136  Long-term debt less current maturities (Note 6)   7,190,878   7,041,891  Total capitalization   15,567,210   14,391,027  CURRENT LIABILITIES     Short-term borrowings (Note 5)   339,900   532,850  Current maturities of long-term debt (Note 6)   300,000   250,000  Accounts payable   481,955   433,229  Accrued taxes    181,698   162,288  Accrued interest"
"79,308   72,548  Common dividends payable   107,200   99,800  Customer deposits   44,345   42,037  Liabilities from risk management activities (Note 15)   52,340   80,913  Liabilities for asset retirements (Note 11)   50,009   28,550  Operating lease liabilities (Note 8)   100,229   67,608  Regulatory liabilities (Note 3)   206,955   209,923  Other current liabilities   177,019   211,773  Total current liabilities   2,120,958   2,191,519  DEFERRED CREDITS AND OTHER     Deferred income taxes"
"(Note 4)   2,419,937   2,431,697  Regulatory liabilities (Notes 1, 3, 4 and 7)   1,855,278   1,965,865  Liabilities for asset retirements (Note 11)   1,096,577   937,451  Liabilities for pension benefits (Note 7)   134,855   106,215  Liabilities from risk management activities (Note 15)   9,446   42,975  Customer advances   569,343   533,580  Coal mine reclamation   171,483   184,007  Deferred investment tax credit   249,490   257,743  Unrecognized tax benefits (Note 4)   48,725   33,861"
"Operating lease liabilities (Note 8)   1,519,683   1,208,857  Other   225,250   231,658  Total deferred credits and other   8,300,067   7,933,909  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Note 10) TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY $ 25,988,235 $ 24,516,455  The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. Table of Contents  109  ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (dollars in thousands)   Year Ended December 31,   2024 2023 2022 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING"
"ACTIVITIES       Net income $  659,149  $  564,561  $  542,153  Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:       Depreciation and amortization including nuclear fuel   956,009    854,051    817,729  Deferred fuel and purchased power   (250,288)   (549,877)   (291,992)  Deferred fuel and purchased power amortization   425,886    547,243    219,579  Allowance for equity funds used during construction   (38,620)   (53,118)   (45,263)  Deferred income taxes"
"(56,461)   (10,314)   (6,817)  Deferred investment tax credit   (8,253)   77,065    (5,893)  Changes in current assets and liabilities:       Customer and other receivables   (13,570)   (62,716)   (60,930)  Accrued unbilled revenues   (9,350)   (2,789)   (30,784)  Materials, supplies and fossil fuel   (7,895)   (42,911)   (83,469)  Income tax receivable   (5,463)   1,102    9,654  Other current assets   (14,704)   (20,243)   59,970  Accounts payable   (2,500)   (70,622)   79,492  Accrued taxes"
"19,410    5,542    4,734  Other current liabilities   31,982    62,212    1,190  Change in long-term regulatory assets   43,305    53,112    12,432  Change in long-term regulatory liabilities   9,416    28,495    (332,470)  Change in other long-term assets   (159,940)   (188,483)   170,587  Change in operating lease assets   97,989    90,234    105,058  Change in other long-term liabilities   27,202    58,574    168,503  Change in operating lease liabilities   (93,076)   (65,482)   (103,361)"
"Net cash provided by operating activities   1,610,228    1,275,636    1,230,102  CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES       Capital expenditures   (2,249,195)   (1,825,585)  (1,655,051)  Contributions in aid of construction   311,358    180,866    137,436  Allowance for borrowed funds used during construction   (48,270)   (39,030)   (26,839)  Proceeds from nuclear decommissioning trust sales and other special use funds   1,686,094    1,679,722    1,207,713  Investment in nuclear decommissioning"
"trust and other special use funds   (1,684,526)   (1,681,845)  (1,212,063)  Other   (1,660)   (1,397)   (727)  Net cash used for investing activities   (1,986,199)   (1,687,269)  (1,549,531)  CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES       Issuance of long-term debt   445,842    496,025    524,852  Repayment of long-term debt   (250,000)   —    —  Short-term borrowings and (repayments) — net   (192,950)   180,970    46,300  Short-term debt borrowings under term loan facility   350,000    —    —"
"Short-term debt repayments under term loan facility   (350,000)   —    —  Dividends paid on common stock   (401,400)   (393,600)   (385,800)  Equity infusion from Pinnacle West   795,000    150,000    150,000  Capital activities of noncontrolling interests   (21,255)   (21,255)   (21,255)  Net cash provided by financing activities   375,237    412,140    314,097  NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS   (734)   507    (5,332)  CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR   4,549"
"4,042    9,374  CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR $  3,815  $  4,549  $  4,042    The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. Table of Contents  110  ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (dollars in thousands) Common Stock Additional  Paid-In  Capital Retained  Earnings Accumulated  Other  Comprehensive  Income (Loss) Noncontrolling  Interests Total Shares Amount Balance, December 31, 2021  71,264,947  $ 178,162  $"
"3,021,696  $ 3,470,235  $  (34,880) $  115,260  $ 6,750,473  Equity infusion from Pinnacle  West   —    150,000    —    —    —    150,000  Net income   —    —    524,929    —    17,224    542,153  Other comprehensive income   —    —    —    19,284    —    19,284  Dividends on common stock   —    —    (387,700)   —    —    (387,700)  Capital activities by  noncontrolling interests   —    —    —    —    (21,255)   (21,255)  Balance, December 31, 2022  71,264,947   178,162   3,171,696   3,607,464"
"(15,596)   111,229   7,052,955  Equity infusion from Pinnacle  West   —    150,000    —    —    —    150,000  Net income   —    —    547,337    —    17,224    564,561  Other comprehensive loss   —    —    —    (1,623)   —    (1,623)  Dividends on common stock   —    —    (395,500)   —    —    (395,500)  Capital activities by  noncontrolling interests   —    —    —    —    (21,255)   (21,255)  Other   —    —    (2)   —    —    (2)  Balance, December 31, 2023  71,264,947   178,162   3,321,696"
"3,759,299    (17,219)   107,198   7,349,136  Equity infusion from Pinnacle  West   —    795,000    —    —    —    795,000  Net income   —    —    641,925    —    17,224    659,149  Other comprehensive income   —    —    —    3,103    —    3,103  Dividends on common stock   —    —    (408,800)   —    —    (408,800)  Capital activities by  noncontrolling interests   —    —    —    —    (21,255)   (21,255)  Other   —    —    (1)   —    —    (1)  Balance, December 31, 2024  71,264,947  $ 178,162  $"
"4,116,696  $ 3,992,423  $  (14,116) $  103,167  $ 8,376,332  The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. Table of Contents  111  1.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  Description of Business and Basis of Presentation   Pinnacle West is a holding company that conducts business through its subsidiaries, APS, El  Dorado and PNW Power.  APS, our wholly-owned subsidiary, is a vertically-integrated electric utility that  provides either retail or wholesale"
"electric service to substantially all of the state of Arizona, with the major  exceptions of about one-half of the Phoenix metropolitan area, the Tucson metropolitan area and Mohave  County in northwestern Arizona.  APS accounts for essentially all of our revenues and earnings and is  expected to continue to do so.  El Dorado is a wholly-owned subsidiary that invests in energy-related and  Arizona community-based ventures.  PNW Power is a wholly-owned subsidiary that was created in  September"
"2023 to hold certain investments in wind and transmission joint projects.  See Note 20 for more  information on PNW Power.    BCE was a Pinnacle West subsidiary that was formed in 2014.  On August 4, 2023, Pinnacle West  entered into a purchase and sale agreement pursuant to which all of our equity interest in BCE was sold.  The sale was completed on January 12, 2024.  See Note 20 for more information relating to the sale of  BCE. Pinnacle West’s Consolidated Financial Statements include the"
"accounts of Pinnacle West and our  subsidiaries, including APS, El Dorado, and PNW Power, as well as our former subsidiary BCE until its  sale.  Pinnacle West’s Consolidated Financial Statements also include the accounts of a VIE relating to a  Captive Insurance Cell (“Captive”).  APS’s Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of  APS and certain VIEs relating to the Palo Verde sale leaseback.  Intercompany accounts and transactions  between the consolidated companies have been"
"eliminated.   We consolidate Variable Interest Entities (each a “VIE”) for which we are the primary beneficiary.   We determine whether we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE through a qualitative analysis that identifies  which variable interest holder has the controlling financial interest in the VIE.  In performing our primary  beneficiary analysis, we consider all relevant facts and circumstances, including the design and activities of  the VIE, the terms of the contracts the VIE has"
"entered into, and which parties participated significantly in  the design or redesign of the entity.  We continually evaluate our primary beneficiary conclusions to  determine if changes have occurred which would impact our primary beneficiary assessments.  We have  determined that APS is the primary beneficiary of certain VIE lessor trusts relating to the Palo Verde sale  leaseback, and therefore APS consolidates these entities.  We have also determined that Pinnacle West is  the primary"
"beneficiary of a protected captive insurance cell VIE, and therefore Pinnacle West consolidates  this insurance cell.  See Note 17 for additional information.   Accounting Records and Use of Estimates   Our accounting records are maintained in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted  in the United States of America (“GAAP”).  The preparation of financial statements in accordance with  GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of"
"assets  and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and  reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  Actual results could differ from  those estimates.   Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             112  Regulatory Accounting   APS is regulated by the ACC and FERC.  The accompanying financial statements reflect the rate- making policies of these commissions.  As a result,"
"we capitalize certain costs that would be included as  expense in the current period by unregulated companies.  Regulatory assets represent incurred costs that  have been deferred because they are probable of future recovery in customer rates.  Regulatory liabilities  generally represent amounts collected in rates to recover costs expected to be incurred in the future or  amounts collected in excess of costs incurred and are refundable to customers.    Management judgments include continually"
"assessing the likelihood of future recovery of  regulatory assets and/or a disallowance of part of the cost of recently completed plant, by considering  factors such as applicable regulatory environment changes and recent rate orders to other regulated entities  in the same jurisdiction.  This determination reflects the current political and regulatory climate in Arizona  and is subject to change in the future.  If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the assets would be  written off"
"as a charge in current period earnings.  Management judgments also include assessing the  impact of potential commission-ordered refunds to customers on regulatory liabilities.    See Note 3 for additional information.   Electric Revenues   Revenues primarily consist of activities that are classified as revenues from contracts with  customers.  Our electric revenues generally represent a single performance obligation delivered over time.   We have elected to apply the practical expedient that"
"allows us to recognize revenue based on the amount  to which we have a right to invoice for services performed.  We derive electric revenues primarily from sales of electricity to our regulated retail customers.   Revenues related to the sale of electricity are generally recognized when service is rendered or electricity is  delivered to customers.  Unbilled revenues are estimated by applying an average revenue/kWh by customer  class to the number of estimated kWhs delivered but not billed."
"Differences historically between the actual  and estimated unbilled revenues are immaterial.  We exclude sales taxes and franchise fees on electric  revenues from both revenue and taxes other than income taxes.    Revenues from our regulated retail customers and non-derivative instruments are reported on a  gross basis on Pinnacle West’s Consolidated Statements of Income.  In the electricity business, some  contracts to purchase electricity are netted against other contracts to sell electricity."
"This is called a “book- out” and usually occurs for contracts that have the same terms (quantities, delivery points and delivery  periods) and for which power does not flow.  We net these book-outs, which reduces both wholesale  revenues and fuel and purchased power costs. Certain cost recovery mechanisms may qualify as alternative revenue programs.  For alternative  revenue programs that meet specified accounting criteria, we recognize revenues when the specific events  permitting billing of"
"the additional revenues have been completed. See Notes 2 and 3 for additional information. Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             113  Allowance for Doubtful Accounts   The allowance for doubtful accounts represents our best estimate of accounts receivable and  accrued unbilled revenues that will ultimately be uncollectible due to credit loss risk.  The allowance  includes a write-off component that is calculated by applying an estimated write-off"
"factor to retail electric  revenues.  The write-off factor used to estimate uncollectible accounts is based upon consideration of  historical collections experience, the current and forecasted economic environment, changes to our  collection policies, and management’s best estimate of future collections success.   See Note 2 for additional information.   Property, Plant and Equipment   Utility plant is the term we use to describe the business property and equipment that supports  electric"
"service, consisting primarily of generation, transmission, and distribution facilities.  We report  utility plant at its original cost, which includes: • material and labor; • contractor costs; • capitalized leases; • construction overhead costs (where applicable); and • AFUDC. Pinnacle West’s property, plant and equipment included in the December 31, 2024, and 2023  Consolidated Balance Sheets is composed of the following (dollars in thousands): Property, Plant and Equipment: 2024 2023"
"Generation $  11,111,915 $  10,446,291  Transmission   4,135,970   3,773,253  Distribution   9,016,843   8,448,293  General plant   1,596,222   1,543,330  Plant in service and held for future use   25,860,950   24,211,167  Accumulated depreciation and amortization   (9,027,426)   (8,408,040)  Net   16,833,524   15,803,127  Construction work in progress   1,592,659   1,724,004  Palo Verde sale leaseback, net of accumulated depreciation   82,556   86,426  Intangible assets, net of accumulated"
"amortization   591,310   267,110  Nuclear fuel, net of accumulated amortization   97,850   99,490  Total property, plant and equipment $  19,197,899 $  17,980,157  Property, plant and equipment balances and classes for APS are not materially different than  Pinnacle West.   We expense the costs of plant outages, major maintenance and routine maintenance as incurred.   We charge retired utility plant to accumulated depreciation.  Liabilities associated with the retirement of  tangible long-lived"
"assets are recognized at fair value as incurred and capitalized as part of the related  tangible long-lived assets.  Accretion of the liability due to the passage of time is an operating expense, and  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             114  the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the long-lived asset.  See Note 11 for additional  information. APS records a regulatory liability for the excess that has been recovered in regulated"
"rates over the  amount calculated in accordance with guidance on accounting for AROs.  APS believes it is probable it  will recover in regulated rates, the costs calculated in accordance with this accounting guidance.   We record depreciation and amortization on utility plant on a straight-line basis over the remaining  useful life of the related assets.  The approximate remaining average useful lives of our utility property at  December 31, 2024, were as follows: • Steam generation — 11 years;"
"• Nuclear plant — 25 years; • Other generation — 18 years; • Transmission — 38 years; • Distribution — 33 years; and • General plant — 7 years.   Depreciation of utility property, plant and equipment is computed on a straight-line, remaining-life  basis.  Depreciation expense was $723 million in 2024, $669 million in 2023, and $632 million in 2022.   For the years 2022 through 2024, the depreciation rates ranged from a low of 1.37% to a high of 12.15%.   The weighted-average depreciation rate"
"was 3.13% in 2024, 2.98% in 2023, and 3.03% in 2022. Asset Retirement Obligations APS has AROs for its Palo Verde nuclear facilities and certain other generation assets.  The Palo  Verde ARO primarily relates to final plant decommissioning.  This obligation is based on the NRC’s  requirements for disposal of irradiated property or plant and agreements APS reached with the ACC for  final decommissioning of the plant.  The non-nuclear generation AROs primarily relate to requirements for  removing"
"portions of those plants at the end of the plant life or lease term and coal ash pond closures.   Some of APS’s transmission and distribution assets have AROs because they are subject to right of way  and easement agreements that require final removal.  These agreements have a history of uninterrupted  renewal that APS expects to continue.  As a result, APS cannot reasonably estimate the fair value of the  ARO related to such transmission and distribution assets.  Additionally, APS has aquifer"
"protection permits  for some of its generation sites that require the closure of certain facilities at those sites. See Note 11 for further information on Asset Retirement Obligations. Allowance for Funds Used During Construction   AFUDC represents the approximate net composite interest cost of borrowed funds and an allowed  return on the equity funds used for construction of regulated utility plant.  Both the debt and equity  components of AFUDC are non-cash amounts within the Consolidated"
"Statements of Income.  Plant  construction costs, including AFUDC, are recovered in authorized rates through depreciation when  completed projects are placed into commercial operation.   Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             115  AFUDC was calculated by using a composite rate of 6.23% for 2024, 6.29% for 2023, and 5.75%  for 2022.  APS compounds AFUDC semi-annually and ceases to accrue AFUDC when construction work  is completed and the property is"
"placed in service. On June 30, 2020, FERC issued an order granting a waiver request related to the existing AFUDC  rate calculation beginning March 1, 2020, through February 28, 2021.  On February 23, 2021, this waiver  was extended until September 30, 2021.  On September 21, 2021, it was further extended until March 31,  2022.  The order provided a simplified approach that companies may elect to implement in order to  minimize the significant distorted effect on the AFUDC formula resulting from"
"increased short-term debt  financing during the COVID-19 pandemic.  APS adopted this simplified approach to computing the  AFUDC composite rate by using a simple average of the actual historical short-term debt balances for  2019, instead of current period short-term debt balances, and left all other aspects of the AFUDC formula  composite rate calculation unchanged.  This change impacted the AFUDC composite rate in 2021 and for  the three-month period ended March 31, 2022.  Furthermore, the"
"change in the composite rate calculation  did not impact our accounting treatment for these costs.  The change did not have a material impact on our  financial statements. Materials and Supplies   APS values materials, supplies and fossil fuel inventory using a weighted-average cost method.   APS materials, supplies and fossil fuel inventories are carried at the lower of weighted-average cost or net  realizable value, unless evidence indicates that the weighted-average cost (even if in excess of"
"market) will  be recovered.   Fair Value Measurements   We apply recurring fair value measurements to cash equivalents, derivative instruments,  investments held in the nuclear decommissioning trust and other special use funds.  On an annual basis, we  apply fair value measurements to plan assets held in our retirement and other benefits plans.  Due to the  short-term nature of short-term borrowings, the carrying values of these instruments approximate fair  value.  Fair value measurements may"
"also be applied on a nonrecurring basis to other assets and liabilities  in certain circumstances such as impairments.  We also disclose fair value information for our long-term  debt, which is carried at amortized cost.  See Note 6 for additional information.   Fair value is the price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (exit price) in  the principal or most advantageous market which we can access for the asset or liability in an orderly  transaction between"
"willing market participants on the measurement date.  Inputs to fair value may include  observable and unobservable data.  We maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of  unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.   We determine fair market value using observable inputs such as actively-quoted prices for identical  instruments when available.  When actively-quoted prices are not available for the identical instruments,  we use other observable inputs, such as prices for"
"similar instruments, other corroborative market  information, or prices provided by other external sources.  For options, long-term contracts, and other  contracts for which observable price data are not available, we use models and other valuation methods,  which may incorporate unobservable inputs to determine fair market value. Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             116  The use of models and other valuation methods to determine fair market value"
"often requires  subjective and complex judgment.  Actual results could differ from the results estimated through  application of these methods. See Note 12 for additional information about fair value measurements. Derivative Accounting   We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the commodity price and transportation  costs of electricity, natural gas, coal and in interest rates.  We manage risks associated with market  volatility by utilizing various physical and financial"
"instruments including futures, forwards, options, and  swaps.  As part of our overall risk management program, we may use derivative instruments to hedge  purchases and sales of electricity and natural gas as well as interest rate risk.  The changes in market value  of such contracts have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged transactions.  We also enter into  derivative instruments for economic hedging purposes.  Contracts that have the same terms (quantities,  delivery points and"
"delivery periods) and for which power does not flow are netted, which reduces both  revenues and fuel and purchased power expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income, but does not  impact our financial condition, net income, or cash flows.   We account for our derivative contracts in accordance with derivatives and hedging guidance,  which requires all derivatives not qualifying for a scope exception to be measured at fair value on the  balance sheet as either assets or liabilities."
"Transactions with counterparties that have master netting  arrangements are reported net on the balance sheet.   See Note 15 for additional information about our derivative instruments.   Loss Contingencies and Environmental Liabilities   Pinnacle West and APS are involved in certain legal and environmental matters that arise in the  normal course of business.  Contingent losses and environmental liabilities are recorded when it is  determined that it is probable that a loss has occurred, and"
"the amount of the loss can be reasonably  estimated.  When a range of the probable loss exists and no amount within the range is a better estimate  than any other amount, Pinnacle West and APS record a loss contingency at the minimum amount in the  range.  Unless otherwise required by GAAP, legal fees are expensed as incurred.   The Captive’s contingent losses may include an amount for losses incurred but not reported  (“IBNR”).  A reserve for IBNR is based upon a loss analysis prepared using"
"actuarial assumptions and  techniques.  Such liabilities are necessarily based on estimates and the ultimate liability may be in excess  of or less than the amount provided.  The methods for making such estimates and for establishing the  resulting liability are continually reviewed, and any adjustments for the review process as well as  differences between estimates and ultimate payments are reflected in earnings currently.  As of      December 31, 2024, no IBNR reserve relating to our captive"
"insurance cell has been recorded.  See Note  17.  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             117  Retirement Plans and Other Postretirement Benefits   Pinnacle West sponsors a qualified defined benefit and account balance pension plan for the  employees of Pinnacle West and its subsidiaries, in addition to a non-qualified pension plan.  We also  sponsor another postretirement benefit plan for the employees of Pinnacle West and its subsidiaries that"
"provides medical and life insurance benefits to retired employees.  Pension and other postretirement benefit  expense are determined by actuarial valuations, based on assumptions that are evaluated annually.   See Note 7 for additional information on pension and other postretirement benefits.   Nuclear Fuel   APS amortizes nuclear fuel by using the unit-of-production method.  The unit-of-production  method is based on actual physical usage.  APS divides the cost of the fuel by the estimated"
"number of  thermal units it expects to produce with that fuel.  APS then multiplies that rate by the number of thermal  units produced within the current period.  This calculation determines the current period nuclear fuel  expense.   APS also charges nuclear fuel expense for the interim storage and permanent disposal of spent  nuclear fuel.  The DOE is responsible for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel and charged APS  $0.001 per kWh of nuclear generation through May 2014, at which"
"point the DOE reduced the fee to zero.   In accordance with a settlement agreement with the DOE in August 2014 for interim storage, we accrued a  receivable and an offsetting regulatory liability through the settlement period ended December of 2024.   See Note 10 for information on spent nuclear fuel disposal costs.   Income Taxes   Income taxes are provided using the asset and liability approach prescribed by guidance relating to  accounting for income taxes and are based on currently enacted"
"tax rates.  We file our federal income tax  return on a consolidated basis, and we file our state income tax returns on a consolidated or unitary basis.   In accordance with our intercompany tax sharing agreement, federal and state income taxes are allocated to  each first-tier subsidiary as though each first-tier subsidiary filed a separate income tax return.  Any  difference between that method and the consolidated (and unitary) income tax liability is attributed to the  parent company.  The"
"income tax accounts reflect the tax and interest associated with management’s  estimate of the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon  settlement for all known and measurable tax exposures.  See Note 4 for additional discussion.  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             118  Cash and Cash Equivalents    We consider cash equivalents to be highly liquid investments with a remaining maturity of three  months or"
"less at acquisition.   The following table summarizes supplemental Pinnacle West cash flow information for each of the  last three years (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Cash paid during the period for: Income taxes, net of refunds $  133,968 $  8,788 $  46,227  Interest, net of amounts capitalized   360,349   310,996   245,271  Significant non-cash investing and financing activities: Accrued capital expenditures $  257,494 $  206,269 $  114,999  Dividends accrued"
"but not yet paid   106,592   99,813   97,895  BCE Sale non-cash consideration (Note 20)   —   28,262   —  The following table summarizes supplemental APS cash flow information for each of the last three  years (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Cash paid during the period for: Income taxes, net of refunds $  179,013 $  21,734 $  95,985  Interest, net of amounts capitalized   299,799   267,261   227,159  Significant non-cash investing and financing activities: Accrued"
"capital expenditures $  257,494 $  206,269 $  116,533  Dividends accrued but not yet paid   107,200   99,800   97,900  Intangible Assets   We have separately disclosed intangible assets on Pinnacle West’s Consolidated Balance Sheets.   The intangible assets relate primarily to APS’s internal-use software.  We have no goodwill recorded.  The  intangible assets are amortized over their finite useful lives.  Amortization expense was $136 million in  2024, $90 million in 2023, and $84 million in"
"2022.  Estimated amortization expense on existing intangible  assets over the next five years is $106 million in 2025, $77 million in 2026, $43 million in 2027, $25  million in 2028, and $14 million in 2029.  At December 31, 2024, the weighted-average remaining  amortization period for intangible assets was 5 years.   Investments   El Dorado holds investments in both debt and equity securities.  Investments in debt securities are  generally accounted for as held-to-maturity and investments in"
"equity securities are accounted for using  either the equity method (if significant influence) or the measurement alternative for investments without  readily determinable fair values (if less than 20% ownership and no significant influence). Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             119  PNW Power holds investments in equity securities.  Investments in equity securities are accounted  for using either the equity method (if significant influence) or the"
"measurement alternative for investments  without readily determinable fair values (if less than 20% ownership and no significant influence).   Our investments in the nuclear decommissioning trusts, and other special use funds, are accounted  for in accordance with guidance on accounting for investments in debt and equity securities.  See Notes 12  and 18 for more information on these investments. Leases We determine if an agreement is a lease at contract inception.  A lease is defined as a"
"contract, or  part of a contract, that conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in  exchange for consideration.  To control the use of an identified asset an entity must have both a right to  obtain substantially all of the benefits from the use of the asset and the right to direct the use of the asset.   If we determine an agreement is a lease, and we are the lessee, we recognize a right-of-use lease asset and a  lease liability at the lease commencement"
"date.  Lease liabilities are recognized based on the present value  of the fixed lease payments over the lease term.  To present value lease liabilities we use the implicit rate in  the lease if the information is readily available, otherwise we use our incremental borrowing rate  determined at lease commencement.  Our incremental borrowing rate is based on the rate of interest we  would have to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term an amount equal to the lease payments  in a"
"similar economic environment.  When measuring right-of-use assets and lease liabilities we exclude  variable lease payments, other than those that depend on an index or rate or are in-substance fixed  payments.  For short-term leases with terms of 12 months or less, we do not recognize a right-of-use lease  asset or lease liability.  We recognize operating lease expense using a straight-line pattern over the periods  of use.  APS enters into purchased power contracts that may contain leases."
"This occurs when a purchased  power agreement designates a specific power plant or facility, APS obtains substantially all of the  economic benefits from the use of the facility and has the right to direct the use of the facility.  Purchased  power lease contracts may also include energy storage facilities.  Lease costs relating to purchased power  lease contracts are reported in fuel and purchased power on the Consolidated Statements of Income and are  subject to recovery under the PSA or RES."
"See Note 3.  We also may enter into lease agreements related to  vehicles, office space, land, and other equipment.  See Note 8 for information on our lease agreements. Business Segments   Pinnacle West’s reportable business segment is our regulated electricity segment, which consists of  traditional regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses (primarily electric service to Native Load  customers) and related activities and includes electricity generation, transmission, and"
"distribution.  Our  reportable segment activities are conducted through our wholly-owned subsidiary, APS.  All other  operating segment activities are insignificant to Pinnacle West. Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             120  For segment reporting purposes, Pinnacle West’s Chief Executive Officer performs the function of  chief operating decision maker (“CODM”).  The CODM uses net income to measure an operating  segment’s profitability.    When"
"assessing the performance of an operating segment, and making decisions  about allocating resources, the CODM evaluates net income actual results compared to budget.  Net  income is also used when implementing strategic initiatives and selecting projects to meet business  objectives.  Our reportable segment’s revenue streams are dependent upon regulated rate recovery, which  is a primary factor in how we identify operating segments.   For information on our reportable business segment’s"
"revenues, significant expenses, net income,  assets, and other reportable segment items, see the APS’s Consolidated Income Statements, APS  Consolidated Balance Sheets, and APS Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.  The following tables  reconcile our reportable segment’s revenues, significant expenses, net income, and assets to the Pinnacle  West Consolidated amounts (dollars in millions):  Year Ended December 31,   2024 2023 2022 Regulated  Electricity  Segment Other  Pinnacle  West"
"Consolidated Regulated  Electricity  Segment Other  Pinnacle  West  Consolidated Regulated  Electricity  Segment Other  Pinnacle  West  Consolidated Operating Revenues $  5,125 $  — $  5,125 $  4,696 $  — $  4,696 $  4,324 $  — $  4,324  Fuel & Purchase  Power    (1,823)   —   (1,823)   (1,793)   —   (1,793)   (1,629)   —   (1,629)  Operations &  Maintenance   (1,159)   (6)   (1,165)   (1,044)   (15)   (1,059)   (974)   (13)   (987)  Depreciation &  Amortization    (895)   —   (895)   (794)   —"
"(794)   (753)   —   (753)  Taxes other than  income taxes    (227)   —   (227)   (224)   —   (224)   (220)   —   (220)  Pension and other  postretirement non- service credits, net   49   —   49   42   (1)   41   99   (1)   98  Other income and  expenses, net (a)   28   22   50   60   —   60   22   (23)   (1)  Interest expense and  costs   (312)   (65)   (377)   (285)   (46)   (331)   (236)   (20)   (256)  Income Taxes   (127)   16   (111)   (94)   17   (77)   (91)   16   (75)  Less: income"
"related  to noncontrolling  interest   (17)   —   (17)   (17)   —   (17)   (17)   —   (17)  Net Income (loss)  $  642 $ (33) $  609 $  547 $ (45) $  502 $  525 $ (41) $  484  (a)      See Note 16 for additional details regarding other income and other expenses.  Other income includes allowance for equity  funds used during construction, see the APS Consolidated Income Statements.  December 31, 2024 December 31, 2023 Regulated  Electricity  Segment Other PNW  Consolidated Regulated  Electricity"
"Segment Other PNW  Consolidated Total Assets $  25,988 $  115 $  26,103  $  24,516 $  145 $  24,661  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             121  Preferred Stock At December 31, 2024, Pinnacle West had 10 million shares of serial preferred stock authorized  with no par value, none of which was outstanding, and APS had 15,535,000 shares of various types of  preferred stock authorized with $25, $50, and $100 par values, none of which was outstanding. 2."
"Revenue  Sources of Revenue The following table provides detail of Pinnacle West’s consolidated revenue disaggregated by  revenue sources (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Retail Electric Service Residential $  2,562,822 $  2,289,196 $  2,046,111  Non-Residential   2,334,925   2,048,416   1,767,616  Wholesale Energy Sales   96,857   208,985   383,126  Transmission Services for Others   119,038   138,631   116,628  Other Sources   11,273   10,763   10,904  Total"
"Operating Revenues $  5,124,915 $  4,695,991 $  4,324,385  Retail Electric Revenue.  All of Pinnacle West’s retail electric revenue is generated by APS.   Retail electric revenue is generated by the sale of electricity to our regulated customers within the  authorized service territory at tariff rates approved by the ACC and based on customer usage.  Revenues  related to the sale of electricity are generally recognized when service is rendered, or electricity is delivered  to customers.  The"
"billing of electricity sales to individual customers is based on the reading of their  meters.  We obtain customers’ meter data on a systematic basis throughout the month, and generally bill  customers within a month from when service was provided.  Customers are generally required to pay for  services within 21 days of when the services are billed.  See “Allowance for Doubtful Accounts”  discussion below for additional details regarding payment terms. Wholesale Energy Sales and Transmission"
"Services for Others.  Revenues from wholesale energy  sales and transmission services for others represent energy and transmission sales to wholesale customers.   These activities primarily consist of managing fuel and purchased power risks in connection with the cost  of serving our retail customers’ energy requirements.  We may also sell into the wholesale markets  generation that is not needed for APS’s retail load.  Our wholesale activities and tariff rates are regulated  by FERC. Revenue"
"Activities Our revenues primarily consist of activities that are classified as revenues from contracts with  customers.  We derive our revenues from contracts with customers primarily from sales of electricity to our  regulated retail customers.  Revenues from contracts with customers also include wholesale and  transmission activities.  Our revenues from contracts with customers for the year ended December 31,  2024, 2023 and 2022 were $5,073 million, $4,651 million, and $4,302 million,"
"respectively. Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             122  We have certain revenues that do not meet the specific accounting criteria to be classified as  revenues from contracts with customers.  For the year ended December 31, 2024, 2023, and 2022 our  revenues that do not qualify as revenue from contracts with customers were $52 million, $45 million, and  $22 million, respectively.  This amount includes revenues related to certain regulatory cost"
"recovery  mechanisms that are considered alternative revenue programs.  We recognize revenue associated with  alternative revenue programs when specific events permitting recognition are completed.  Certain amounts  associated with alternative revenue programs will subsequently be billed to customers; however, we do not  reclassify billed amounts into revenue from contracts with customers.  See Note 3 for a discussion of our  regulatory cost recovery mechanisms. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts"
"The allowance for doubtful accounts represents our best estimate of accounts receivable and  accrued unbilled revenues that will ultimately be uncollectible due to credit loss risk.  The allowance  includes a write-off component that is calculated by applying an estimated write-off factor to retail electric  revenues.  The write-off factor used to estimate uncollectible accounts is based upon consideration of  historical collections experience, the current and forecasted economic environment,"
"changes to our  collection policies, and management’s best estimate of future collections success.  We continue to monitor  the impacts of our disconnection policies, payment arrangements, among other considerations impacting  our estimated write-off factor, and allowance for doubtful accounts.  The following table provides a rollforward of Pinnacle West’s allowance for doubtful accounts  (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Balance at beginning of period $  22,433 $"
"23,778 $  25,354  Bad debt expense   35,799   23,399   17,006  Actual write-offs   (33,383)   (24,744)   (18,582)  Balance at end of period $  24,849 $  22,433 $  23,778  3.  Regulatory Matters APS expects to file an application with the ACC for its next general rate case mid-year 2025 and is  continuing to evaluate the timing of such filing. 2022 Retail Rate Case  APS filed an application with the ACC on October 28, 2022 (the “2022 Rate Case”) seeking an  increase in annual retail base rates."
"On January 25, 2024, an Administrative Law Judge issued a Recommended Opinion and Order  (“ROO”) in the 2022 Rate Case, as corrected on February 6, 2024 (the “2022 Rate Case ROO”).  The 2022  Rate Case ROO recommended, among other things, (i) a $523.1 million increase in the annual base rate  revenue requirement, (ii) a 9.55% return on equity, (iii) a 0.25% return on the increment of fair value rate  base greater than original cost, (iv) an effective fair value rate of return of 4.36%, (v) 12"
"months of post- Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             123  test year plant and the inclusion of the Four Corners Effluent Limitations Guideline (“ELG”) project, (vi)  the approval of APS’s System Reliability Benefit (“SRB”) proposal with certain procedural and other  modifications, (vii) no additional Coal Community Transition (“CCT”) funding, (viii) a 5.0% return on the  prepaid pension asset and a return of 5.35% on the OPEB liability, and (ix) no"
"disallowances on APS’s  coal contracts.   The 2022 Rate Case ROO also recommended a number of changes to existing adjustors, including  (i) the approval of modified DSM performance incentives and the requested DSM transfer to base rates, (ii)  the retention of $1.9 million of Renewable Energy Adjustment Charge (“REAC”) in the adjustor rather  than base rates, (iii) a partial transfer of $27.1 million of LFCR funds to base rates, and (iv) the adoption of  an increase in the annual PSA cap to"
"$0.006/kWh.   On February 22, 2024, the ACC approved a number of amendments to the 2022 Rate Case ROO  that resulted in, among other things, (i) an approximately $491.7 million increase in the annual base  revenue requirement, (ii) a 9.55% return on equity, (iii) a 0.25% return on the increment of fair value rate  base greater than original cost, (iv) an effective fair value rate of return of 4.39%, (v) a return set at the  Company’s weighted average cost of capital on the net prepaid pension"
"asset and net other post- employment benefit liability in rate base, (vi) an adjustment to generation maintenance and outage expense  to reflect a more reasonable level of test year costs, (vii) approval of the SRB mechanism with  modifications to customer notifications, procedural timelines and the inclusion of any qualifying  technology and fuel source bid received through an all-source request for proposal (“ASRFP”), and (viii)  recovery of all DSM costs through the DSM Adjustment Charge"
"(“DSMAC”) rather than through base  rates. The ACC’s decision results in an expected total net annual revenue increase for APS of  approximately $253.4 million and a roughly 8% increase to the typical residential customer’s bill.  The  ACC issued the final order for the 2022 Rate Case on March 5, 2024, with the new rates becoming  effective for all service rendered on or after March 8, 2024. Six intervenors and the Attorney General of Arizona requested rehearing on various issues included  in"
"the ACC’s decision, such as the grid access charge (“GAC”) for solar customers, the SRB, and CCT  funding.  On April 15, 2024, the ACC granted, in part, the rehearing applications of the Attorney General,  Arizona Solar Energy Industries Association, Solar Energy Industries Association, and Vote Solar  specifically to review whether the GAC rate is just and reasonable, including whether it should be higher or  lower, whether the GAC rate constitutes a discriminatory fee to solar customers, and"
"whether omission of a  GAC charge is discriminatory to non-solar customers.  All other applications for rehearing were denied.     A limited rehearing was held October 28 through November 1.  Following the limited rehearing, an  Administrative Law Judge issued a ROO (the “Limited Rehearing ROO”) on December 3, 2024.  The  Limited Rehearing ROO recommended affirming the GAC as just and reasonable and that the GAC is not  discriminatory to solar customers and the absence of a GAC is not"
"discriminatory to non-solar customers.   On December 17, 2024, the ACC approved the Limited Rehearing ROO with an amendment that requires  APS in its next rate case to propose a revenue allocation based on a site-load cost of service study in order  to bring further parity in revenue collection between solar and non-solar customers.  SEIA, AriSEIA, Vote  Solar, the Arizona Attorney General, and two individual customers have filed requests for rehearing of the  Commission’s December 17, 2024"
"decision on the rehearing.  The Commission has taken no action on  these requests.  In addition, each of these parties have subsequently filed notices of appeal to the Arizona  Court of Appeals seeking review of the Commission’s decisions regarding the GAC and on rehearing.   APS cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings. Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             124  2019 Retail Rate Case  On October 31, 2019, APS filed an application with the ACC"
"for an annual increase in retail base  rates (the “2019 Rate Case”).  On August 2, 2021, an Administrative Law Judge issued a ROO in the 2019  Rate Case (the “2019 Rate Case ROO”) and issued corrections on September 10 and September 20, 2021. On November 2, 2021, the ACC approved the 2019 Rate Case ROO, with various amendments,  that resulted in, among other things, (i) a return on equity of 8.70%, which included a 20 basis points  penalty; (ii) the recovery of the deferral and rate base effects"
"of the operating costs and construction of the  Four Corners selective catalytic reduction (“SCR”) project, with the exception of $215.5 million (see “Four  Corners SCR Cost Recovery” below); (iii) the CCT plan including the following components: (a) a  payment of $1 million to the Hopi Tribe within 60 days of the 2019 Rate Case decision, (b) a payment of  $10 million over three years to the Navajo Nation, (c) a payment of $0.5 million to the Navajo County  communities within 60 days of the 2019"
"Rate Case decision, (d) up to $1.25 million for electrification of  homes and businesses on the Hopi reservation, and (e) up to $1.25 million for the electrification of homes  and businesses on the Navajo Nation reservation; and (iv) a change in the residential on-peak time-of-use  period from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. to 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. Monday through Friday, excluding holidays.  The 2019  Rate Case ROO, as amended, resulted in a total annual revenue decrease for APS of $4.8 million,  excluding"
"temporary payments and expenditures, under the CCT plan.   Consistent with the 2019 Rate Case decision, APS completed the following payments that are  being recovered through rates related to the CCT: (i) $10 million to the Navajo Nation; (ii) $0.5 million to  the Navajo County communities; and (iii) $1 million to the Hopi Tribe.  Consistent with APS’s  commitment to the impacted communities, APS has also completed the following payments: (i)  $1.5 million to the Navajo Nation for CCT; (ii) $1.1"
"million to the Navajo County communities for CCT  and economic development; and (iii) $1.25 million to the Hopi Tribe for CCT and economic development.   The ACC also authorized $1.25 million to be spent for electrification of homes and businesses on each of  the Navajo Nation and Hopi reservations.  Expenditure of the recoverable funds for electrification of  homes and businesses on the Navajo Nation and the Hopi reservations is contingent upon completion of a  census of the unelectrified homes"
"and businesses in each that are also within APS service territory.  The  census work was completed in November 2022 and disbursement of the funds for electrification of homes  and businesses is planned to be finalized after discussions with the Navajo Nation and the Hopi Tribe are  completed.  On February 22, 2024, the ACC voted to not approve any further CCT funding. APS filed a Notice of Direct Appeal to the Arizona Court of Appeals on December 17, 2021  requesting review of certain aspects of"
"the 2019 Rate Case.  On March 6, 2023, the Court issued its opinion  in this matter, affirming in part and reversing in part the ACC’s decision in the 2019 Rate Case.  The Court  vacated the 20 basis points penalty included in the ACC’s allowed return on equity, as the Court  determined the use of customer service metrics to justify the reduction exceeded the ACC’s ratemaking  authority.  Additionally, the Court vacated the disallowance of $215.5 million of APS’s Four Corners SCR  investment."
"The Court remanded the issue to the ACC for further proceedings.   On June 14, 2023, APS and the ACC Legal Division filed a joint resolution with the ACC to allow  recovery of the $215.5 million in costs related to the installation of the Four Corners SCR, a reversal of the  20 basis points reduction to APS’s return on equity from 8.9% to 8.7% as a result of the 2019 Rate Case  decision, and recovery of $59.6 million in revenue lost by APS between December 2021 and June 20,  2023.  On June 21,"
"2023, the ACC approved the joint resolution and proposals therein for recovery through  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             125  the Court Resolution Surcharge (“CRS”) mechanism, which became effective on July 1, 2023.  See “Court  Resolution Surcharge” below for more information.   Regulatory Lag Docket On January 5, 2023, the ACC opened a new docket to explore the possibility of modifications to  the ACC’s historical test year rules.  The ACC"
"requested comments and held two workshops exploring  ways to reduce regulatory lag, including alternative ratemaking structures such as future test years, hybrid  test years, and formula rates.  On December 3, 2024, the ACC approved a policy statement regarding  formula rate plans.  The policy statement allows regulated utilities to propose formula rate plans in future  rate cases.  Proposed plans must be based on a historical test year, include an annual update with a true-up  and an earnings"
"test to ensure a utility earns within a 20 basis points band of its authorized return on equity.   Proposed plans should also include an annual meeting and challenge periods for stakeholder feedback.   Utilities that implement formula rates also must file a full rate case at least every five years unless an  alternate schedule is set by the ACC.  APS cannot predict the outcome of this matter. Cost Recovery Mechanisms   APS has received regulatory decisions that allow for more timely recovery of"
"certain costs outside  of a general retail rate case through the following recovery mechanisms.  See “2022 Retail Rate Case”  above for modifications of adjustment mechanisms in the 2022 Rate Case.   Renewable Energy Standard.  In 2006, the ACC approved the RES.  Under the RES, electric  utilities that are regulated by the ACC must supply an increasing percentage of their retail electric energy  sales from eligible renewable resources, including, for example, solar, wind, biomass, biogas and"
"geothermal technologies.  In order to achieve these requirements, the ACC allows APS to include a RES  surcharge as part of customer bills to recover the approved amounts for use on renewable energy projects.   Each year, APS is required to file a five-year implementation plan with the ACC and seek approval for  funding the upcoming year’s RES budget. In June 2021, the ACC adopted a clean energy rules package which would require APS to meet  certain clean energy standards and technology"
"procurement mandates, obtain approval for its action plan  included in its Integrated Resource Plan (“IRP”), and seek cost recovery in a rate process.  Since the  adopted clean energy rules differed substantially from the original ROO, supplemental rulemaking  procedures were required before the rules could become effective.  On January 26, 2022, the ACC reversed  its prior decision and declined to send the final draft energy rules through the rulemaking process.  Instead,  the ACC opened a new"
"docket to consider ASRFP requirements and the IRP process.  See “Energy  Modernization Plan” below for more information. On July 1, 2021, APS filed its 2022 RES Implementation Plan and proposed a budget of  approximately $93.1 million.  APS filed an amended 2022 RES Implementation Plan on December 9,  2021, with a proposed budget of $100.5 million.  This budget included funding for programs to comply  with the decision in the 2019 Rate Case, including the ACC authorizing spending $20 million to"
"$30 million in capital costs for the continuation of the APS Solar Communities program each year for a  period of three years from the effective date of the 2019 Rate Case decision.  APS’s budget proposal  supported existing approved projects and commitments and requested a waiver of the RES residential and  non-residential distributed energy requirements for 2022.  On May 18, 2022, the ACC approved the 2022  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             126"
"RES Implementation Plan, including an amendment requiring a stakeholder working group convene to  develop a community solar program for the ACC’s consideration at a future date.   On July 1, 2022, APS filed its 2023 RES Implementation Plan and proposed a budget of  approximately $86.2 million, excluding any funding offsets.  This budget contained funding for programs  to comply with ACC-approved initiatives, including the 2019 Rate Case decision.  APS’s budget proposal  supported existing"
"approved projects and commitments and requested a waiver of the RES residential and  non-residential distributed energy requirements for 2023.  On November 10, 2022, the ACC approved the  2023 RES Implementation Plan, including APS’s requested waiver of the distributed energy requirement  for 2023. On June 30, 2023, APS filed its 2024 RES Implementation Plan and proposed a budget of  approximately $95.1 million.  APS’s budget proposal supports existing approved projects and  commitments and"
"requests a waiver of the RES renewable energy credit requirements to demonstrate  compliance with the Annual Renewable Energy Requirement for 2023.  The ACC has not yet ruled on the  2024 RES Implementation Plan.  APS cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding. On July 1, 2024, APS filed its 2025 RES Implementation Plan and proposed a budget of  approximately $92.7 million.  APS’s budget proposal supports existing approved projects and  commitments and requests a waiver of the RES renewable"
"energy credit requirements to demonstrate  compliance with the Annual Renewable Energy Requirement for 2024.  The ACC has not yet ruled on the  2025 RES Implementation Plan.  APS cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding.  On June 14, 2021, APS filed an application for approval of its Green Power Partners Program  (“GPP”).  On September 1, 2021, the ACC approved the application.  On June 28, 2024, APS filed an  application for approval of modifications to the GPP and requested a renewable"
"generation renewable  energy credits waiver.  The ACC has not yet ruled on the GPP application.  APS cannot predict the  outcome of this proceeding.  Demand Side Management Adjustor Charge.  The ACC Electric Energy Efficiency Standards  require APS to submit a DSM Implementation Plan annually for review and approval by the ACC.   Verified energy savings from APS’s resource savings projects can be counted toward compliance with the  Electric Energy Efficiency Standards; however, APS is not"
"allowed to count savings from systems savings  projects toward determination of the achievement of performance incentives, nor may APS include savings  from these system savings projects in the calculation of its LFCR mechanism.  See below for discussion of  the LFCR. On December 17, 2021, APS filed its 2022 DSM Implementation Plan in accordance with an  extension granted in 2021.  The 2022 DSM Plan requested a budget of $78.4 million and represents an  increase of approximately $14 million in"
"DSM spending above 2021.  On November 10, 2022, the ACC  approved the 2022 DSM Implementation Plan, including a proposed performance incentive. On June 1, 2022, APS filed its 2023 Transportation Electrification Plan (“2023 TE Plan”).  The  2023 TE Plan detailed APS’s efforts to support transportation electrification in Arizona, including the Take  Charge AZ Pilot Program and customer education and outreach related to transportation electrification.   Subsequently, APS filed an amended 2023 TE"
"Plan on November 30, 2022, that included a request for a  $5 million budget.  On December 12, 2023, the ACC approved the 2023 TE Plan without including the  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             127  Take Charge AZ Program and its budget going forward, but allowed APS to complete projects already  underway.  Additionally, the ACC discontinued the residential EV SmartCharger rebate and approved  modifications to the EV rate plan. On November 30, 2022,"
"APS filed its 2023 DSM Implementation Plan, which requested a budget  of $88 million.  On May 31, 2023, APS filed an amended 2023 DSM Implementation Plan.  The amended  plan maintained the originally proposed budget of $88 million.  Subsequent to filing the amended 2023  DSM Implementation Plan and prior to the ACC approving it, on November 30, 2023, APS filed its 2024  DSM Implementation Plan.  The 2024 DSM Implementation Plan requested a total budget of $91.5 million  and incorporated all"
"elements of the amended 2023 DSM Implementation Plan as well as the 2024 TE  Implementation Plan.  On April 26, 2024, APS filed an amendment to the 2024 DSM Implementation Plan.   The amended 2024 DSM Implementation Plan includes an updated budget of $90.9 million to reflect  removal of incentive funds for the Level 2 Smart Charger rebate within the EV Charging Demand  Management Pilot, an update on the performance incentive calculation, and the withdrawal of tranches two  and three of the"
"residential battery pilot.  The ACC has not yet ruled on the amended 2024 DSM  Implementation Plan.  In a letter filed May 31, 2024, APS said it would not file a 2025 DSM  Implementation Plan pending ACC review of the amended 2024 DSM Implementation Plan.  APS cannot  predict the outcome of this proceeding. Power Supply Adjustor Mechanism and Balance.  The PSA provides for the adjustment of retail  rates to reflect variations primarily in retail fuel and purchased power costs.  The PSA is"
"subject to  specified parameters and procedures, including the following: • APS records deferrals for recovery or refund to the extent actual retail fuel and purchased  power costs vary from the Base Fuel Rate; • an adjustment to the PSA rate is made annually each February 1 (unless otherwise approved by  the ACC) and goes into effect automatically unless suspended by the ACC; • the PSA uses a forward-looking estimate of fuel and purchased power costs to set the annual  PSA rate, which is"
"reconciled to actual costs experienced for each PSA Year (February 1  through January 31) (see the following bullet point); • the PSA rate includes (a) a “forward component,” under which APS recovers or refunds  differences between expected fuel and purchased power costs for the upcoming calendar year  and those embedded in the Base Fuel Rate; (b) a “historical component,” under which  differences between actual fuel and purchased power costs and those recovered or refunded  through the"
"combination of the Base Fuel Rate and the forward component are recovered  during the next PSA Year; and (c) a “transition component,” under which APS may seek mid- year PSA changes due to large variances between actual fuel and purchased power costs and  the combination of the Base Fuel Rate and the forward component; and • the PSA rate may not be increased or decreased more than $0.006 per kWh in a year without  permission of the ACC. Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL"
"STATEMENTS             128  The following table shows the changes in the deferred fuel and purchased power regulatory asset  for 2024 and 2023 (dollars in thousands):   Year Ended  December 31,   2024 2023 Balance at beginning of period $ 463,195 $ 460,561  Deferred fuel and purchased power costs  250,288  549,877  Amounts charged to customers  (425,886)  (547,243)  Balance at end of period $ 287,597 $ 463,195  On November 30, 2021, APS filed its PSA rate for the PSA year beginning February 1,"
"2022.  That  rate was $0.007544 per kWh, which consisted of a forward component of $(0.004842) per kWh and a  historical component of $0.012386 per kWh.  The 2022 PSA rate was a $0.004 per kWh increase compared  to the 2021 PSA year, which is the maximum permitted under the Plan of Administration for the PSA.   These rates went into effect as filed on February 1, 2022. On April 1, 2022, the ACC filed a final report of its third-party audit findings regarding APS’s fuel  and purchased power costs"
"for the period January 2019 through January 2021.  The report contained an in- depth review of APS’s fuel and purchased power contracts, its monthly fuel accounting activities, its  forecasting and dispatching procedures, and its monthly PSA filings, among other fuel-related activities.   The report found that APS’s fuel processing accounting practices, dispatching procedures, and procedures  for hedging activity were reasonable and appropriate.  The report included several recommendations for"
"the ACC’s consideration, including review of current contracts, maintenance schedules, and certain  changes and improvements to the schedules in APS’s monthly PSA filings.  On December 27, 2022, ACC  Staff filed a proposed order supporting adoption of the recommendations in the third-party audit report, and  the ACC approved the proposed order on February 22, 2023. On November 30, 2022, APS filed its PSA rate for the PSA year beginning February 1, 2023.  In  this filing, APS also requested that"
"one of three different options be adopted to address the growing  undercollected PSA balance.  On February 23, 2023, the ACC approved an overall PSA rate of $0.019074  per kWh, which consisted of a forward component of $(0.005527) per kWh, a historical component of  $0.013071 per kWh and a transition component of $0.011530 per kWh, that will continue until further  notice of the ACC.  The rate became effective with the first billing cycle in March 2023 and is designed to  bring the PSA balancing"
"account to near-zero over a 24-month period.  On November 30, 2023, APS  notified the ACC that it will be maintaining the current PSA rate of $0.019074 per kWh and an updated  PSA adjustment schedule would not be filed at that time.  In Decision No. 79293 in the 2022 Rate Case,  the ACC approved a permanent increase in the annual PSA adjustor rate cap from $0.004 per kWh to  $0.006 per kWh and a requirement that APS report to the ACC for possible action when the overall PSA  balance reaches $100"
"million.  As part of the 2022 Rate Case decision, the ACC also approved an overall  PSA rate of $0.011977 per kWh, which consisted of a forward component of $(0.012624) per kWh, a  historical component of $0.013071 per kWh, and a transition component of $0.011530 per kWh.  The  overall PSA rate was reduced to offset an increase in base fuel prices.  The rate became effective on    March 8, 2024. On November 27, 2024, APS filed its PSA rate for the PSA year beginning February 1, 2025.  The"
"overall PSA rate of $0.013977 per kWh consists of a forward component of $(0.000281) per kWh, a  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             129  historical component of $0.008728 per kWh, and a transition component of $0.005530.  This overall PSA  rate is an increase of $0.002 per kWh over the prior overall rate approved in the 2022 Rate Case decision,  and it is below the annual PSA rate increase cap of $0.006 per kWh.  On February 5, 2025, the ACC voted"
"to approve this request, with a rate effective date of the first billing cycle in March 2025. Environmental Improvement Surcharge.  On March 5, 2024, the ACC approved the elimination  of the EIS, and the surcharge is no longer in effect.  The EIS permitted APS to recover the capital carrying  costs (rate of return, depreciation and taxes) plus incremental operations and maintenance expenses  associated with environmental improvements made outside of a test year to comply with environmental"
"standards set by federal, state, tribal, or local laws and regulations.  APS’s February 1, 2023, EIS  application requested an increase in the charge to $14.7 million, or $3.3 million over the prior-period  charge.  On March 10, 2023, APS filed an amended application requesting an EIS charge of $4.0 million, a  decrease of $10.7 million from the February EIS request, and a decrease of $7.5 million from the prior- period charge.  The revised 2023 EIS became effective with the first billing cycle"
"in April 2023; however,  with the elimination of the surcharge, it is no longer in effect, and any remaining amounts are being  collected through base rates.   Transmission Rates, Transmission Cost Adjustor and Other Transmission Matters.  APS’s retail  transmission charges’ formula rate is updated each year effective June 1 on the basis of APS’s actual cost  of service, as disclosed in APS’s FERC Form 1 report for the previous fiscal year.  Items to be updated  include actual capital"
"expenditures made as compared with previous projections, transmission revenue  credits and other items.  APS reviews the proposed formula rate filing amounts with the ACC Staff.  Any  items or adjustments which are not agreed to by APS and the ACC Staff can remain in dispute until settled  or litigated with FERC.  Settlement or litigated resolution of disputed issues could require an extended  period of time and could have a significant effect on the Retail Transmission Charges because any"
"adjustment, though applied prospectively, may be calculated to account for previously over- or under- collected amounts.  The resolution of proposed adjustments can result in significant volatility in the  revenues to be collected.  Effective June 1, 2022, APS’s annual wholesale transmission revenue requirement for all users of  its transmission system decreased by approximately $33 million for the 12-month period beginning June 1,  2022, in accordance with the FERC-approved formula.  Of this"
"net amount, wholesale customer rates  decreased by approximately $6.4 million and retail customer rates would have decreased by approximately  $26.6 million.  However, since changes in Retail Transmission Charges are reflected through the TCA after  consideration of transmission recovery in retail base rates and the ACC-approved balancing account, the  retail revenue requirement decreased by $2.4 million, resulting in a reduction to the residential rate and  increases to commercial rates.  An"
"adjustment to APS’s retail rates to recover FERC-approved  transmission charges went into effect automatically on June 1, 2022. Effective June 1, 2023, APS’s annual wholesale transmission revenue requirement for all users of  its transmission system increased by approximately $34.7 million for the 12-month period beginning     June 1, 2023, in accordance with the FERC-approved formula.  Of this net amount, wholesale customer  rates increased by approximately $20.7 million and retail customer"
"rates would have increased by  approximately $14 million.  However, since changes in Retail Transmission Charges are reflected through  the TCA after consideration of transmission recovery in retail base rates and the ACC-approved balancing  account, the retail revenue requirement decreased by $10 million, resulting in reductions to the residential  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             130  and commercial rates.  An adjustment to APS’s retail rates to"
"recover FERC-approved transmission  charges went into effect automatically on June 1, 2023. Effective June 1, 2024, APS’s annual wholesale transmission revenue requirement for all users of  its transmission system increased by approximately $27.4 million for the 12-month period beginning     June 1, 2024 in accordance with the FERC-approved formula.  Of this net amount, wholesale customer  rates increased by approximately $16.6 million and retail customer rates would have increased by"
"approximately $10.8 million.  However, since changes in Retail Transmission Charges are reflected  through the TCA after consideration of transmission recovery in retail base rates and the ACC-approved  balancing account, the retail revenue requirement increased by $8.8 million, resulting in an increase to  residential and commercial rates over 3 MW and a decrease to commercial rates less than or equal to 3  MW.  An adjustment to APS’s retail rates to recover FERC-approved transmission charges"
"went into effect  automatically on June 1, 2024. Lost Fixed Cost Recovery Mechanism.  The LFCR mechanism permits APS to recover on an after- the-fact basis a portion of its fixed costs that would otherwise have been collected by APS in the kWh sales  lost due to APS energy efficiency programs and to DG such as rooftop solar arrays.  The adjustment to the  LFCR has a year-over-year cap of 1% of retail revenues.  Any amounts left unrecovered in a particular year  because of this cap can be carried"
"over for recovery in a future year.  The kWhs lost from energy efficiency  are based on a third-party evaluation of APS’s energy efficiency programs.  DG sales losses are determined  from the metered output from the DG units.   On February 15, 2022, APS filed its 2022 annual LFCR adjustment, requesting that effective     May 1, 2022, the annual LFCR recovery amount be increased to $59.1 million (a $32.5 million increase  from previous levels, which was inclusive of a $11.8 million balance from"
"APS’s 2021 LFCR filing).  On  May 9, 2022, the ACC Staff filed its revised report and proposed order regarding APS’s 2022 LFCR  adjustment, concluding that APS calculated the adjustment in accordance with its Plan of Administration.   On May 18, 2022, the ACC approved the 2022 LFCR adjustment, with a rate effective date of June 1,  2022. On February 15, 2023, APS filed a letter to the ACC docket stating that, in accordance with  Decision No. 78585, APS and ACC Staff have agreed to move the"
"filing date for the annual LFCR  adjustment to July 31 each year.  On September 5, 2023, APS filed an updated LFCR Plan of  Administration, which was approved by ACC Staff on December 8, 2023.  On July 31, 2023, APS filed its  2023 annual LFCR adjustment, requesting that the annual LFCR recovery amount be increased to  $68.7 million (a $9.6 million increase from previous levels).  On October 19, 2023, a request for  intervention was filed, which was granted.  Consistent with an October 25, 2023,"
"Procedural Order, the  parties met and conferred and conducted limited discovery.  As a result of Decision No. 79293 in the 2022  Rate Case, APS transferred $27.1 million from the LFCR to base rates. On March 8, 2024, APS filed conforming LFCR schedules to incorporate changes required as a  result of Decision No. 79293 in the 2022 Rate Case.  On April 9, 2024, the ACC approved the 2023 annual  LFCR adjustment, with new rates effective in the first billing cycle of May 2024. On June 5, 2024, APS"
"filed a revised LFCR Plan of Administration in accordance with Decision  No. 79293.  The ACC approved the revised Plan of Administration on October 8, 2024. Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             131  On July 31, 2024, APS filed its 2024 annual LFCR adjustment, requesting that effective    November 1, 2024, the annual LFCR recovery amount be increased to $49.6 million (an $8 million  increase from previous levels).  On December 3, 2024, the ACC approved"
"the 2024 annual LFCR  adjustment, with new rates effective in the first billing cycle of January 2025. Tax Expense Adjustor Mechanism.  The TEAM helps address potential federal income tax reform  and enable the pass-through of certain income tax effects to customers.  The TEAM expressly applies to  APS’s retail rates with the exception of a small subset of customers taking service under specially- approved tariffs.  As part of the 2019 Rate Case decision, there remains small true up balances in"
"the  TEAM balancing account.  In the 2022 Rate Case, these true up balances are being recovered and  amortized through 2032.     Court Resolution Surcharge.  The CRS mechanism permits APS to recover certain costs  associated with investments and expenses for APS’s purchase and installation of SCR technology for Four  Corners Units 4 and 5 and a change in APS’s allowable return on equity as required by the Arizona Court  of Appeals and approved by the ACC in Decision No. 78979.  The CRS went into"
"effect on July 1, 2023, at  a rate of $0.00175 per kWh.  The rate is designed to recover $59.6 million in revenue lost by APS between  December 2021 and June 20, 2023, and the prospective recovery of ongoing costs related to the SCR  investments and expense and the allowable return on equity difference in current base rates.  The portion of  the CRS representing the recovery of the $59.6 million of lost revenue between December 2021 and      June 20, 2023, $26.2 million of which has been"
"collected as of December 31, 2024, will cease upon full  collection of the lost revenue.  Additionally, the CRS tariff was updated to remove the return on equity  component and account for SCR-related depreciation and deferral adjustments approved in Decision No.  79293 in the 2022 Rate Case.  See “2019 Retail Rate Case” above for more information.   Net Metering The ACC’s decision from APS’s 2017 rate case (the “2017 Rate Case Decision”) provides that  payments by utilities for energy exported"
"to the grid from residential DG solar facilities will be determined  using a Resource Comparison Proxy (“RCP”) methodology as determined in the ACC’s generic Value and  Cost of Distributed Generation docket.  RCP is a method that is based on the most recent five-year rolling  average price that APS incurs for utility-scale solar photovoltaic projects.  The price established by this  RCP method is updated annually (between general retail rate cases) but cannot be decreased by more than  10% per"
"year.   On April 29, 2022, APS filed an application to decrease the RCP price from 9.4 cents per kWh,  which had been in effect since October 1, 2021, to 8.46 cents per kWh, reflecting a 10% annual reduction,  to become effective September 1, 2022.  On July 12, 2022, the ACC approved the RCP as filed. On May 1, 2023, APS filed an application for revisions to the RCP.  This application would  decrease the RCP price to 7.619 cents per kWh, reflecting a 10% annual reduction, to become effective"
"September 1, 2023.  On August 25, 2023, the ACC approved the RCP as filed. On May 1, 2024, APS filed an application for revisions to the RCP.  This application would  decrease the RCP price to 6.857 cents per kWh, reflecting a 10% annual reduction, to become effective  September 1, 2024.  On August 13, 2024, the ACC approved the RCP as filed.   Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             132  On October 11, 2023, the ACC voted to open a new general docket to"
"hold a hearing to explore  potential future changes to the 10% annual reduction cap in the solar export rate paid by utilities to  distributed solar customers for exports to the grid and the 10-year rate lock period for those customers that  were approved in the ACC’s Value and Cost of Distributed Generation Docket.  A procedural conference  was held on November 1, 2023, to discuss the process going forward.  As a result of the procedural  conference, ACC Staff issued a request for information"
"to investigate the issues related to this matter.  A  status conference was held on March 20, 2024 to determine if ACC Staff is prepared to present a  recommendation on this matter at that time.  Stakeholders provided responses to the ACC Staff’s request  for information on March 21, 2024.  Another status conference took place on May 20, 2024 and ACC Staff  issued a request for additional information to investigate the issues related to the matter on May 31, 2024.   Stakeholders provided"
"responses to the ACC Staff’s request for additional information on July 1, 2024, and  on October 15, 2024, the ACC Staff filed a report finding that the RCP is working as intended and  recommending no changes to the RCP at this time.  The ACC Staff also recommended that the ACC close  the docket without a hearing or further action.  The ACC has not yet acted on the ACC Staff’s  recommendation, and APS cannot predict the outcome of this matter. Energy Modernization Plan  On May 26, 2023, the ACC"
"opened a new docket to review articles within the Arizona  Administrative Code related to Resource Planning, the Renewable Energy Standard and Tariff, and Electric  Energy Efficiency Standards.  On January 9, 2024, the ACC approved a rulemaking process for this matter.   During the ACC Open Meeting on February 6, 2024, the ACC approved motions to direct ACC Staff to  include recommendations to repeal the current Electric Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Standard  rules during the"
"rulemaking process.  On August 21, 2024, the ACC Staff filed separate reports for each set  of rules, including its recommendations to repeal the Electric Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy  Standard rules along with required preliminary economic, small business, and consumer impact statements.   APS and other interested parties have filed comments about the ACC Staff reports.  APS cannot predict the  outcome of this matter.  Integrated Resource Planning ACC rules require utilities to"
"develop triennial 15-year IRPs which describe how the utility plans to  serve customer load in the plan time frame.  The ACC reviews each utility’s IRP to determine if it meets  the necessary requirements and whether it should be acknowledged.  In February 2022, the ACC  acknowledged APS’s 2020 IRP filed on June 26, 2020.  The ACC also approved certain amendments to the  IRP process, including, setting an EES of 1.3% of retail sales annually (averaged over a three-year period)  and a demand-side"
"resource capacity of 35% of 2020 peak demand by January 1, 2030.   Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             133  On May 1, 2023, APS, Tucson Electric Power Company, and UNS Electric, Inc. filed a joint  request for an extension to file the IRPs from August 1, 2023, to November 1, 2023.  On June 21, 2023, the  ACC granted the extension.  As a result, APS filed its 2023 IRP on November 1, 2023.  On January 31,  2024, stakeholders filed comments regarding"
"the IRP, and APS filed its response to stakeholder comments  on May 31, 2024.  On July 31, 2024, the ACC held an IRP workshop where utilities and stakeholders  presented on the 2023 IRPs.  On October 8, 2024, the ACC acknowledged APS’s 2023 IRP and approved  certain amendments to the IRP process, including requirements for APS to demonstrate resource adequacy  prior to exiting Four Corners as well as analysis of impacts from western market participation and planned  resource requirements in the"
"next IRP.  See “Energy Modernization Plan” above for information regarding  proposed changes to the IRP filings.  Equity Infusions On October 27, 2023, APS filed a notice of intent to increase Pinnacle West’s equity in APS in  2024.  APS sought approval to receive from Pinnacle West in 2024 up to $500 million in additional equity  infusions above the previously authorized limit of $150 million annually.  The ACC approved the  increased equity infusion limit for 2024 on January 9, 2024. On April"
"19, 2024, APS submitted a request to the ACC to permanently modify Pinnacle West’s  permitted yearly equity infusions to equal up to 2.5% of APS’s consolidated assets each calendar year on a  three-year rolling average basis.  On December 17, 2024, the ACC issued a financing order that approved  an annual equity infusion allowance of 2.5% of APS’s consolidated assets on a three-year rolling average  basis. Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act Under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of"
"1978 (“PURPA”), qualifying facilities are  provided the right to sell energy and/or capacity to utilities and are granted relief from certain regulatory  burdens.  On December 17, 2019, the ACC mandated a minimum contract length of 18 years for qualifying  facilities over 100 kW in Arizona and established that the rate paid to qualifying facilities must be based on  the long-term avoided cost.  “Avoided cost” is generally defined as the price at which the utility could  purchase or produce the"
"same amount of power from sources other than the qualifying facility on a long- term basis.   Residential Electric Utility Customer Service Disconnections  In accordance with the ACC’s service disconnection rules, APS uses a calendar-based method to  suspend the disconnection of customers for nonpayment from June 1 through October 15 each year  (“Annual Disconnection Moratorium”).  Pursuant to an ACC order, customers with past due balances of  $75 or greater as of approximately one month prior"
"to the end of the Annual Disconnection Moratorium are  automatically placed on six-month payment arrangements.  In addition, APS voluntarily began waiving  late payment fees of its customers (“Late Fee Waivers”) on March 13, 2020.  Effective February 1, 2023,  late payment fees for residential customers were reinstated.  Late payment fees for commercial and  industrial customers were reinstated effective May 1, 2022.  Since the suspensions and moratoriums on  disconnections began, APS has"
"experienced an increase in bad debt expense and the related write-offs of  delinquent customer accounts.  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             134  Retail Electric Competition Rules On November 17, 2018, the ACC voted to re-examine the facilitation of a deregulated retail  electric market in Arizona.  On July 1 and July 2, 2019, ACC Staff issued a report and initial proposed  draft rules regarding possible modifications to the ACC’s retail electric"
"competition rules.  On February 10,  2020, two ACC Commissioners filed two sets of draft proposed retail electric competition rules.  On  February 12, 2020, ACC Staff issued its second report regarding possible modifications to the ACC’s retail  electric competition rules.  During a July 15, 2020, ACC Staff meeting, the ACC Commissioners discussed  the possible development of a retail competition pilot program, but no action was taken.  In April 2022, the  Arizona Legislature passed, and the"
"Governor signed a bill that repealed the electric deregulation law that  had been in place in Arizona since 1998.  On August 27, 2024, the ACC administratively closed this  docket due to inactivity and obsolescence.  Four Corners SCR Cost Recovery On December 29, 2017, in accordance with the 2017 Rate Case Decision, APS filed a Notice of  Intent to file its SCR Adjustment to permit recovery of costs associated with the installation of SCR  equipment at Four Corners Units 4 and 5.  APS filed the"
"SCR Adjustment request in April 2018.  The SCR  Adjustment request provided that there would be a $67.5 million annual revenue impact that would be  applied as a percentage of base rates for all applicable customers.  Also, as provided for in the 2017 Rate  Case Decision, APS requested that the adjustment become effective no later than January 1, 2019.  The  hearing for this matter occurred in September 2018.  At the hearing, APS accepted ACC Staff’s  recommendation of a lower annual revenue"
"impact of approximately $58.5 million.  The Administrative  Law Judge issued a ROO finding that the costs for the SCR project were prudently incurred and  recommending authorization of the $58.5 million annual revenue requirement related to the installation and  operation of the SCRs.  The ACC did not issue a decision on this matter.  APS included the costs for the  SCR project in the retail rate base in its 2019 Rate Case filing with the ACC.   On November 2, 2021, the 2019 Rate Case decision"
"was approved by the ACC allowing  approximately $194 million of SCR related plant investments and cost deferrals in rate base and to recover,  depreciate and amortize in rates based on an end-of-life assumption of July 2031.  The decision also  included a partial and combined disallowance of $215.5 million on the SCR investments and deferrals.   APS believes the SCR plant investments and related SCR cost deferrals were prudently incurred, and on  December 17, 2021, APS filed its Notice of Direct"
"Appeal at the Arizona Court of Appeals requesting  review of the $215.5 million disallowance.  The Arizona Court of Appeals heard oral arguments on  November 30, 2022.  On March 6, 2023, the Court of Appeals issued its order in the matter, vacating the  ACC’s disallowance of the SCR investment and remanding the matter back to the ACC for further review  in accordance with ACC rules and the order of the Court of Appeals.  On June 21, 2023, the ACC  approved a joint settlement filed by APS and the"
"ACC’s Legal Division that resolved all issues relating to  the 2019 Rate Case decision, including recovery of the cost of the Four Corners SCRs.  See above for  further discussion on the 2019 Rate Case decision.    Cholla  On September 11, 2014, APS announced that it would close Unit 2 of the Cholla Power Plant  (“Cholla”) and cease burning coal at the other APS-owned units (Units 1 and 3) at the plant by the  mid-2020s, if the EPA approved a compromise proposal offered by APS to meet required"
"environmental  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             135  and emissions standards and rules.  On April 14, 2015, the ACC approved APS’s plan to retire Unit 2,  without expressing any view on the future recoverability of APS’s remaining investment in the unit.  APS  closed Unit 2 on October 1, 2015.  In early 2017, EPA approved a final rule incorporating APS’s  compromise proposal, which took effect on April 26, 2017.  In December 2019, PacifiCorp"
"notified APS  that it planned to retire Cholla Unit 4 by the end of 2020 and the unit ceased operation in December 2020.   APS is required to cease burning coal at its remaining Cholla units by April 2025. Previously, APS estimated Cholla Unit 2’s end of life to be 2033.  APS has been recovering a  return on and of the net book value of the unit in base rates.  APS is allowed continued recovery of the net  book value of the unit and the unit’s decommissioning and other retirement-related costs,"
"$28.1 million as  of December 31, 2024, in addition to a return on its investment.  In accordance with GAAP, in the third  quarter of 2014, Unit 2’s remaining net book value was reclassified from property, plant and equipment to  a regulatory asset.  In accordance with the 2019 Rate Case decision, the regulatory asset is being amortized  through 2033. On August 14, 2024, APS filed a request with the ACC for a deferral order associated with  unrecovered book value and closure costs of the"
"remaining Cholla units.  This order would authorize APS  to defer, for future recovery in rates, both the expenses necessary to close and decommission coal-fired  power plant infrastructure at Cholla, including legally required site environmental remediation, CCR  corrective actions, the closure of CCR management facilities, and any unrecovered plant investment and  operating costs incurred through and after April 2025.  APS cannot predict the outcome of this matter. Navajo Plant  The Navajo"
"Plant ceased operations in November 2019.  The co-owners and the Navajo Nation  executed a lease extension on November 29, 2017, that allows for decommissioning activities to begin after  the plant ceased operations.  In accordance with GAAP, in the second quarter of 2017, APS’s remaining  net book value of its interest in the Navajo Plant was reclassified from property, plant and equipment to a  regulatory asset.  APS has been recovering a return on and of the net book value of its interest in"
"the Navajo plant in  base rates over its previously estimated life through 2026.  Pursuant to the 2019 Rate Case decision  described above, APS will be allowed continued recovery of the book value of its remaining investment in  the Navajo plant, $33.4 million as of December 31, 2024, in addition to a return on the net book value, with  the exception of 15% of the annual amortization expense in rates.  In addition, APS will be allowed  recovery of other costs related to retirement and closure,"
"including the Navajo coal reclamation regulatory  asset, $7.9 million as of December 31, 2024.  The disallowed recovery of 15% of the annual amortization  does not have a material impact on APS financial statements. Fire Mitigation On August 14, 2024, APS filed a request with the ACC for a deferral order that would authorize  APS to defer, for future recovery in rates, operations and maintenance expenses associated with wildfire  management, including increased insurance costs.  APS cannot"
"predict the outcome of this matter. Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             136  Regulatory Assets and Liabilities The detail of regulatory assets is as follows (dollars in thousands): December 31, Amortization  Through 2024 2023 Pension (a) $  750,976 $  696,476  Deferred fuel and purchased power (b) (c) 2025   287,597   463,195  Income taxes — AFUDC equity 2054   192,936   189,058  Ocotillo deferral 2034   114,775   128,636  SCR deferral (e) 2038"
"83,123   89,477  Lease incentives (g)   70,541   46,615  Retired power plant costs 2033   68,380   83,536  Deferred fuel and purchased power — mark-to-market (Note 15) 2027   42,275   120,214  FERC Transmission true up 2026   35,159   616  Income taxes — investment tax credit basis adjustment 2056   34,834   34,230  Deferred compensation 2036   33,108   33,972  Deferred property taxes 2027   23,918   32,488  Palo Verde VIEs (Note 17) 2046   20,611   20,772  Power supply adjustor - interest 2025"
"11,525   19,416  Active Union Medical Trust (f)   9,673   12,747  Mead-Phoenix transmission line contributions in aid of construction  (“CIAC”) 2050   8,384   8,716  Navajo coal reclamation 2026   7,905   10,883  Loss on reacquired debt 2038   6,682   7,965  Tax expense adjustor mechanism (b) 2031   4,534   5,190  Four Corners cost deferral 2024   —   7,922  Other Various   3,522   3,912  Total regulatory assets (d) $  1,810,458 $  2,016,036  Less: current regulatory assets $  420,969 $  625,757"
"Total non-current regulatory assets $  1,389,489 $  1,390,279  (a) This asset represents the future recovery of pension benefit obligations and expense through retail rates.  If these  costs are disallowed by the ACC, this regulatory asset would be charged to OCI and result in lower future  revenues.  As a result of the 2019 Rate Case decision, the amount authorized for inclusion in rate base was  determined using an averaging methodology, which resulted in a reduced return in retail rates.  The"
"2022 Rate  Case decision allows for the full return on the pension asset in rate base.  See Note 7 for further discussion. (b) See “Cost Recovery Mechanisms” discussion above. (c) Subject to a carrying charge. (d) There are no regulatory assets for which the ACC has allowed recovery of costs, but not allowed a return by  exclusion from rate base.  FERC rates are set using a formula rate as described in “Transmission Rates,  Transmission Cost Adjustor and Other Transmission Matters.” (e) See"
"“Four Corners SCR Cost Recovery” discussion above. (f) Collected in retail rates. (g) Amortization periods vary based on specific terms of lease contract.   Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             137  The detail of regulatory liabilities is as follows (dollars in thousands): December 31, Amortization  Through 2024 2023 Excess deferred income taxes - ACC — Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (a) 2046 $  888,896 $  930,344  Excess deferred income taxes - FERC — Tax"
"Cuts and Jobs Act (a) 2058   207,400   214,667  Asset retirement obligations and removal costs (d)   358,403   486,751  Other postretirement benefits (c)   238,113   226,726  Four Corners coal reclamation 2038   77,532   68,521  Renewable energy standard (b) 2025   68,523   60,667  Income taxes — deferred investment tax credit 2056   66,327   55,917  Income taxes — change in rates 2053   59,133   43,251  Spent nuclear fuel 2027   26,818   33,154  Demand side management (b) 2025   23,927   14,374"
"Sundance maintenance 2031   23,086   19,989  TCA Balancing Account (b) 2026   14,834   3,425  Property tax deferral 2027   4,785   10,850  Tax expense adjustor mechanism (b) 2032   4,343   4,835  Other Various   113   2,317  Total regulatory liabilities $  2,062,233 $  2,175,788  Less: current regulatory liabilities $  206,955 $  209,923  Total non-current regulatory liabilities $  1,855,278 $  1,965,865  (a) For purposes of presentation on the Statement of Cash Flows, amortization of the"
"regulatory liabilities for excess  deferred income taxes are reflected as “Deferred income taxes” under Cash Flows From Operating Activities.  (b) See “Cost Recovery Mechanisms” discussion above. (c) See Note 7. (d) In accordance with regulatory accounting, APS accrues removal costs for its regulated assets, even if there is no  legal obligation for removal. 4.  Income Taxes  Certain assets and liabilities are reported differently for income tax purposes than they are for  financial statement"
"purposes.  The tax effect of these differences is recorded as deferred taxes.  We  calculate deferred taxes using currently enacted income tax rates. APS has recorded regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities related to income taxes on its  Consolidated Balance Sheets in accordance with accounting guidance for regulated operations.  The  regulatory assets are for certain temporary differences, primarily the allowance for equity funds used  during construction, investment tax credit (“ITC”)"
"basis adjustment and tax expense of Medicare subsidy.   The regulatory liabilities primarily relate to the change in income tax rates and deferred taxes resulting  from ITCs.  In accordance with regulatory requirements, APS ITCs are deferred and are amortized over the life  of the related property with such amortization applied as a credit to reduce current income tax expense in  the Statements of Income. Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             138  On"
"January 30, 2024, Pinnacle West entered into a tax credit transfer agreement to purchase from  Ameresco $23 million of investment tax credits from the BCE Los Alamitos project for $21 million.  See  Note 20 for more information about the BCE Sale. As a part of the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (“IRA”), a new PTC for nuclear energy produced  by existing nuclear energy plants (“Nuclear PTC”) was enacted.  Energy produced and sold by APS from  Palo Verde between 2024 and 2032 is eligible for this"
"credit subject to a credit phase out based upon APS’s  gross receipts from nuclear sales.  The Company continues to await guidance from the U.S. Treasury  Department related to the definition of “gross receipts from nuclear sales” for purposes of the credit phase- out.  Without such guidance, the Company is unable to accurately determine the benefit the Nuclear PTC  may provide.  Due to the lack of guidance, no income tax benefits have been recognized related to the  Nuclear PTC as of December"
"31, 2024. Net income associated with the Captive and Palo Verde sale leaseback VIEs is not subject to tax.   As a result, there is no income tax expense associated with the VIEs recorded on the Pinnacle West  Consolidated and APS Consolidated Statements of Income.  See Note 17 for additional details related to  Palo Verde sale leaseback VIEs. The following is a tabular reconciliation of the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits,  excluding interest and penalties, at the beginning and end of"
"the year that are included in accrued taxes and  unrecognized tax benefits (dollars in thousands): Pinnacle West Consolidated APS Consolidated   2024 2023 2022 2024 2023 2022 Total unrecognized tax benefits, January 1 $ 44,274 $ 43,097 $ 45,086 $ 44,274 $ 43,097 $ 45,086  Additions for tax positions of the current year   1,271   1,473   1,399   1,271   1,473   1,399  Additions for tax positions of prior years   2,031   419   2,069   2,031   419   2,069  Reductions for tax positions of prior"
"years  for:             Changes in judgment   (2,043)   661   (3,495)   (2,043)   661   (3,495)  Settlements with taxing authorities   —   —   —   —   —   —  Lapses of applicable statute of limitations   (1,184)   (1,376)   (1,962)   (1,184)   (1,376)   (1,962)  Total unrecognized tax benefits,  December 31 $ 44,349 $ 44,274 $ 43,097 $ 44,349 $ 44,274 $ 43,097  Included in the balances of unrecognized tax benefits are the following tax positions that, if  recognized, would decrease our effective"
"tax rate (dollars in thousands): Pinnacle West Consolidated APS Consolidated   2024 2023 2022 2024 2023 2022 Tax positions, that if recognized, would  decrease our effective tax rate $ 27,899 $ 28,762 $ 28,246 $ 27,899 $ 28,762 $  28,246  As of the balance sheet date, the tax year ended December 31, 2021, and all subsequent tax years  remain subject to examination by the IRS.  With a few exceptions, we are no longer subject to state income  tax examinations by tax authorities for years before"
"2020. Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             139  We reflect interest and penalties, if any, on unrecognized tax benefits in the Pinnacle West  Consolidated and APS Consolidated Statements of Income as income tax expense.  The amount of interest  expense or benefit recognized related to unrecognized tax benefits are as follows (dollars in thousands): Pinnacle West Consolidated APS Consolidated   2024 2023 2022 2024 2023 2022 Unrecognized tax benefit"
"interest expense/ (benefit) recognized $  2,743 $  452 $  (139) $  2,743 $  452 $  (139)  Following are the total amounts of accrued liabilities for interest recognized related to  unrecognized benefits that could reverse and decrease our effective tax rate to the extent matters are settled  favorably (dollars in thousands): Pinnacle West Consolidated APS Consolidated   2024 2023 2022 2024 2023 2022 Unrecognized tax benefit interest accrued  $  4,376 $  1,633 $ 1,181 $  4,376 $  1,633 $  1,181"
"Additionally, as of December 31, 2024, we have recognized approximately $2.1 million of interest  expense to be paid on the underpayment of income taxes for certain adjustments that we have filed, or will  file, with the IRS. The components of income tax expense are as follows (dollars in thousands): Pinnacle West Consolidated APS Consolidated   Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31,   2024 2023 2022 2024 2023 2022 Current:       Federal $ 137,342 $ 21,272 $ 35,617 $ 165,653 $ 26,405 $"
"103,349  State   2,392   2,854   1,950   26,054   1,027   161  Total current  139,734   24,126   37,567  191,707   27,432  103,510  Deferred:             Federal  (53,228)   37,273   23,693  (69,075)   44,922  (31,860)  State   24,023   15,513   13,567   4,361   21,830   19,150  Total deferred  (29,205)   52,786   37,260  (64,714)   66,752  (12,710)  Income tax expense/(benefit) $ 110,529 $ 76,912 $ 74,827 $ 126,993 $ 94,184 $ 90,800  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL"
"STATEMENTS             140  The following chart compares pretax income at the 21% statutory federal income tax rate to income  tax expense (dollars in thousands): Pinnacle West Consolidated APS Consolidated   Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31,   2024 2023 2022 2024 2023 2022 Federal income tax expense at statutory rate $ 154,677 $ 125,095 $ 120,887 $ 165,090 $ 138,337 $ 132,920  Increases (reductions) in tax expense  resulting from:             State income tax net of federal income"
"tax  benefit   24,218   18,024   17,740   25,639   19,832   19,000  State income tax credits net of federal  income tax benefit   (3,349)   (3,513)   (5,482)   (1,611)   (1,775)   (3,744)  Excess deferred income taxes — Tax Cuts  and Jobs Act  (36,559)  (36,558)  (36,241)  (36,559)  (36,558)  (36,241)  Allowance for equity funds used during  construction (Note 1)   (2,545)   (5,964)   (4,629)   (2,545)   (5,964)   (4,629)  Palo Verde VIE noncontrolling interest  (Note 17)   (3,617)   (3,617)"
"(3,617)   (3,617)   (3,617)   (3,617)  Investment tax credit amortization   (9,425)   (9,495)   (5,608)   (9,425)   (9,495)   (5,608)     Federal production tax credit  (15,206)   (8,441)   (3,146)  (12,110)   (5,460)   —     Other federal income tax credits   (3,881)   (3,453)   (7,721)   (1,551)   (2,803)   (7,721)  Other   6,216   4,834   2,644   3,682   1,687   440  Income tax expense/(benefit) $ 110,529 $ 76,912 $ 74,827 $ 126,993 $ 94,184 $ 90,800  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO"
"CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             141    The components of the net deferred income tax liability were as follows (dollars in thousands): Pinnacle West Consolidated APS Consolidated   December 31, December 31,   2024 2023 2024 2023 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS     Risk management activities $  14,539 $  31,411 $  14,539 $  31,411  Regulatory liabilities:       Excess deferred income taxes — Tax Cuts and Jobs  Act   271,004   283,161   271,004   283,161  Asset retirement obligation and removal"
"costs   81,308   113,312   81,308   113,312  Unamortized investment tax credits   66,327   68,521   66,327   68,521  Other postretirement benefits   58,862   56,070   58,862   56,070  Other   47,671   39,857   47,671   39,857  Operating lease liabilities   400,771   316,067   400,442   315,670  Pension liabilities   39,070   33,294   36,100   29,918  Coal reclamation liabilities   42,391   45,505   42,391   45,505  Renewable energy incentives   14,571   17,261   14,571   17,261  Credit and loss"
"carryforwards   7,682   43,940   —   3,031  Employee benefit liabilities   57,853   49,222   56,561   48,551  Other   44,412   28,643   44,412   29,314  Total deferred tax assets   1,146,461   1,126,264   1,134,188   1,081,582  DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES       Plant-related  (2,562,990)  (2,572,495)  (2,562,990)  (2,572,495)  Risk management activities   (4,089)   (1,682)   (4,089)   (1,682)  Pension and other postretirement assets   (83,401)   (78,853)   (82,925)   (78,297)  Other special use"
"funds   (55,146)   (56,550)   (55,146)   (56,550)  Operating lease right-of-use assets   (400,771)   (316,067)   (400,443)   (315,670)  Regulatory assets:       Allowance for equity funds used during construction   (47,694)   (46,754)   (47,694)   (46,754)  Deferred fuel and purchased power   (84,393)   (149,078)   (84,393)   (149,078)  Pension benefits   (185,641)   (172,239)   (185,641)   (172,239)  Ocotillo deferral   (28,372)   (31,812)   (28,372)   (31,812)  SCR deferral   (20,548)"
"(22,128)   (20,548)   (22,128)  Retired power plant costs    (16,904)   (20,659)   (16,904)   (20,659)  Other   (57,602)   (38,320)   (57,602)   (38,320)  Other   (43,383)   (36,107)   (7,378)   (7,595)  Total deferred tax liabilities  (3,590,934)  (3,542,744)  (3,554,125)  (3,513,279)  Deferred income taxes — net $ (2,444,473) $ (2,416,480) $ (2,419,937) $ (2,431,697)  As of December 31, 2024, Pinnacle West consolidated deferred tax assets for credit and loss  carryforwards relate to federal"
"and state credit carryforwards, net of federal benefit, of $12 million, which  first begin to expire in 2029.  Pinnacle West consolidated credit and loss carryforwards amount above has  been reduced by $4 million of unrecognized tax benefits. Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             142  As of December 31, 2024, APS consolidated does not have any deferred tax assets for credit and  loss carryforwards relating to federal or state carryforwards due to APS"
"utilizing all available federal and  state credits in 2024. 5.    Lines of Credit and Short-Term Borrowings  Pinnacle West and APS maintain committed revolving credit facilities in order to enhance liquidity  and provide credit support for their commercial paper programs, to refinance indebtedness, and for other  general corporate purposes. The table below presents the consolidated credit and term loan facilities and the amounts available  and outstanding (dollars in thousands):  December 31,"
"2024 December 31, 2023 Pinnacle  West APS Total Pinnacle  West APS Total Commitments under Credit and Term Loan  Facilities $ 400,000 $ 1,650,000 $ 2,050,000  $ 200,000 $ 1,250,000 $ 1,450,000  Outstanding short-term borrowings   (228,550)  (339,900)  (568,450)    (76,650)   (532,850)   (609,500)  Amount of Credit and Term Loan Facilities  Available $ 171,450 $ 1,310,100 $ 1,481,550  $ 123,350 $ 717,150 $  840,500  Weighted-Average Commitment Fees 0.225% 0.175% 0.170% 0.120% Pinnacle West On"
"August 2, 2024, Pinnacle West amended its $200 million revolving credit facility, extending the  maturity date from April 10, 2028 to April 10, 2029, and providing a mechanism to either update the  Sustainability Table (as defined in the Pinnacle West revolving credit facility), which provides for a  sustainability-linked pricing feature, or, in certain circumstances, terminate the sustainability-linked pricing  feature for the final year.  Pinnacle West has the option to increase the amount of"
"the facility up to a total of  $300 million upon the satisfaction of certain conditions and with the consent of the lenders.  Interest rates  are based on Pinnacle West’s senior unsecured debt credit ratings and the agreement includes a  sustainability-linked pricing metric which permits an interest rate reduction or increase by meeting or  missing targets related to specific environmental and employee health and safety sustainability objectives.   The facility is available to support Pinnacle"
"West’s general corporate purposes, including support for  Pinnacle West’s $200 million commercial paper program, for bank borrowings or for issuances of letters of  credit.  At December 31, 2024, Pinnacle West had no outstanding borrowings under its revolving credit  facility, no letters of credit outstanding under its credit facility, and $29 million of outstanding commercial  paper borrowings.  The weighted-average interest rate for the outstanding borrowings on December 31,  2024, was 4.58%."
"On December 5, 2024, Pinnacle West entered into an agreement with a new 364-day $200 million  term loan facility that matures on December 4, 2025.  Borrowings under the facility bear interest at SOFR  plus 0.95% per annum.  On December 20, 2024, Pinnacle West drew the full amount of $200 million.  On  December 20, 2024, Pinnacle West repaid $200 million of the Pinnacle West term loan which matured in  December 2024. Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS"
"143  APS On August 2, 2024, APS amended its $1.25 billion revolving credit facility, extending the maturity  date from April 10, 2028 to April 10, 2029, and providing a mechanism to either update the Sustainability  Table (as defined in the APS revolving credit facility), which provides for a sustainability-linked pricing  feature, or, in certain circumstances, terminate the sustainability-linked pricing feature for the final year.   APS has the option to increase the amount of the facility by"
"up to a maximum of $400 million, for a total of  $1.65 billion, upon the satisfaction of certain conditions and with the consent of the lenders.  Interest rates  are based on APS’s senior unsecured debt credit ratings and the agreement includes a sustainability-linked  pricing metric which permits an interest rate reduction or increase by meeting or missing targets related to  specific environmental and employee health and safety sustainability objectives.  The facility is available to  support"
"APS’s general corporate purposes, including support for APS’s commercial paper program, which  was increased from $750 million to $1 billion on April 10, 2023, for bank borrowings or for issuances of  letters of credit.  At December 31, 2024, APS had no outstanding borrowings under its revolving credit  facility, no letters of credit outstanding under the credit facility, and $340 million of outstanding  commercial paper borrowings.  The weighted-average interest rate for the outstanding"
"borrowings on  December 31, 2024, was 4.62%. On December 12, 2023, APS entered into an agreement for a new 364-day $350 million term loan  facility that matured on December 10, 2024.  Borrowings under the facility boar interest at SOFR plus  1.0% per annum.  On February 9, 2024, APS drew the full amount of $350 million, which APS  subsequently paid off in full on June 10, 2024. On December 5, 2024, APS entered into a $400 million 364-Day Term Loan Agreement that  matures on December 4, 2025."
"Borrowings under the facility bear interest at SOFR plus 0.90% per annum.   As of the date of this report, APS has not drawn on this term loan. See “Financial Assurances” in Note 10 for a discussion of other outstanding letters of credit. Debt Provisions   On December 17, 2024, the ACC issued a financing order that reaffirmed APS’s short-term debt  authorization equal to the sum of (i) 7% of APS’s capitalization, and (ii) $500 million (which is required to  be used for costs relating to"
"purchases of natural gas and power) and increased the long-term debt limit to  $9.5 billion and made certain changes to permitted annual equity infusions into APS.  See Note 6 for  additional long-term debt provisions.  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             144   6.  Long-Term Debt and Liquidity Matters All of Pinnacle West’s and APS’s debt is unsecured.  The following table presents the components  of long-term debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets"
"outstanding (dollars in thousands):   Maturity Interest December 31,   Dates (a) Rates 2024 2023 APS         Pollution control bonds:         Variable 2029 (b) $  163,975 $  163,975  Total pollution control bonds       163,975   163,975  Senior unsecured notes 2025-2050 2.20%-6.88%   7,380,000   7,180,000  Unamortized discount       (14,252)   (14,197)  Unamortized premium       9,955   11,162  Unamortized debt issuance cost   (48,800)   (49,049)  Total APS long-term debt       7,490,878"
"7,291,891  Less current maturities     300,000   250,000  Total APS long-term debt less current maturities       7,190,878   7,041,891  Pinnacle West         Senior unsecured notes 2025-2027 1.30%-4.75%   1,025,000   500,000  Floating rate note 2026 (c)   350,000   —  Term loans 2024 (d)   —   625,000  Unamortized discount   (5)   (15)  Unamortized debt issuance cost   (7,225)   (1,254)  Total Pinnacle West long-term debt   1,367,770   1,123,731  Less current maturities   500,000   625,000"
"Total Pinnacle West long-term debt less current  maturities   867,770   498,731  TOTAL LONG-TERM DEBT LESS CURRENT  MATURITIES $  8,058,648 $  7,540,622  (a)  This schedule does not reflect the timing of redemptions that may occur prior to maturities. (b)  The weighted-average interest rate for the variable rate pollution control bonds was 4.01% at December 31,  2024, and 4.11% at December 31, 2023. (c)  The weighted-average interest rate was 5.88% at December 31, 2024, and was not applicable at"
"December 31,  2023.  See additional details below. (d)  The weighted-average interest rate was not applicable at December 31, 2024, and was 6.20% at December 31,  2023.  See additional details below. Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             145  The following table shows principal payments due on Pinnacle West’s and APS’s total long-term  debt (dollars in thousands): Year Pinnacle West Consolidated APS Consolidated 2025 $  800,000 $  300,000  2026"
"600,000   250,000  2027   825,000   300,000  2028   —   —  2029   568,975   568,975  Thereafter   6,125,000   6,125,000  Total $  8,918,975 $  7,543,975    Debt Fair Value   Our long-term debt fair value estimates are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.   The following table represents the estimated fair value of our long-term debt, including current maturities  (dollars in thousands):   As of December 31, 2024 As of December 31, 2023   Carrying Amount Fair Value Carrying"
"Amount Fair Value Pinnacle West $  1,367,770 $  1,393,744 $  1,123,731 $  1,095,935  APS   7,490,878   6,525,248   7,291,891   6,459,718  Total $  8,858,648 $  7,918,992 $  8,415,622 $  7,555,653    Credit Facilities and Debt and Equity Issuances Pinnacle West On December 16, 2022, Pinnacle West entered into a $175 million term loan facility that matured  on December 16, 2024.  The proceeds were received on January 6, 2023, and used for general corporate  purposes.  We recognized the term loan"
"facility as long-term debt upon settlement on January 6, 2023.  On  June 10, 2024 Pinnacle West repaid the full $175 million term loan, that matured on December 16, 2024.  On February 28, 2024, Pinnacle West entered into equity forward sale agreements (the “February  2024 Forward Sale Agreements”), which may be settled with Pinnacle West common stock or cash.  In  December 2024, Pinnacle West partially settled the 2024 Forward Sale Agreements by issuing  5,377,115 shares of common stock and"
"receiving net proceeds of $345 million.  The proceeds were  recorded in equity.  At December 31, 2024, Pinnacle West could have settled the remaining February  2024 Forward Sale Agreements with the issuance of 5,863,486 shares of common stock, which would have  provided cash liquidity to Pinnacle West of approximately $377 million.  See Note 13. On November 8, 2024, Pinnacle West entered into an equity forward sale agreement under the  ATM program (the “November 2024 ATM Forward Sale"
"Agreement”), which may be settled with Pinnacle  West common stock or cash.  At December 31, 2024, Pinnacle West could have settled the November 2024  ATM Forward Sale Agreement with the issuance of 552,833 shares of common stock, which would have  provided cash liquidity to Pinnacle West of approximately $50 million.  See Note 13. Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             146  Convertible Senior Notes.  In June 2024, Pinnacle West issued $525 million of"
"4.75% convertible  senior notes due 2027 (the “Convertible Notes”), which are senior unsecured obligations of Pinnacle West,  and will mature on June 15, 2027.  The Convertible Notes bear interest at a fixed rate of 4.75% per year,  payable semiannually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning on December 15,  2024.  Proceeds from the Convertible Notes were used to repay APS’s 364-day $350 million term loan  facility that matured on December 10, 2024 and commercial paper"
"borrowings.  Prior to March 15, 2027, the holders of the Convertible Notes may elect at their option to convert  all or any portion of their Convertible Notes under the following limited circumstances: • during any calendar quarter (and only during such calendar quarter), if the sale price of  Pinnacle West common stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a  period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on, and including, the last trading day of the  immediately"
"preceding calendar quarter, is greater than or equal to 130% of the conversion  price on each applicable trading day;  • during the five business day period after any 10 consecutive trading day period (“Measurement  Period”) in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes for each  trading day of the Measurement Period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported  sale price of Pinnacle West common stock and the conversion rate on such trading day; or • upon"
"the occurrence of certain corporate events, as defined in the Convertible Notes’ indenture. On or after March 15, 2027, until the maturity date, the holders of the Convertible Notes may elect  at their option to convert all or any portion of their notes.  Upon conversion, Pinnacle West will pay cash  up to the aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Notes converted and at Pinnacle West’s sole  discretion, pay or deliver cash, shares of Pinnacle West common stock or a combination of both,"
"in respect  to the remainder, if any, of Pinnacle West’s conversion obligation in excess of the aggregate principal  amount of the Convertible Notes being converted.  The initial conversion rate, which is subject to certain  adjustments as set forth in the indenture, is 10.8338 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount  of Convertible Notes, which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $92.30 per share  of Pinnacle West’s common stock.  The conversion rate is not"
"subject to adjustment for any accrued and  unpaid interest.    If Pinnacle West undergoes a fundamental change, as defined in the Convertible Notes’ indenture,  then, subject to certain conditions, holders of the Convertible Notes may require Pinnacle West to  repurchase for cash all or any portion of its Convertible Notes at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the  principal amount of the Convertible Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but  excluding, the fundamental"
"change repurchase date.  As of December 31, 2024, the conditions allowing holders to convert their Convertible Notes were  not met, and as a result, the Convertible Notes were classified as long term debt on Pinnacle West’s  Consolidated Balance Sheets with a carrying amount of $525 million, including unamortized debt issuance  costs of $8 million.  The estimated fair value of the Convertible Notes as of December 31, 2024 was  $552 million (Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy).   Table of"
"Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             147  As of December 31, 2024, based on Pinnacle West’s average stock price and the relevant terms of  the Convertible Notes, there were no shares of Pinnacles West’s common stock included in basic or diluted  EPS relating to the potential conversion of the Convertible Notes.  See Note 13. Floating Rate Notes.  In June 2024, Pinnacle West completed the sale of $350 million Floating  Rate Notes due 2026 (the “Floating Rate"
"Notes”).  The Floating Rate Notes are senior unsecured  obligations of Pinnacle West and will mature on June 10, 2026.  The Floating Rate Notes bear a variable  interest rate of Compounded SOFR (as defined in the Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 10,  2024) plus 82 basis points per year.  Proceeds were used to repay a portion of Pinnacle West’s  $450 million term loan that matured in December 2024 and the full amount of Pinnacle West’s  $175 million term loan that matured in December"
"2024.  On June 10, 2024, Pinnacle West repaid $250 million of its $450 million term loan which matured  in December 2024.  On December 20, 2024, Pinnacle West repaid the remaining $200 million of the term  loan.  On June 10, 2024 Pinnacle West repaid the full $175 million term loan, that matured on    December 16, 2024.  APS APS was previously authorized to receive up to $150 million annually in equity infusions from  Pinnacle West without seeking ACC approval.  In 2023, APS sought approval for"
"an additional  $500 million in equity infusions and received approval in early 2024.  Subsequently, APS requested and  the ACC issued a new financing order that approved a limit on yearly equity infusions equal to 2.5% of  APS’s total assets each calendar year on a three-year rolling average basis, subject to APS’s equity ratio  remaining below the most recently approved rate case capital structure plus 50 basis points. On June 12, 2024, Pinnacle West contributed $450 million into APS in the"
"form of an equity  infusion.  APS used this contribution to repay short-term indebtedness.  On December 23, 2024, Pinnacle  West contributed $345 million into APS in the form of an equity infusion.  APS used this contribution to  repay a portion of commercial paper borrowings and for other general corporate purposes.  On May 9, 2024, APS issued $450 million of 5.7% senior unsecured notes that mature August 15,  2034.  The net proceeds from the sale were used to repay short-term indebtedness"
"consisting of commercial  paper and for general corporate purposes.  On June 17, 2024, APS repaid its $250 million 3.35% senior unsecured notes at maturity from  commercial paper borrowings.  See “Lines of Credit and Short-Term Borrowings” in Note 5 and “Financial Assurances” in  Note 10 for discussion of APS’s separate outstanding letters of credit. BCE On February 11, 2022, a special purpose subsidiary of BCE entered into a credit agreement to  finance capital expenditures and related costs"
"for the development of a 31 megawatt (“MW”) solar and 20  megawatt hour (“MWh”) battery storage project in Los Alamitos, California (“Los Alamitos”).  The credit  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             148  agreement consisted of an equity bridge loan facility, a non-recourse construction facility, a letter of credit  facility, and a related interest rate swap.  On August 4, 2023, Pinnacle West entered into a purchase and  sale agreement with Ameresco,"
"Inc. (“Ameresco”), pursuant to which we agreed to sell all our equity  interest in BCE to Ameresco (the “BCE Sale”).  See Note 20.  As a part of the BCE Sale closing, the  $36 million construction facility, the letter of credit facility, and the interest rate swap were transferred to  Ameresco.  On August 4, 2023, concurrent with the BCE Sale, Pinnacle West paid in full the outstanding   $31 million equity bridge loan balance.  As of December 31, 2024, there is no outstanding balance on our"
"Consolidated Balance Sheets relating to this credit agreement.   On April 18, 2023, and on December 29, 2023, Pinnacle West issued performance guarantees in  connection with BCE’s Kūpono Solar investment project financing.  BCE held an equity method  investment relating to the Kūpono Solar project that was included in the BCE Sale relating to the stage of  the BCE Sale that closed on January 12, 2024.  The performance guarantees did not transfer in the BCE  Sale, and Pinnacle West continues to"
"retain these performance guarantees.  See Note 10.   Debt Provisions   Pinnacle West’s and APS’s debt covenants related to their respective bank financing arrangements  include maximum debt to capitalization ratios.  Pinnacle West and APS comply with this covenant.  For  both Pinnacle West and APS, this covenant requires that the ratio of consolidated debt to total consolidated  capitalization not exceed 65%.  At December 31, 2024, the ratio was approximately 59% for Pinnacle West  and 49% for"
"APS.  Failure to comply with such covenant levels would result in an event of default, which,  generally speaking, would require the immediate repayment of the debt subject to the covenants and could  cross-default other debt.  See further discussion of “cross-default” provisions below.   Neither Pinnacle West’s nor APS’s financing agreements contain “rating triggers” that would result  in an acceleration of the required interest and principal payments in the event of a rating downgrade."
"However, our bank credit agreements contain a pricing grid in which the interest rates we pay for  borrowings thereunder are determined by our current credit ratings.   All of Pinnacle West’s loan agreements contain “cross-default” provisions that would result in  defaults and the potential acceleration of payment under these loan agreements if Pinnacle West or APS  were to default under certain other material agreements.  All of APS’s bank agreements contain “cross- default” provisions that"
"would result in defaults and the potential acceleration of payment under these bank  agreements if APS were to default under certain other material agreements.  Pinnacle West and APS do not  have a material adverse change restriction for credit facility borrowings. Although provisions in APS’s articles of incorporation and ACC financing orders establish  maximum amounts of preferred stock and debt that APS may issue, APS does not expect any of these  provisions to limit its ability to meet its"
"capital requirements.  On April 19, 2024, APS submitted an application to the ACC requesting to increase the long-term  debt limit from $8.0 billion to $9.5 billion and to increase Pinnacle West’s permitted yearly equity  infusions to equal up to 2.5% of APS’s consolidated assets each calendar year on a three-year rolling  average basis.  On December 17, 2024, the ACC issued a financing order approving the increase of the  long-term debt limit to $9.5 billion and the permitted yearly equity"
"infusions to equal to 2.5% of APS’s  total assets each calendar year on a three-year rolling average basis, subject to APS’s equity ratio  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             149  remaining below the most recently approved rate case capital structure plus 50 basis points.  See Note 5 for  additional short-term debt provisions.    7.  Retirement Plans and Other Postretirement Benefits  Pinnacle West sponsors a qualified defined benefit and account"
"balance pension plan (The Pinnacle  West Capital Corporation Retirement Plan) and a non-qualified supplemental excess benefit retirement  plan for the employees of Pinnacle West and its subsidiaries.  All new employees participate in the account  balance plan.  Defined benefit plans specify the amount of benefits a plan participant is to receive using  information about the participant.  The pension plan covers nearly all employees.  The supplemental excess  benefit retirement plan covers"
"officers of the Company and highly compensated employees designated for  participation by the Board of Directors.  Our employees do not contribute directly to the plans.  We  calculate the benefits based on age, years of service and pay. Pinnacle West also sponsors other postretirement benefit plans (Pinnacle West Capital Corporation  Group Life and Medical Plan and Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Post-65 Retiree Health  Reimbursement Arrangement “HRA”) for the employees of Pinnacle West and"
"its subsidiaries.  These  plans provide medical and life insurance benefits to retired employees.  Employees must retire to become  eligible for these retirement benefits, which are based on years of service and age.  For the medical  insurance plan, retirees make contributions to cover a portion of the plan costs.  For the life insurance plan,  retirees do not make contributions.  We retain the right to change or eliminate these benefits. Pinnacle West uses a December 31 measurement date each"
"year for its pension and other  postretirement benefit plans.  The market-related value of our plan assets is their fair value at the  measurement date.  See Note 12 for further discussion of how fair values are determined.  Due to  subjective and complex judgments, which may be required in determining fair values, actual results could  differ from the results estimated through the application of these methods. A significant portion of the changes in the actuarial gains and losses of our pension"
"and  postretirement plans is attributable to APS and are recoverable in rates.  Accordingly, these changes are  recorded as a regulatory asset or regulatory liability.  Our retail rates provide for the inclusion of annual  benefit expense, which allows for recovery or return of this regulatory asset/liability.  See Note 3. Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             150  The following table provides details of the plans’ net periodic benefit costs and the"
"portion of these  costs charged to expense (including administrative costs and excluding amounts capitalized as overhead  construction or billed to electric plant participants) (dollars in thousands): Pension Plans Other Benefits Plans   2024 2023 2022 2024 2023 2022 Service cost-benefits earned during the period $  43,641  $  39,461  $  55,473  $  9,955  $  8,567  $  16,470  Non-service costs (credits): Interest cost on benefit obligation   148,643    153,561    107,492    22,169    22,509"
"17,491  Expected return on plan assets   (188,651)   (182,938)   (185,775)   (46,834)   (43,486)   (46,042)  Amortization of: Prior service credit (a)   —    —    —    (37,789)   (37,789)   (37,789)  Net actuarial loss (gain)   41,915    38,420    17,515    (8,676)   (9,614)   (12,835)  Net periodic benefit costs (credits) $  45,548  $  48,504  $  (5,295) $  (61,175) $  (59,813) $  (62,705)  Portion of costs (credits) charged to expense $  23,652  $  27,029  $  (16,431) $  (45,557) $  (43,408) $"
"(45,042)  (a)  Prior-service costs or credits reflect the impact of modifications to the pension or postretirement plan benefits.  The  impact of these modifications is amortized over a period which reflects the demographics of the impacted  population.  In 2014, Pinnacle West made changes to the postretirement benefits offered to Medicare eligible  retirees which resulted in prior-service credits.  We have been amortizing these prior-serviced credits since 2015  with the last full-year"
"amortization occurring in 2024. The following table shows the plans’ changes in the benefit obligations and funded status (dollars  in thousands):   Pension Plans Other Benefits Plans   2024 2023 2024 2023 Change in Benefit Obligation         Benefit obligation at January 1 $  2,908,063 $  2,809,529 $  430,434 $  409,461  Service cost   43,641   39,461   9,955   8,567  Interest cost   148,643   153,561   22,169   22,509  Benefit payments   (216,238)   (210,737)   (30,516)   (30,784)  Actuarial"
"(gain) loss   (91,800)   116,249   (71,952)   20,681  Benefit obligation at December 31   2,792,309   2,908,063   360,090   430,434  Change in Plan Assets         Fair value of plan assets at January 1   2,835,549   2,829,485   696,494   652,287  Actual return on plan assets   4,518   199,098   32,816   67,317  Benefit payments   (200,205)   (193,034)   (27,118)   (23,110)  Fair value of plan assets at December 31   2,639,862   2,835,549   702,192   696,494  Funded (Underfunded) Status at"
"December 31 $  (152,447) $  (72,514) $  342,102 $  266,060  The following table shows information for pension plans with an accumulated obligation in excess  of plan assets (dollars in thousands): As of December 31,   2024 2023 Accumulated benefit obligation $  113,541 $  123,701  Fair value of plan assets   —   —  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             151   The Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Retirement Plan is more than 100% funded on an"
"accumulated benefit obligation basis at December 31, 2024, and December 31, 2023, therefore, the only  pension plan with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets in 2024 and 2023 is a non- qualified supplemental excess benefit retirement plan.   The following table shows information for pension plans with a projected benefit obligation in  excess of plan assets (dollars in thousands): As of December 31,   2024 2023 Projected benefit obligation $  2,792,309 $  129,891  Fair"
"value of plan assets   2,639,862   —  The Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Retirement Plan, on a projected benefit obligation basis,  was 99% funded at December 31, 2024 and 102% funded at December 31, 2023.  For 2024, we included  both the projected benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets for our qualified pension plan and a  non-qualified supplemental excess benefit retirement plan.  In 2023, the only plan that was underfunded  was the non-qualified supplemental excess benefit"
"retirement plan. The following table shows the amounts recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets (dollars in  thousands):   Pension Plans Other Benefits Plans   2024 2023 2024 2023 Noncurrent asset $  — $  57,378 $  342,102 $  266,060  Current liability   (13,130)   (17,190)   —   —  Noncurrent liability   (139,317)   (112,702)   —   —  Net amount recognized (funded status) $  (152,447) $  (72,514) $  342,102 $  266,060    The following table shows the details related to accumulated other"
"comprehensive loss (gain) as of  December 31, 2024, and 2023 (dollars in thousands):    Pension Plans Other Benefits Plans   2024 2023 2024 2023 Net actuarial loss (gain) $  793,421 $  743,003 $  (237,889) $  (188,630)  Prior service credit   —   —   (1,265)   (39,054)  APS’s portion recorded as a regulatory (asset)  liability   (750,976)   (696,476)   238,113   226,726  Income tax expense (benefit)   (10,354)   (11,506)   611   691  Accumulated other comprehensive loss (gain) $  32,091 $"
"35,021 $  (430) $  (267)    Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             152  The following table shows the weighted-average assumptions used for both the pension and other  benefits to determine benefit obligations and net periodic benefit costs:   Benefit Obligations As of December 31, Benefit Costs Year Ended December 31,   2024 2023 2024 2023 2022 Discount rate – pension plans  5.68 %  5.21 %  5.21 %  5.56 %  2.92 % Discount rate – other benefits plans"
"5.71 %  5.23 %  5.23 %  5.58 %  2.98 % Rate of compensation increase  4.50 %  4.52 %  4.52 %  4.57 %  4.00 % Expected long-term return on plan assets - pension plans N/A N/A  6.90 %  6.70 %  5.00 % Expected long-term return on plan assets - other benefit  plans N/A N/A  6.85 %  6.80 %  5.35 % Initial healthcare cost trend rate (pre-65 participants)  6.50 %  6.25 %  6.25 %  6.50 %  6.00 % Ultimate healthcare cost trend rate (pre-65 participants)  4.50 %  4.75 %  4.75 %  4.75 %  4.75 % Number of"
"years to ultimate trend rate (pre-65  participants) 6 5 4 5 3 Initial healthcare cost trend rate (post-65 participants)  1.00 %  2.00 %  2.00 %  2.00 %  2.00 % Ultimate healthcare cost trend rate (post-65 participants)  — %  2.00 %  2.00 %  2.00 %  2.00 % Interest crediting rate – cash balance pension plans  4.66 %  4.54 %  4.54 %  4.50 %  4.50 % In selecting the pretax expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, we consider past  performance and economic forecasts for the types of"
"investments held by the plan.  For 2025, we are  assuming a 7.05% long-term rate of return for pension assets and 7.15% (before tax) for other benefit  assets, which we believe is reasonable given our asset allocation in relation to historical and expected  performance. In selecting our healthcare trend rates, we consider past performance and forecasts of healthcare  costs.   Plan Assets   The Board of Directors has delegated oversight of the pension and other postretirement benefit  plans’"
"assets to an Investment Management Committee (“Committee”).  The Committee has adopted  investment policy statements (“IPS”) for the pension and the other postretirement benefit plans’ assets.   The investment strategies for these plans include external management of plan assets.   The overall strategy of the pension plan’s IPS is to achieve an adequate level of trust assets relative  to the benefit obligations.  To achieve this objective, the plan’s investment policy provides for mixes of"
"investments including long-term fixed income assets and return-seeking assets.  The target allocation  between return-seeking and long-term fixed income assets is defined in the IPS.  The plan’s funded status  is reviewed on at least a monthly basis.   Changes in the value of long-term fixed income assets, also known as liability-hedging assets, are  intended to offset changes in the benefit obligations due to changes in interest rates.  Long-term fixed  income assets consist primarily of fixed"
"income debt securities issued by the U.S. Treasury and other  government agencies, U.S. Treasury futures contracts, and fixed income debt securities issued by  corporations.  Long-term fixed income assets may also include interest rate swaps, and other instruments.   Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             153  Return-seeking assets are intended to provide a reasonable long-term rate of investment return with  a prudent level of volatility.  Return-"
"seeking assets are composed of U.S. equities, international equities,  and alternative investments.  International equities include investments in both developed and emerging  markets.  Alternative investments may include investments in real estate, private debt and various other  strategies.  The plan may also hold investments in return-seeking assets by holding securities in  partnerships, common and collective trusts, and mutual funds. Based on the IPS, the target and actual allocation for"
"the pension plan at December 31, 2024, are as  follows:   Target Allocation Actual Allocation Long-term fixed income assets  80 %  79 % Return-seeking assets  20 %  21 % Total  100 %  100 % The permissible range is within +/-5% of the target allocation shown in the above table, and also  considers the plan’s funded status.  The following table presents the additional target allocations, as a percent of total pension plan  assets, for the return-seeking assets: Target Allocation Equities in US"
"and other developed markets  12 % Equities in emerging markets  4 % Alternative investments  4 % Total  20 % The pension plan IPS does not provide for a specific mix of long-term fixed income assets but does  expect the average credit quality of such assets to be investment grade.   As of December 31, 2024, the asset allocation for other postretirement benefit plan assets is  governed by the IPS for those plans, which provides for different asset allocation target mixes depending  on the"
"characteristics of the liability.  The following table presents the actual allocations of the investment  for the other postretirement benefit plan at December 31, 2024: Actual Allocation Long-term fixed income assets  61 % Return-seeking assets  39 % Total  100 %   See Note 12 for a discussion on the fair value hierarchy and how fair value methodologies are  applied.  The plans invest directly in fixed income, U.S. Treasury Futures Contracts, and equity securities,  in addition to investing"
"indirectly in fixed income securities, equity securities and real estate through the  use of mutual funds, partnerships and common and collective trusts.  Equity securities held directly by the  plans are valued using quoted active market prices from the published exchange on which the equity  security trades and are classified as Level 1.  U.S. Treasury Futures Contracts are valued using the quoted  active market prices from the exchange on which they trade and are classified as Level 1.  Fixed"
"income  securities issued by the U.S. Treasury held directly by the plans are valued using quoted active market  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             154  prices and are classified as Level 1.  Fixed income securities issued by corporations, municipalities, and  other agencies are primarily valued using quoted inactive market prices, or quoted active market prices for  similar securities, or by utilizing calculations which incorporate observable"
"inputs such as yield, maturity,  and credit quality.  These instruments are classified as Level 2.   Mutual funds, partnerships, and common and collective trusts are valued utilizing a net asset value  (“NAV”) concept or its equivalent.  Mutual funds, which includes exchange traded funds (“ETFs”), are  classified as Level 1, and valued using a NAV that is observable and based on the active market in which  the fund trades. Common and collective trusts are maintained by banks or investment"
"companies and hold certain  investments in accordance with a stated set of objectives (such as tracking the performance of the S&P 500  Index).  The trust’s shares are offered to a limited group of investors and are not traded in an active market.   Investments in common and collective trusts are valued using NAV as a practical expedient and,  accordingly, are not classified in the fair value hierarchy.  The NAV for trusts investing in exchange traded  equities, and fixed income securities is"
"derived from the market prices of the underlying securities held by  the trusts.  The NAV for trusts investing in real estate is derived from the appraised values of the trust’s  underlying real estate assets.   Investments in partnerships are also valued using the concept of NAV as a practical expedient and,  accordingly, are not classified in the fair value hierarchy.  The NAV for these investments is derived from  the value of the partnerships’ underlying assets.  The plan’s partnerships"
"holdings relate to investments in  high-yield fixed income instruments.  Certain partnerships also include funding commitments that may  require the plan to contribute up to $50 million to these partnerships; as of December 31, 2024,  approximately $38 million of these commitments have been funded.    The plans’ trustee provides valuation of our plan assets by using pricing services that utilize  methodologies described to determine fair market value.  We have internal control procedures to"
"ensure  this information is consistent with fair value accounting guidance.  These procedures include assessing  valuations using an independent pricing source, verifying that pricing can be supported by actual recent  market transactions, assessing hierarchy classifications, comparing investment returns with benchmarks,  and obtaining and reviewing independent audit reports on the trustee’s internal operating controls and  valuation processes. Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED"
"FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             155  The fair value of Pinnacle West’s pension plan and other postretirement benefit plan assets at  December 31, 2024, by asset category, are as follows (dollars in thousands):     Level 1 Level 2 Other (a) Total Pension Plan:       Cash and cash equivalents $  9,055 $  — $  — $  9,055  Fixed income securities:       Corporate   —   1,325,833   —   1,325,833  U.S. Treasury   561,317   —   —   561,317  Other (b)   —   133,254   —   133,254  Common stock equities"
"(c)   74,939   —   —   74,939  Mutual funds (d)   102,722   —   —   102,722  Common and collective trusts: Equities   —   —   244,734   244,734  Real estate   —   —   127,397   127,397  Other (e)   —   —   60,611   60,611  Total $  748,033 $  1,459,087 $  432,742 $  2,639,862  Other Benefits:         Cash and cash equivalents $  840 $  — $  — $  840  Fixed income securities:       Corporate   —   186,435   —   186,435  U.S. Treasury   204,274   —   —   204,274  Other (b)   —   12,585   —"
"12,585  Common stock equities (c)   89,685   —   —   89,685  Mutual funds (d)   23,415   —   —   23,415  Common and collective trusts:       Equities   —   —   140,178   140,178  Real estate   —   —   19,474   19,474  Other (e)   19,145   —   6,161   25,306  Total $  337,359 $  199,020 $  165,813 $  702,192  (a) These investments primarily represent assets valued using NAV as a practical expedient and have not been  classified in the fair value hierarchy. (b) This category consists primarily of"
"debt securities issued by municipalities and asset backed securities. (c) This category primarily consists of U.S. common stock equities. (d) These funds invest in international common stock equities.   (e) Primarily relates to short-term investment funds and includes plan receivables and payables.   Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             156   The fair value of Pinnacle West’s pension plan and other postretirement benefit plan assets at  December 31,"
"2023, by asset category, are as follows (dollars in thousands):   Level 1 Level 2 Other (a) Total Pension Plan:       Fixed income securities:       Corporate $  — $  1,415,346 $  —  $  1,415,346  U.S. Treasury   622,273   —   —    622,273  Other (b)   —   135,184   —    135,184  Common stock equities (c)   150,657   —   —    150,657  Mutual funds (d)   112,791   —   —    112,791  Common and collective trusts:    Equities   —   —   192,945    192,945     Real estate   —   —   140,613    140,613"
"Other (e)   —   —   65,740    65,740  Total  $  885,721 $  1,550,530 $  399,298  $  2,835,549  Other Benefits:         Fixed income securities:       Corporate $  — $  189,902 $  —  $  189,902  U.S. Treasury   207,665   —   —    207,665  Other (b)   —   8,372   —    8,372  Common stock equities (c)   139,952   —   —    139,952  Mutual funds (d)   22,256   —   —    22,256  Common and collective trusts:    Equities   —   —   81,724    81,724     Real estate   —   —   20,001    20,001  Other (e)"
"21,146   —   5,476    26,622  Total  $  391,019 $  198,274 $  107,201  $  696,494  (a) These investments primarily represent assets valued using NAV as a practical expedient and have not been  classified in the fair value hierarchy. (b) This category consists primarily of debt securities issued by municipalities and asset backed securities. (c) This category primarily consists of U.S. common stock equities. (d) These funds invest in U.S. and international common stock equities.   (e) Primarily"
"relates to short-term investment funds and includes plan receivables and payables. Contributions   Future year contribution amounts are dependent on plan asset performance and plan actuarial  assumptions.  In 2024 and 2023, we did not make any contributions to our pension plan.  The expected  minimum required cash contributions for the pension plan are zero for the next three years and we do not  expect to make any voluntary contributions in 2025, 2026 or 2027.  With regard to contributions to"
"our  other postretirement benefit plan, we did not make a contribution in 2024 or 2023 and do not expect to  make any contributions in 2025, 2026 or 2027. The Company was reimbursed $27 million in 2024, $23  million in 2023, and $26 million in 2022 for prior years retiree medical claims from the other  postretirement benefit plan trust assets.   Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             157  Estimated Future Benefit Payments   Benefit payments, which"
"reflect estimated future employee service, for the next five years and the  succeeding five years thereafter, are estimated to be as follows (dollars in thousands): Year Pension Plans Other Benefits Plans 2025 $  241,762 $  28,753  2026   223,562   28,747  2027   230,335   28,276  2028   233,617   27,880  2029   232,591   27,645  Years 2030-2034   1,147,273   137,301    Electric plant participants contribute to the above amounts in accordance with their respective  participation agreements."
"Employee Savings Plan Benefits   Pinnacle West sponsors a defined contribution savings plan for eligible employees of Pinnacle  West and its subsidiaries.  In 2024, costs related to APS’s employees represented 99% of the total cost of  this plan.  In a defined contribution savings plan, the benefits a participant receives result from regular  contributions participants make to their own individual account, the Company’s matching contributions  and earnings or losses on their investments.  Under"
"this plan, the Company matches a percentage of the  participants’ contributions in cash which is then invested in the same investment mix as participants elect  to invest their own future contributions.  Pinnacle West recorded expenses for this plan of approximately  $14 million for 2024, $12 million for 2023, and $12 million for 2022. 8.  Leases    We lease certain land, buildings, vehicles, equipment, and other property through operating rental  agreements with varying terms, provisions, and"
"expiration dates.  APS also has certain purchased power  and energy storage agreements that qualify as lease arrangements.  Our leases have remaining terms that  expire in 2025 through 2073.  Substantially all of our leasing activities relate to APS.  In 1986, APS entered into agreements with three separate lessor trust entities in order to sell and  lease back interests in Palo Verde Unit 2 and related common facilities.  These lessor trust entities have  been deemed VIEs for which APS is the"
"primary beneficiary.  As the primary beneficiary, APS  consolidated these lessor trust entities.  The impacts of these sale leaseback transactions are excluded from  our lease disclosures as lease accounting is eliminated upon consolidation.  See Note 17 for a discussion of  VIEs. APS has purchased power lease agreements that allow APS the right to the generation capacity  from certain natural-gas fueled generators during certain months of each year throughout the term of the  arrangements.  As"
"APS only has rights to use the assets during certain periods of each year, the leases have  non-consecutive periods of use.  APS does not operate or maintain the leased assets.  APS controls the  dispatch of the leased assets during the months of use and is required to pay a fixed monthly capacity  payment during these periods of use.  For these types of leased assets, APS has elected to combine both the  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             158"
"lease and non-lease payment components and accounts for the entire fixed payment as a lease obligation.   In addition to the fixed monthly capacity payments, APS must also pay variable charges based on the  actual production volume of the assets.  The variable consideration is not included in the measurement of  our lease obligation.  APS has executed various energy storage purchased power lease agreements that allow APS the  right to charge and discharge energy storage facilities.  APS pays a"
"fixed monthly capacity price for rights  to use the lease assets.  The agreements generally have 20-year lease terms and provide APS with the  exclusive use of the energy storage assets through the lease term.  APS does not operate or maintain the  energy storage facilities and has no purchase options or residual value guarantees relating to these lease  assets.  For this class of energy storage lease assets, APS has elected to separate the lease and non-lease  components.  These leases are"
"accounted for as operating leases, with lease terms that commenced between  September 2023 and August 2024.   The following table provides information related to our lease costs (dollars in thousands):  Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Operating Lease Cost - Purchased Power & Energy Storage Lease Contracts $  147,313 $  126,655 $ 104,001  Operating Lease Cost - Land, Property, and Other Equipment   20,120   19,235   18,061  Total Operating Lease Cost   167,433   145,890   122,062  Variable"
"Lease Cost (a)   144,108   135,007   122,040  Short-term Lease Cost   20,653   21,530   9,928  Total Lease Cost $  332,194 $  302,427 $ 254,030  (a)   Primarily relates to purchased power lease contracts. Lease costs are primarily included as a component of operating expenses on our Consolidated  Statements of Income.  Lease costs relating to purchased power and energy storage lease contracts are  recorded in fuel and purchased power on the Consolidated Statements of Income and are subject to"
"recovery under the PSA or RES.  See Note 3.  The tables above reflect the lease cost amounts before the  effect of regulatory deferral under the PSA and RES.  Variable lease costs are recognized in the period the  costs are incurred, and primarily relate to renewable purchased power lease contracts.  Payments under  most renewable purchased power lease contracts are dependent upon environmental factors, and due to the  inherent uncertainty associated with the reliability of the fuel source, the"
"payments are considered variable  and are excluded from the measurement of lease liabilities and right-of-use lease assets.  Certain of our  lease agreements have lease terms with non-consecutive periods of use.  For these agreements, we  recognize lease costs during the periods of use.  Leases with initial terms of 12 months or less are  considered short-term leases and are not recorded on the balance sheets.  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             159"
"The following table provides information related to the maturity of our operating lease liabilities  (dollars in thousands):   December 31, 2024 Year Purchased Power  & Energy  Storage Lease  Contracts Land, Property  & Equipment  Leases Total 2025  $  158,363  $  16,834  $  175,197  2026   172,087    14,830    186,917  2027   198,007    12,249    210,256  2028   201,804    9,591    211,395  2029   205,741    7,465    213,206  Thereafter   1,140,971    61,855    1,202,826  Total lease"
"commitments   2,076,973    122,824    2,199,797  Less imputed interest   536,948    41,605    578,553  Total lease liabilities $  1,540,025  $  81,219  $  1,621,244  We recognize lease assets and liabilities upon lease commencement.  At December 31, 2024, we  have various lease arrangements that have been executed, but have not yet commenced.  We expect the  total fixed consideration paid for these arrangements, which includes both lease and non-lease payments,  will approximate $16.7 billion"
"over the terms of the agreements.  These arrangements primarily relate to  energy storage assets.  We expect lease commencement dates ranging from March 2025 through June  2028, with lease terms expiring through June 2048.  The lease commencement dates for certain  arrangements have experienced delays.  As a result of these delays and other events, APS has received cash  proceeds from certain lessors prior to lease commencement.  Proceeds received from lessors relating to  energy storage PPA"
"leases are accounted for as lease incentives on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, and  upon lease commencement are amortized over the associated lease term.  For regulatory purposes, the  proceeds received by APS relating to these PPA leases are treated as a reduction to fuel and purchased  power costs through the PSA in the period proceeds are received.  See Note 3.  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             160  The following tables provide other"
"additional information related to operating lease liabilities  (dollars in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Cash paid for amounts included in the measurement of lease  liabilities — operating cash flows: $  143,950  $  123,472  $  118,463  Right-of-use operating lease assets obtained in exchange for  operating lease liabilities:   393,702 (a)   602,301 (b)   16,990  December 31, 2024 December 31, 2023 Weighted average remaining lease term 11 years 10 years Weighted average"
"discount rate (c)  4.90 %  4.53 % (a) Primarily relates to the three new energy storage operating lease agreements that commenced in 2024. (b) Primarily relates to the two purchased power operating lease agreements that were modified in January 2023.  (c) Most of our lease agreements do not contain an implicit rate that is readily determinable.  For these  agreements we use our incremental borrowing rate to measure the present value of lease liabilities.  We  determine our incremental borrowing"
"rate at lease commencement based on the rate of interest that we would  have to pay to borrow, on a collateralized basis over a similar term, an amount equal to the lease payments in  a similar economic environment.  We use the implicit rate when it is readily determinable.  Table of Contents COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS             161  9.  Jointly-Owned Facilities     APS shares ownership of some of its generating and transmission facilities with other companies.   We"
"are responsible for our share of operating costs which are included in the corresponding operating  expenses on our Consolidated Statements of Income.  We are also responsible for providing our own  financing.  Our share of operating expenses and utility plant costs related to these facilities is accounted for  using proportional consolidation.  The following table shows APS’s interests in those jointly-owned  facilities recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2024 (dollars"
"in thousands):   Percent Owned   Plant in Service Accumulated Depreciation Construction Work in Progress Generating facilities:           Palo Verde Units 1 and 3  29.1 % $ 2,010,346 $ 1,081,321 $  20,694  Palo Verde Unit 2 (a)  16.8 %   709,414   397,235   9,076  Palo Verde Common  28.0 % (b)   898,401   366,027   47,962  Palo Verde Sale Leaseback   (a)   351,050   268,494   —  Four Corners Generating Station   63.0 %  1,848,412   705,667   56,226  Cholla Common Facilities (c)  50.5 %   301,035"
"231,170   1,743  Transmission facilities:           Arizona Nuclear Power Project 500kV System  33.3 % (b)   134,713   60,174   7,174  Navajo Southern System  24.7 % (b)   88,528   38,797   626  Palo Verde — Yuma 500kV System  25.5 % (b)   24,260   8,120   142  Four Corners Switchyards  58.0 % (b)   84,367   23,886   309  Phoenix — Mead System  17.1 % (b)   39,788   21,173   330  Palo Verde — Rudd 500kV System  50.0 %   95,785   34,254   1,808  Morgan — Pinnacle Peak System  63.2 % (b)   117,500"
"29,013   287  Round Valley System  50.0 %   548   213   —  Palo Verde — Morgan System  87.5 % (b)   266,547   46,327   208  Hassayampa — North Gila System  80.0 %   154,330   27,739   —  Cholla 500kV Switchyard  85.7 %   8,454   2,859   35  Saguaro 500kV Switchyard  60.0 %   29,850   15,768   101  Kyrene — Knox System  50.0 %   578   349   —  Agua Fria Switchyard  10.0 %   —   —   82  (a) See Note 17. (b) Weighted-average of interests. (c) PacifiCorp owns Cholla Unit 4 (see Note 3 for additional"
"information), and APS operated the unit for  PacifiCorp.  Cholla Unit 4 was retired on December 24, 2020.  The common facilities at Cholla are jointly- owned.     Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 162  10.  Commitments and Contingencies     Palo Verde Generating Station    Spent Nuclear Fuel and Waste Disposal    On December 19, 2012, APS, acting on behalf of itself and the participant owners of Palo Verde,  filed a second breach of contract lawsuit against"
"the DOE in the United States Court of Federal Claims  (“Court of Federal Claims”).  The lawsuit sought to recover damages incurred due to DOE’s breach of the  Contract for Disposal of Spent Nuclear Fuel and/or High Level Radioactive Waste (“Standard Contract”)  for failing to accept Palo Verde’s spent nuclear fuel and high level waste from January 1, 2007, through  June 30, 2011, pursuant to the terms of the Standard Contract and the Nuclear Waste Policy Act.  On  August 18, 2014, APS and DOE"
"entered into a settlement agreement, which required DOE to pay the Palo  Verde owners for certain specified costs incurred by Palo Verde during the period January 1, 2007, through  June 30, 2011.  In addition, the settlement agreement provided APS with a method for submitting claims  and getting recovery for costs incurred through December 31, 2016, which was extended to December 31,  2025.    APS has recovered costs for ten claims pursuant to the terms of the August 15, 2014 settlement"
"agreement, for ten separate time periods during July 1, 2011, through October 31, 2023.  The DOE has  approved and paid approximately $156.7 million for these claims (APS’s share is approximately  $45.6 million).  The amounts recovered were primarily recorded as adjustments to a regulatory liability and  had no impact on reported net income.  In accordance with the 2017 Rate Case Decision, this regulatory  liability is being refunded to customers.  See Note 3.  On October 31, 2024, APS filed its"
"eleventh claim  pursuant to the terms of the August 15, 2014, settlement agreement in the amount of approximately  $18 million (APS’s share is approximately $5.3 million).  In February 2025, the DOE approved  approximately $17.6 million of this claim. Nuclear Insurance    Public liability for incidents at nuclear power plants is governed by the Price-Anderson Nuclear  Industries Indemnity Act (“Price-Anderson Act”), which limits the liability of nuclear reactor owners to the  amount of insurance"
"available from both commercial sources and an industry-wide retrospective payment  plan.  This insurance limit is subject to an adjustment every five years based upon the aggregate percentage  change in the Consumer Price Index.  The most recent adjustment took effect on January 1, 2024.  As of  that date, in accordance with the Price-Anderson Act, the Palo Verde participants are insured against public  liability for a nuclear incident up to approximately $16.3 billion per occurrence.  Palo"
"Verde maintains the  maximum available nuclear liability insurance in the amount of $500 million, which is provided by  American Nuclear Insurers.  The remaining balance of approximately $15.8 billion of liability coverage is  provided through a mandatory, industry-wide retrospective premium program.  If losses at any nuclear  power plant covered by the program exceed the accumulated funds, APS could be responsible for  retrospective premiums.  The maximum retrospective premium per reactor under"
"the program for each  nuclear liability incident is approximately $165.9 million, subject to a maximum annual premium of  approximately $24.7 million per incident.  Based on APS’s ownership interest in the three Palo Verde  units, APS’s maximum retrospective premium per incident for all three units is approximately $144.9  million, with a maximum annual retrospective premium of approximately $21.6 million. Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 163  The Palo Verde"
"participants maintain insurance for property damage to, and decontamination of,  property at Palo Verde in the aggregate amount of $2.8 billion.  APS has also secured accidental outage  insurance for a sudden and unforeseen accidental outage of any of the three units.  The property damage,  decontamination, and accidental outage insurance are provided by Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited  (“NEIL”).  APS is subject to retrospective premium adjustments under all NEIL policies if NEIL’s losses  in"
"any policy year exceed accumulated funds.  The maximum amount APS could incur under the current  NEIL policies totals approximately $23.1 million for each retrospective premium assessment declared by  NEIL’s Board of Directors due to losses.  Additionally, at the sole discretion of the NEIL Board of  Directors, APS would be liable to provide approximately $64.1 million in deposit premium within 20 days  of request as assurance to satisfy any site obligation of retrospective premium assessment."
"The insurance  coverage discussed in this, and the previous paragraph, is subject to certain policy conditions, sublimits,  and exclusions.   Captive Insurance Cell Pinnacle West has established a captive insurance program to supplement third-party insurance  coverage for certain risks.  The Captive insures Pinnacle West and its subsidiaries for terrorism coverage,  excess liability including certain wildfire coverage, excess property insurance, and excess employment  practice liability.  These"
"coverages may be supplemented with third-party insurance policies.  The Captive  policies exclude nuclear liability at Palo Verde.  See Note 10.  The Captive may hold investment assets in  cash, cash equivalents, and equity and fixed income instruments, which in the event of an insured loss  would be available to pay covered claims.  In the event of an insured loss event, Pinnacle West may be  required to provide additional funding to the Captive.  The Captive is a VIE, and Pinnacle West is the"
"primary beneficiary of the VIE and consolidates the assets and liabilities of the Captive.  See Note 17 for  additional details.  Fuel and Purchased Power Commitments and Purchase Obligations APS is party to various fuel and purchased power contracts and purchase obligations with terms  expiring between 2025 and 2048 that include required purchase provisions.  APS estimates the contract  requirements to be approximately $1,540 million in 2025; $1,742 million in 2026; $1,973 million in 2027;"
"$2,142 million in 2028; $2,115 million in 2029; and $27.2 billion thereafter.  However, these amounts may  vary significantly pursuant to certain provisions in such contracts that permit us to decrease required  purchases under certain circumstances.  These amounts include estimated commitments relating to  purchased power lease contracts.  See Note 8.    Of the various fuel and purchased power contracts mentioned above, some of those contracts for  coal supply include take-or-pay provisions."
"The current coal contracts with take-or-pay provisions have  terms expiring through 2031.   Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 164  The following table summarizes our estimated coal take-or-pay commitments (dollars in  thousands):     Year Ended December 31,   2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 Thereafter (b) Coal take-or-pay commitments (a) $  208,984 $  214,090 $  212,529 $  217,820 $  223,291 $  463,752    (a) Total take-or-pay commitments are approximately $1.5"
"billion.  The total net present value of these  commitments using a 4.81% discount rate is approximately $1.3 billion. (b) Through 2031.     APS may spend more to meet its actual fuel requirements than the minimum purchase obligations  in our coal take-or-pay contracts.  The following table summarizes actual amounts purchased under the  coal contracts which include take-or-pay provisions for each of the last three years (dollars in thousands):    Year Ended December 31,   2024 2023 2022 Total"
"purchases $  237,821 $  255,219 $  305,502    Renewable Energy Credits   APS has entered into contracts to purchase renewable energy credits to comply with the RES.  APS  estimates the contract requirements to be approximately $27 million in 2025; $24 million in 2026; $21  million in 2027; $18 million in 2028; $16 million in 2029; and $36 million thereafter.  These amounts do  not include purchases of renewable energy credits that are bundled with energy.   Coal Mine Reclamation Obligations APS"
"must reimburse certain coal providers for final and contemporaneous coal mine reclamation.   We account for contemporaneous reclamation costs as part of the cost of the delivered coal.  We utilize  site-specific studies of costs expected to be incurred in the future to estimate our final reclamation  obligation.  These studies utilize various assumptions to estimate the future costs.  Based on the most  recent reclamation studies, APS recorded an obligation for the coal mine final reclamation of"
"approximately $171 million at December 31, 2024, and $184 million at December 31, 2023.  Under our  current coal supply agreements, APS expects to make payments for the final mine reclamation as follows:   $20 million in 2025; $21 million in 2026; $22 million in 2027; $23 million in 2028; and $2 million  thereafter.  These funds are held in an escrow account and will be distributed to certain coal providers  under the terms of the applicable coal supply agreements.  Any amendments to current"
"coal supply  agreements may change the timing of the contribution or cost of final reclamation.  The annual payments to  the escrow account and final distribution to certain coal providers may be subject to adjustments based on  escrow earnings.   Superfund and Other Related Matters   The Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (“Superfund” or  “CERCLA”) establishes liability for the cleanup of hazardous substances found contaminating the soil,  water or air.  Those"
"who released, generated, transported to or disposed of hazardous substances at a  Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 165  contaminated site are among the parties who are potentially responsible (each a “PRP”).  PRPs may be  strictly, jointly, and severally liable for clean-up.  On September 3, 2003, EPA advised APS that EPA  considers APS to be a PRP in the Motorola 52nd Street Superfund Site, Operable Unit 3 (“OU3”) in  Phoenix, Arizona.  APS has facilities"
"that are within this Superfund site.  APS and Pinnacle West have  agreed with EPA to perform certain investigative activities of the APS facilities within OU3.  In addition,  on September 23, 2009, APS agreed with EPA and one other PRP to voluntarily assist with the funding and  management of the site-wide groundwater remedial investigation and feasibility study (“RI/FS”).  The RI/ FS for OU3 was finalized and submitted to EPA at the end of 2022.  EPA notified APS that the RI/FS was  approved on"
"September 11, 2024.  APS’s estimated costs related to this investigation and study is  approximately $3 million.  APS anticipates incurring additional expenditures in the future, but because the  final costs associated with remediation requirements set forth in the RI/FS are not yet finalized, at the  present time expenditures related to this matter cannot be reasonably estimated.    In connection with APS’s status as a PRP for OU3, since 2013 APS and at least two dozen other  parties have been"
"defendants in various CERCLA lawsuits stemming from allegations that contamination  from OU3 and elsewhere has impacted groundwater wells operated by the Roosevelt Irrigation District  (“RID”).  At this time, only one active lawsuit remains pending in the U.S. District Court for Arizona,  which concerns $8.3 million in remediation legal expenses.  APS is unable to predict the outcome of any  further litigation related to this claim or APS’s share of liability related to that claim; however, APS"
"does  not expect the outcome to have a material impact on its financial position, results of operations or cash  flows.  On February 28, 2022, EPA provided APS with a request for information under CERCLA related  to APS’s Ocotillo power plant site located in Tempe, Arizona.  In particular, EPA seeks information from  APS regarding APS’s use, storage, and disposal of substances containing per-and polyfluoroalkyl  (“PFAS”) compounds at the Ocotillo power plant site in order to aid EPA’s"
"investigation into actual or  threatened releases of PFAS into groundwater within the South Indian Bend Wash (“SIBW”) Superfund  site.  The SIBW Superfund site includes the APS Ocotillo power plant site.  APS filed its response to this  information request on April 29, 2022.  On January 17, 2023, EPA contacted APS to inform APS that it  would be commencing on-site investigations within the SIBW site, including the Ocotillo power plant, and  performing a remedial investigation and feasibility"
"study related to potential PFAS impacts to groundwater  over the next two to three years.  APS estimates that its costs to oversee and participate in the remedial  investigation work will be approximately $1.7 million.  At the present time, we are unable to predict the  outcome of this matter, and any further expenditures related to necessary remediation, if any, or further  investigations cannot be reasonably estimated.  Environmental Matters APS is subject to numerous environmental laws and"
"regulations affecting many aspects of its  present and future operations, including air emissions of both conventional pollutants and greenhouse  gases, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste, hazardous waste, and CCRs.  These laws and  regulations can change from time to time, imposing new obligations on APS resulting in increased capital,  operating, and other costs.  Associated capital expenditures or operating costs could be material.  APS  intends to seek recovery of any such"
"environmental compliance costs through our rates but cannot predict  whether it will obtain such recovery.  The following proposed and final rules could involve material  compliance costs to APS.   Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 166  Coal Combustion Waste.  On December 19, 2014, EPA issued its final regulations governing the  handling and disposal of CCR, such as fly ash and bottom ash.  The rule regulates CCR as a non-hazardous  waste under Subtitle D of"
"the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) and establishes national  minimum criteria for existing and new CCR landfills and surface impoundments and all lateral expansions.   These criteria include standards governing location restrictions, design and operating criteria, groundwater  monitoring and corrective action, closure requirements and post closure care, and recordkeeping,  notification, and internet posting requirements.  The rule generally requires any existing unlined CCR"
"surface impoundment to stop receiving CCR and either retrofit or close, and further requires the closure of  any CCR landfill or surface impoundment that cannot meet the applicable performance criteria for location  restrictions or structural integrity.  Such closure requirements are deemed “forced closure” or “closure for  cause” of unlined surface impoundments and are the subject of the regulatory and judicial activities  described below. Since these regulations were finalized, EPA has taken"
"steps to substantially modify the federal  rules governing CCR disposal.  While certain changes have been prompted by utility industry petitions,  others have resulted from judicial review, court-approved settlements with environmental groups, and  statutory changes to RCRA.  The following lists the pending regulatory changes that, if finalized, could  have a material impact as to how APS manages CCR at its coal-fired power plants: • Following the passage of the Water Infrastructure Improvements"
"for the Nation (“WIIN”) Act  in 2016, EPA possesses authority to either authorize states to develop their own permit  programs for CCR management or issue federal permits governing CCR disposal both in states  without their own permit programs and on tribal lands.  At this time, Arizona Department of  Environmental Quality (“ADEQ”) has taken steps to develop a CCR permitting program and  plans to propose state regulations governing CCR permitting over the summer of 2024.  It  remains unclear"
"when EPA would approve that permitting program pursuant to the WIIN Act.   On December 19, 2019, EPA proposed its own set of regulations governing the issuance of  CCR management permits, which would impact facilities like Four Corners located on the  Navajo Nation.  The proposal remains pending.  • On March 1, 2018, as a result of a settlement with certain environmental groups, EPA proposed  adding boron to the list of constituents that trigger corrective action requirements to remediate"
"groundwater impacted by CCR disposal activities.  Apart from a subsequent proposal issued on  August 14, 2019, to add a specific, health-based groundwater protection standard for boron,  EPA has yet to take action on this proposal.   • With respect to APS’s Cholla facility, APS’s application for alternative closure was submitted  to EPA on November 30, 2020.  While EPA has deemed APS’s application administratively  “complete,” the Agency’s approval remains pending.  If granted, this application"
"would allow  the continued disposal of CCR within Cholla’s existing unlined CCR surface impoundments  until the required date for ceasing coal-fired boiler operations in April 2025.  This application  will be subject to public comment and, potentially, judicial review.  We expect to have a  proposed decision from EPA regarding Cholla in 2025.   We cannot predict the outcome of these regulatory proceedings or when EPA will take final action  on those matters that are still pending.  Depending on"
"the eventual outcome, the costs associated with  Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 167  APS’s management of CCR could materially increase, which could affect our financial condition, results of  operations, or cash flows. On April 25, 2024, EPA took final action on a proposal to expand the scope of federal CCR  regulations to address the impacts from historical CCR disposal activities that would have ceased prior to  2015.  This new class of CCR management"
"units (“CCRMUs”), which contain at least 1,000 tons of CCR,  broadly encompass any location at an operating coal-fired power plant where CCR would have been placed  on land.  As proposed, this would include not only historically closed landfills and surface impoundments  but also prior applications of CCR beneficial use (with exceptions for historical roadbed and embankment  applications).  Existing CCR regulatory requirements for groundwater monitoring, corrective action,  closure, post-closure"
"care, and other requirements will be imposed on such CCRMUs.  At this time, APS is  still evaluating the impacts of this final regulation on its business, with initial CCRMU site surveys due to  be completed by February 2026 and final site investigation reports to be finalized by February 2027.   Based on the information available to APS at this time, APS cannot reasonably estimate the fair value of  the entire CCRMU asset retirement obligation.  Depending on the outcome of those evaluations and"
"site  investigations, the costs associated with APS’s management of CCR could materially increase, which  could affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. APS currently disposes of CCR in ash ponds and dry storage areas at Cholla and Four Corners.   The Navajo Plant disposed of CCR only in a dry landfill storage area.  Additionally, the CCR rule requires  ongoing, phased groundwater monitoring.  As of October 2018, APS has completed the statistical analyses  for its"
"CCR disposal units that triggered assessment monitoring.  APS determined that several of its CCR  disposal units at Cholla and Four Corners will need to undergo corrective action.  In addition, under the  current regulations, all such disposal units must have ceased operating and initiated closure as of April 11,  2021 (except for those disposal units subject to alternative closure).  APS completed the assessments of  corrective measures on June 14, 2019; however, additional investigations and"
"engineering analyses that  will support the remedy selection are still underway.  In addition, APS has also solicited input from the  public and hosted public hearings as part of this process.  APS’s estimates for its share of corrective action  and monitoring costs at Four Corners and Cholla are captured within the Asset Retirement Obligations.  As  APS continues to implement the CCR rule’s corrective action assessment process, the current cost  estimates may change.  Given uncertainties that"
"may exist until we have fully completed the corrective  action assessment and final remedy selection process, we cannot predict any ultimate impacts to APS;  however, at this time APS does not believe that any potential changes to the cost estimate from the CCR  rule’s corrective action assessment process for Four Corners or Cholla would have a material impact on its  financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. EPA Power Plant Carbon Regulations.  EPA’s regulation of carbon"
"dioxide emissions from  electric utility power plants has proceeded in fits and starts over most of the last decade.  Starting on  August 3, 2015, EPA finalized the Clean Power Plan, which was the Agency’s first effort at such  regulation through system-wide generation dispatch shifting.  Those regulations were subsequently  repealed by the EPA on June 19, 2019 and replaced by the Affordable Clean Energy (“ACE”) regulations,  which were a far narrower set of rules.  While the U.S. Court of"
"Appeals for the D.C. Circuit subsequently  vacated the ACE regulations on January 19, 2021, and ordered a remand for EPA to develop replacement  regulations consistent with the original 2015 Clean Power Plan, the U.S. Supreme Court subsequently  reversed that decision on June 30, 2022, holding that the Clean Power Plan exceeded EPA’s authority  under the Clean Air Act. Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 168  In the final regulations governing power plant"
"carbon dioxide emissions, released April 25, 2024,  EPA issued emission standards and guidelines for various subcategories of new and existing power plants.   Unlike EPA’s Clean Power Plan regulations from 2015, which took a broad, system-wide approach to  regulating carbon emissions from electric utility fossil-fuel burning power plants, these new federal  regulations are limited to measures that can be installed at individual power plants to limit planet-warming  carbon-dioxide emissions.   As"
"such, for new natural gas-fired combustion turbine power plants, EPA is proposing that carbon  emission performance standards apply based on the annual capacity factors.  For the highest utilization  combustion turbines, EPA is therefore proposing that such facilities be retrofitted for carbon capture and  sequestration or utilization controls (“CCS”) by 2032.  For intermediate or low-load natural gas fired  combustion turbines, those with 40% or less capacity factors, EPA’s regulations would"
"not require add-on  pollution controls.  Instead, natural gas-fired combustion turbines with capacity factors of up to 20% would  be effectively unregulated, while such turbines with capacity factors over 20% and up to 40% would be  subject to carbon dioxide emission rate limitations.  EPA did not finalize standards for existing natural gas- fired combustion turbines but has indicated that it will propose a new set of standards, initiating a separate  rulemaking, for these existing gas-fired"
"power plants within the next year. For coal-fired power plants, instead of imposing regulations based on capacity and utilization, EPA  has finalized subcategories based on planned retirement dates.  This means that facilities retiring before  2032 are effectively exempt from regulation, those that retire between 2032 and 2038 must co-fire with  natural gas starting in 2030, and those that retire in 2039 or later must install CCS controls by 2032.   As of May 10, 2024, several states, electric"
"utility companies, affiliated trade associations, and  other entities filed petitions for review of these regulations in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals.  APS is  participating in that litigation as part of an ad hoc coalition of electric utility companies, independent power  producers, and trade groups, called Electric Generators for a Sensible Transition.  We cannot predict the  outcome of the litigation challenging EPA’s latest carbon emission standards for power plants.  In addition,  the"
"Trump administration has stated that it intends to reverse or substantially revise these standards.  We  cannot predict the outcome of future rulemaking or other regulatory proceedings aimed at changing or  eliminating the current EPA emission standards for power plants. If this regulation remains in effect, it will likely lead to a material increase in APS’s costs to build,  operate, and maintain new, frequently operated gas-fired power plants.  The regulatory deadlines in 2032  by which new,"
"frequently operated gas-fired power plants must install carbon capture and sequestration and  achieve 90% capture efficiency may not be feasible.  Future resource plans and procurement efforts  implicating the development of such new generation remains pending and, as such, at this time APS is not  able to quantify the financial impact associated with EPA’s GHG regulations for power plants. Effluent Limitation Guidelines.  EPA published effluent limitation guidelines (“ELG”) on   October 13,"
"2020, and, based off those guidelines, APS completed a National Pollutant Discharge  Elimination System (“NPDES”) permit modification for Four Corners on December 1, 2023.  The ELG  standards finalized in October 2020 relaxed the “zero discharge” standard for bottom ash transport waters  EPA finalized in September 2015.  However, on April 25, 2024, EPA finalized new ELG regulations that  once again require “zero discharge” standards for flows of bottom ash transport water at power plants like"
"Four Corners.  Nonetheless, for power plants that permanently cease operations by December 31, 2034,  such facilities can continue to comply with the 2020 ELG standards.  APS is currently evaluating its  Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 169  compliance options for Four Corners based on the ELG regulations finalized in April 2024 and is assessing  what impacts the new standards will have on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. EPA"
"Good Neighbor Proposal for Arizona.  On March 15, 2023, EPA issued its final Good  Neighbor Plan for 23 states in order to ensure that the cross-state transport of ozone forming emissions  does not interfere with downwind state compliance with the National Ambient Air Quality Standards  (“NAAQS”).  Thermal power plant emission limitations are a key aspect of these regulations, which  involve emission allowance trading for nitrogen oxide (“NOx”) emissions.  While Arizona was not among  the 23"
"states subject to EPA’s March 2023 final action, EPA announced on January 23, 2024, that it was  proposing to add Arizona and New Mexico (along with two other additional states) to EPA’s NOx  emission allowance trading program finalized last year.  That proposal involves adding these states to the  Good Neighbor Plan and disapproving the corresponding provisions of each state’s State Implementation  Plan.  Because APS operates thermal power plants within Arizona and those portions of the Navajo"
"Nation  within New Mexico, APS’s power plants would be subject to EPA’s Good Neighbor Plan upon finalization  of this proposal.  EPA’s final Good Neighbor Plan is subject to ongoing judicial review in the D.C. Circuit  Court of Appeals.  On June 27, 2024, the U.S. Supreme Court granted a motion to stay the effectiveness of  EPA’s final Good Neighbor Plan pending the resolution of the litigation.  As such, APS will not be  impacted by the Good Neighbor Plan until the outcome of this litigation is"
"finalized.  In addition, on  December 19, 2024, EPA announced that it was withdrawing its proposal to add Arizona (along with other  western states) to the federal Good Neighbor Plan.  As such, while EPA may elect to resume work on and  finalize this proposal in the future, it is unlikely to do so over a near-term horizon.  APS cannot predict the  outcome of any future EPA efforts to add Arizona to the federal Good Neighbor Plan (which depends on  action disapproving the Arizona State"
"Implementation Plan) or whether the Good Neighbor Plan itself will  remain in effect pending the outcome of judicial review in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals.  Should the  Good Neighbor Plan ultimately be imposed on APS and its operations in Arizona and New Mexico, it  would have material impact on both the costs to operate current APS power plants and APS’s ability to  develop new thermal generation to serve load.  At this time, APS cannot predict the impact on the  Company’s financial"
"condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Revised Mercury and Air Toxics Standard (“MATS”) Proposal.  On April 25, 2024, EPA  finalized revisions to the existing MATS regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollution from  existing coal-fired power plants.  The final regulations increase the stringency of filterable particulate  matter limits used to demonstrate compliance with MATS and require the use of continuous emissions  monitoring systems to ensure compliance (as opposed to"
"periodic performance testing).  These final  regulations will take effect for existing coal-fired power plants, such as Four Corners, within three years of  publication in the Federal Register.  Based on APS’s assessment of the revised MATS regulations, this  final rule is unlikely to have a material impact on plant operations or require significant capital  expenditures to ensure compliance. Other environmental rules that could involve material compliance costs include those related to"
"effluent limitations, the ozone national ambient air quality standard and other rules or matters involving the  Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Endangered Species Act, RCRA, Superfund, the Navajo Nation, and  water supplies for our power plants.  The financial impact of complying with current and future  environmental rules could jeopardize the economic viability of APS’s fossil-fuel powered plants or the  willingness or ability of power plant participants to fund any required equipment upgrades"
"or continue their  participation in these plants.  The economics of continuing to own certain resources, particularly our coal  plants, may deteriorate, warranting early retirement of those plants, which may result in asset impairments.   Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 170  APS would seek recovery in rates for the book value of any remaining investments in the plants, as well as  other costs related to early retirement, but cannot predict whether it would"
"obtain such recovery.   Four Corners National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (“NPDES”) Permit The latest NPDES permit for Four Corners was issued on September 30, 2019.  Based upon a  November 1, 2019, filing by several environmental groups, the Environmental Appeals Board (“EAB”)  took up review of the Four Corners NPDES Permit.  The EAB denied the environmental group petition on  September 30, 2020.  While on January 22, 2021, the environmental groups filed a petition for review of"
"the EAB’s decision with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, the parties to the litigation  (including APS) finalized a settlement on May 2, 2022.  This settlement requires investigation of thermal  wastewater discharges from Four Corners, administratively closes the litigation filed in January 2021, and  APS does not expect the outcome to have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations,  or cash flows. BCE Kūpono Solar BCE and Ameresco jointly owned a"
"special purpose entity that sponsored the Kūpono Solar  Project.  This project is a 42 MW solar and battery storage facility in Oʻahu, Hawaii that supplies energy  and capacity under a 20-year power purchase agreement with Hawaiian Electric Company, Inc.  The  Kūpono Solar Project achieved commercial operations in June 2024.  On April 18, 2023, the Kūpono  special purpose entity entered into a $140 million non-recourse construction financing agreement.  On  August 14, 2024, the construction"
"financing converted into long-term financing in the form of a sale- leaseback.  In connection with the project financing, Pinnacle West issued performance guarantees relating  to the Kūpono Solar Project.  Investments in the Kūpono Solar Project were included in the BCE Sale  which closed on January 12, 2024, and as a result of the BCE Sale, Pinnacle West holds no equity or  ownership interest in the Kūpono Solar Project.  As of December 31, 2024, Pinnacle West continues to  maintain performance"
"guarantees relating to the Kūpono Solar Project sale-leaseback financing (see  additional information below regarding these guarantees).  See Note 20 for information relating to the BCE  Sale. Financial Assurances   In the normal course of business, we obtain standby letters of credit and surety bonds from  financial institutions and other third parties.  These instruments guarantee our own future performance and  provide third parties with financial and performance assurance in the event we do"
"not perform.  These  instruments support commodity contract collateral obligations and other transactions.  As of December 31,  2024, standby letters of credit totaled approximately $18 million and surety bonds totaled approximately  $23 million; both will expire through 2025.  The underlying liabilities insured by these instruments are  reflected on our balance sheets, where applicable.  Therefore, no additional liability is reflected for the  letters of credit and surety bonds themselves."
"We enter into agreements that include indemnification provisions relating to liabilities arising from  or related to certain of our agreements.  Most significantly, APS has agreed to indemnify the equity  participants and other parties in the Palo Verde sale leaseback transactions with respect to certain tax  matters.  Generally, a maximum obligation is not explicitly stated in the indemnification provisions and,  therefore, the overall maximum amount of the obligation under such indemnification"
"provisions cannot be  Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 171  reasonably estimated.  Based on historical experience and evaluation of the specific indemnities, we do not  believe that any material loss related to such indemnification provisions is likely.   Pinnacle West has issued parental guarantees and has provided indemnification under certain surety  bonds for APS which were not material at December 31, 2024.  In connection with the sale of 4C"
"Acquisition, LLC’s 7% interest to Navajo Transitional Energy Corporation (“NTEC”), Pinnacle West is  guaranteeing certain obligations that NTEC will have to the other owners of Four Corners.  Pinnacle West  has not needed to perform under this guarantee.  A maximum obligation is not explicitly stated in the  guarantee and, therefore, the overall maximum amount of the obligation under such guarantee cannot be  reasonably estimated; however, we consider the fair value of this guarantee, including"
"expected credit  losses, to be immaterial. In connection with PNW Power’s investments in minority ownership positions in the Clear Creek  wind farm in Missouri and Nobles 2 wind farm in Minnesota, Pinnacle West has guaranteed the obligations  of PNW Power to make production tax credit funding payments to borrowers of the projects (the “PTC  Guarantees”).  The amounts guaranteed by Pinnacle West are reduced as payments are made under the  respective guarantee agreements.  As of December 31, 2024,"
"there is approximately $29 million of  remaining guarantees relating to these PTC Guarantees that are expected to terminate by 2031.  Pinnacle West has issued various performance guarantees in connection with the Kūpono Solar  Project investment financing and is exposed to losses relating to these guarantees upon the occurrence of  certain events that we consider to be remote.  Subsequent to the BCE Sale, Pinnacle West continues to  maintain these guarantees.  See Note 20.  Pinnacle West has not"
"needed to perform under these guarantees.   Maximum obligations are not explicitly stated in the guarantees and cannot be reasonably estimated.   Ameresco is obligated to reimburse Pinnacle West for any payments made by Pinnacle West under such  guarantees.  We consider the fair value of these guarantees, including expected credit losses, to be  immaterial.  The details of the guarantees are as follows:  • Pinnacle West committed to certain performance guarantees tied to the Kūpono Solar Project"
"achieving certain construction and operation milestones.  These performance guarantees  expired in August 2024.  Pinnacle West has no on-going exposure under these construction- related guarantees.    • Under the Kūpono Solar Project sale-leaseback financing, Pinnacle West has committed to  certain performance guarantees that may apply upon the occurrence of specified events, such as  uninsured loss events.  Ameresco has agreed to make efforts to refinance the project and  eliminate these"
"guarantees prior to 2030.  11.   Asset Retirement Obligations    In 2024, the Company revised its cost estimates for existing AROs for the following: • Cholla coal-fired power plant related to the closure of ponds and facilities, which resulted in an  increase to the ARO of approximately $63 million, primarily due to cost estimates associated  with the CCR Rule. • Four Corners coal-fired power plant, which resulted in an increase of approximately  $82 million, primarily due to cost estimates"
"associated with the CCR Rule. Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 172  • Navajo, a decommissioned coal-fired power plant, which resulted in an increase of  approximately $8 million. • Palo Verde nuclear plant, which resulted in an increase of approximately $1 million. • Solar, which resulted in a decrease to the ARO of approximately $11 million, primarily due to  the reduced cost of solar panel disposal. APS has also recorded the initial investigation and"
"assessment costs related to the newly signed  EPA rule for Legacy Impoundments and CCRMUs.  At this time, APS is still estimating the financial  impacts of this final regulation on its business, with initial CCRMU site surveys due to be completed by  February 2026 and final site investigation reports to be finalized by February 2027.  Based on the  information available to APS at this time, APS cannot reasonably estimate the fair value of the entire  CCRMU asset retirement obligation.  Depending"
"on the outcome of those evaluations and site  investigations, the costs associated with APS’s management of CCR could materially increase, which  could affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In 2023, the Company revised its cost estimates for existing ARO for the following: • Cholla coal-fired power plant related to the closure of ponds and facilities, which resulted in an  increase to the ARO of approximately $71 million, primarily due to changes in the planned"
"pond closure methodology and increased corrective action cost estimates associated with the  CCR Rule.  • Four Corners coal-fired power plant, which resulted in a decrease of approximately $7 million. • Navajo coal-fired plant, a decommissioned coal-fired power plant, which resulted in an  increase of approximately $8 million. • Palo Verde received a new decommissioning study, which resulted in an increase to the ARO  in the amount of $63 million, an increase in the plant in service of $59"
"million and a decrease in  the regulatory liability of $4 million. See additional details in Notes 3 and 10. The following table shows the change in our asset retirement obligations (dollars in thousands):   2024 2023 Asset retirement obligations at the beginning of year $  966,001 $  797,762  Changes attributable to:     Accretion expense   56,143   44,269  Settlements   (18,379)   (14,039)  Estimated cash flow revisions   142,821   135,323  Newly incurred obligation   —   2,686  Asset"
"retirement obligations at the end of year $ 1,146,586 $  966,001    In accordance with regulatory accounting, APS accrues removal costs for its regulated utility  assets, even if there is no legal obligation for removal.  See Note 3 for detail of regulatory liabilities. Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 173  12.  Fair Value Measurements     We classify our assets and liabilities that are carried at fair value within the fair value hierarchy.   This hierarchy"
"ranks the quality and reliability of the inputs used to determine fair values, which are then  classified and disclosed in one of three categories.  The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are:   Level 1 — Inputs are unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities at  the measurement date.  Level 2 — Other significant observable inputs, including quoted prices in active markets for  similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active,"
"and model-derived valuations  whose inputs are observable (such as yield curves).     Level 3 — Valuation models with significant unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no  market activity.  Instruments in this category may include long-dated derivative transactions where  valuations are unobservable due to the length of the transaction, options, and transactions in locations  where observable market data does not exist.  The valuation models we employ utilize spot prices, forward"
"prices, historical market data and other factors to forecast future prices.   Assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is  significant to the fair value measurement.  Thus, a valuation may be classified in Level 3 even though the  valuation may include significant inputs that are readily observable.  We maximize the use of observable  inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs.  We rely primarily on the market approach of using"
"prices and other market information for identical and/or comparable assets and liabilities.  If market data is  not readily available, inputs may reflect our own assumptions about the inputs market participants would  use.  Our assessment of the inputs and the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement  requires judgment and may affect the valuation of fair value assets and liabilities as well as their placement  within the fair value hierarchy levels.  We assess whether a"
"market is active by obtaining observable broker  quotes, reviewing actual market activity, and assessing the volume of transactions.  We consider broker  quotes observable inputs when the quote is binding on the broker, we can validate the quote with market  activity, or we can determine that the inputs the broker used to arrive at the quoted price are observable. Certain instruments have been valued using the concept of Net Asset Value (“NAV”) as a practical  expedient.  These instruments are"
"typically structured as investment companies offering shares or units to  multiple investors for the purpose of providing a return.  These instruments are similar to mutual funds;  however, their NAV is generally not published and publicly available, nor are these instruments traded on  an exchange.  Instruments valued using NAV as a practical expedient are included in our fair value  disclosures; however, in accordance with GAAP are not classified within the fair value hierarchy levels."
"Recurring Fair Value Measurements   We apply recurring fair value measurements to cash equivalents, derivative instruments, and  investments held in the nuclear decommissioning trusts and other special use funds.  On an annual basis,  we apply fair value measurements to plan assets held in our retirement and other benefit plans.  See Note 7  for fair value discussion of plan assets held in our retirement and other benefit plans.   Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL"
"STATEMENTS 174  Cash Equivalents   Cash equivalents represent certain investments in money market funds that are valued using quoted  prices in active markets. Risk Management Activities — Energy Derivative Instruments   Exchange traded commodity contracts are valued using unadjusted quoted prices.  For non- exchange traded commodity contracts, we calculate fair value based on the average of the bid and offer  price, discounted to reflect net present value.  We maintain certain valuation"
"adjustments for a number of  risks associated with the valuation of future commitments.  These include valuation adjustments for  liquidity and credit risks.  The liquidity valuation adjustment represents the cost that would be incurred if  all unmatched positions were closed out or hedged.  The credit valuation adjustment represents estimated  credit losses on our net exposure to counterparties, taking into account netting agreements, expected  default experience for the credit rating of the"
"counterparties and the overall diversification of the portfolio.   We maintain credit policies that management believes minimize overall credit risk.   Certain non-exchange traded commodity contracts are valued based on unobservable inputs due to  the long-term nature of contracts, characteristics of the product, or the unique location of the transactions.   Long-dated energy transactions may consist of observable valuations for the near-term portion and  unobservable valuations for the long-"
"term portions of the transaction.  We rely primarily on broker quotes  to value these instruments.  When our valuations utilize broker quotes, we perform various control  procedures to ensure the quote has been developed consistent with fair value accounting guidance.  These  controls include assessing the quote for reasonableness by comparison against other broker quotes,  reviewing historical price relationships, and assessing market activity.  When broker quotes are not  available, the"
"primary valuation technique used to calculate the fair value is the extrapolation of forward  pricing curves using observable market data for more liquid delivery points in the same region and actual  transactions at more illiquid delivery points.   When the unobservable portion is significant to the overall valuation of the transaction, the entire  transaction is classified as Level 3.    Investments Held in Nuclear Decommissioning Trusts and Other Special Use Funds   The nuclear"
"decommissioning trusts and other special use funds invest in fixed income and equity  securities.  Other special use funds include the coal reclamation escrow account, the active union employee  medical account, and the Captive.  See Note 18 for additional discussion about our investment accounts. We value investments in fixed income and equity securities using information provided by our  trustees and escrow agent.  Our trustees and escrow agent use pricing services that utilize the valuation"
"methodologies described below to determine fair market value.  We have internal control procedures  designed to ensure this information is consistent with fair value accounting guidance.  These procedures  include assessing valuations using an independent pricing source, verifying that pricing can be supported  by actual recent market transactions, assessing hierarchy classifications, comparing investment returns with  benchmarks, and obtaining and reviewing independent audit reports on the"
"trustees’ and escrow agent’s  internal operating controls and valuation processes. Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 175  Fixed Income Securities Fixed income securities issued by the U.S. Treasury are valued using quoted active market prices  and are typically classified as Level 1.  Fixed income securities issued by corporations, municipalities, and  other agencies, including mortgage-backed instruments, are valued using quoted inactive market prices,"
"quoted active market prices for similar securities, or by utilizing calculations which incorporate observable  inputs such as yield curves and spreads relative to such yield curves.  These fixed income instruments are  classified as Level 2.  Whenever possible, multiple market quotes are obtained which enables a cross-check  validation.  A primary price source is identified based on asset type, class, or issue of securities. Fixed income securities may also include short-term investments in"
"certificates of deposit, variable  rate notes, time deposit accounts, U.S. Treasury and Agency obligations, U.S. Treasury repurchase  agreements, commercial paper, and other short-term instruments.  These instruments are valued using  active market prices or utilizing observable inputs described above.   Equity Securities The nuclear decommissioning trusts’ equity security investments are held indirectly through  commingled funds.  The commingled funds are valued using the funds’ NAV as a"
"practical expedient.  The  funds’ NAV is primarily derived from the quoted active market prices of the underlying equity securities  held by the funds.  We may transact in these commingled funds on a semi-monthly basis at the NAV.  The  commingled funds are maintained by a bank and hold investments in accordance with the stated objective  of tracking the performance of the S&P 500 Index.  Because the commingled funds’ shares are offered to a  limited group of investors, they are not considered"
"to be traded in an active market.  As these instruments  are valued using NAV, as a practical expedient, they have not been classified within the fair value  hierarchy. The nuclear decommissioning trusts and other special use funds may also hold equity securities that  include exchange traded mutual funds and money market accounts for short-term liquidity purposes.  These  short-term, highly-liquid investments are valued using active market prices.  Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO"
"CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 176  Fair Value Tables The following table presents the fair value at December 31, 2024, of our assets and liabilities that  are measured at fair value on a recurring basis (dollars in thousands): Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Other Total ASSETS Cash equivalents $  23 $  — $  — $  —  $  23  Risk management activities —  derivative instruments: Commodity contracts   —   13,152   7,176   (3,770) (a)   16,558  Nuclear decommissioning trusts: Equity securities   11,859"
"542   —   3,335 (b)   15,736  U.S. commingled equity funds   —   —   —   423,069 (c)   423,069  U.S. Treasury debt   367,396   —   —   —    367,396  Corporate debt   —   203,180   —   —    203,180  Mortgage-backed securities   —   208,533   —   —    208,533  Municipal bonds   —   37,429   —   —    37,429  Other fixed income   —   27,502   —   —    27,502  Subtotal nuclear decommissioning trusts   379,255   477,186   —   426,404   1,282,845  Other special use funds: Cash equivalents   25,000   —"
"—   — (d) $  25,000  Equity securities   24,962   —   —   2,851 (b,d)   27,813  U.S. Treasury debt   355,544   —   —   —    355,544  Subtotal other special use funds (d)   405,506   —   —   2,851    408,357  Total assets $  784,784 $  490,338 $  7,176 $ 425,485  $ 1,707,783  LIABILITIES Risk management activities —  derivative instruments: Commodity contracts $  — $  (40,388) $  (22,215) $  817 (a) $  (61,786)  (a) Represents counterparty netting, margin, and collateral.  See Note 15. (b)"
"Represents net pending securities sales and purchases. (c) Valued using NAV as a practical expedient and, therefore, are not classified in the fair value hierarchy. (d) All amounts relate to APS, with the exception of $34.2 million related to Pinnacle West’s Captive  investments that are classified within Level 1, $25.0 million in cash equivalents and $9.2 million related to  equity securities.  See Note 17.   Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 177   The"
"following table presents the fair value at December 31, 2023, of our assets and liabilities that  are measured at fair value on a recurring basis (dollars in thousands):   Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Other Total ASSETS Cash equivalents $  10 $  — $  — $  —  $  10  Risk management activities —  derivative instruments: Commodity contracts   —   1,881   6,616   (1,689) (a)   6,808  Nuclear decommissioning trusts: Equity securities   11,064   —   —   (767) (b)   10,297  U.S. commingled equity funds   —"
"—   —   409,616 (c)   409,616  U.S. Treasury debt   319,734   —   —   —    319,734  Corporate debt   —   188,317   —   —    188,317  Mortgage-backed securities   —   208,306   —   —    208,306  Municipal bonds   —   59,323   —   —    59,323  Other fixed income   —   5,653   —   —    5,653  Subtotal nuclear decommissioning trusts   330,798   461,599   —   408,849    1,201,246  Other special use funds: Equity securities   40,991   —   —   2,196 (b)   43,187  U.S. Treasury debt   319,594   —   —"
"—    319,594  Subtotal other special use funds   360,585   —   —   2,196    362,781  Total assets $  691,393 $  463,480 $  6,616 $  409,356  $ 1,570,845  LIABILITIES Risk management activities —  derivative instruments: Commodity contracts $  — $ (127,016) $  (1,695) $  4,823 (a) $ (123,888)  (a) Represents counterparty netting, margin, and collateral.  See Note 15. (b) Represents net pending securities sales and purchases. (c) Valued using NAV as a practical expedient and, therefore, are not"
"classified in the fair value hierarchy.    Fair Value Measurements Classified as Level 3   The significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement of our energy derivative  contracts include broker quotes that cannot be validated as an observable input primarily due to the long- term nature of the quote or other characteristics of the product.  Significant changes in these inputs in  isolation would result in significantly higher or lower fair value measurements.  Changes in our"
"derivative  contract fair values, including changes relating to unobservable inputs, typically will not impact net income  due to regulatory accounting treatment.  See Note 3.   Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 178  Because our forward commodity contracts classified as Level 3 are currently in a net purchase  position, we would expect price increases of the underlying commodity to result in increases in the net fair  value of the related contracts."
"Conversely, if the price of the underlying commodity decreases, the net fair  value of the related contracts would likely decrease. Other unobservable valuation inputs include credit and liquidity reserves which do not have a  material impact on our valuations; however, significant changes in these inputs could also result in higher  or lower fair value measurements. The following tables provide information regarding our significant unobservable inputs used to  value our risk management"
"derivative Level 3 instruments at December 31, 2024, and December 31, 2023: December 31, 2024  Fair Value (thousands)  Valuation Significant Weighted- Average Commodity Contracts Assets Liabilities Technique Unobservable Input Range  (b) Electricity Forward  Contracts (a) $  708 $  21,890  Discounted  cash flows Electricity forward  price (per MWh) $25.25 - $151.11 $106.06 Natural Gas Forward  Contracts (a)   6,468   325  Discounted  cash flows Natural gas forward  price (per MMBtu) $(0.89) -"
"$1.47 $0.71 Total $  7,176 $  22,215  (a) Includes swaps and physical and financial contracts. (b) Unobservable inputs were weighted by the relative fair value of the instrument.  December 31, 2023  Fair Value  (thousands)  Valuation Significant Weighted- Average Commodity Contracts Assets Liabilities Technique Unobservable Input Range (b) Electricity Forward  Contracts (a) $  6,587 $  658  Discounted  cash flows Electricity forward  price (per MWh) $ 37.79 - $259.04 $158.08 Natural Gas Forward"
"Contracts (a)   29   1,037  Discounted  cash flows Natural gas forward  price (per MMBtu) $0.00 - $0.08 $0.03 Total $  6,616 $  1,695  (a) Includes swaps and physical and financial contracts. (b) Unobservable inputs were weighted by the relative fair value of the instrument. Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 179  The following table shows the changes in fair value for our risk management activities’ assets  and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a"
"recurring basis using Level 3 inputs (dollars in  thousands):   Year Ended  December 31, Commodity Contracts 2024 2023 Balance at beginning of period $  4,921 $ (4,888)  Total net losses realized/unrealized: Deferred as a regulatory asset or liability  (60,965)  (70,214)  Settlements   44,156   69,706  Transfers into Level 3 from Level 2   (4,635)   (1,289)  Transfers from Level 3 into Level 2   1,484   11,606  Balance at end of period $ (15,039) $  4,921  Net unrealized gains/losses included in"
"earnings related to instruments still held at end of period $  — $  —               Transfers in or out of Level 3 are typically related to our long-dated energy transactions that  extend beyond available quoted periods. Financial Instruments Not Carried at Fair Value   The carrying value of our short-term borrowings approximate fair value and are classified within  Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.  See Note 6 for our long-term debt fair values.   13.  Common Stock Equity and Earnings Per"
"Share   ATM Program On November 8, 2024, Pinnacle West entered into an equity distribution sales agreement, pursuant  to which Pinnacle West may sell, from time to time, up to $900 million of its common stock through an  ATM program, which includes the ability to enter into forward sale agreements.  As of December 31, 2024,  approximately $850 million of common stock is available to be issued under the ATM Program, which  takes into account the forward sale agreement in effect as of December 31,"
"2024.   As of December 31, 2024, Pinnacle West had an outstanding forward sale agreement under the  ATM program relating to approximately $50 million of common stock (the “November 2024 ATM  Forward Sale Agreement”).  The November 2024 ATM Forward Sale Agreement may be settled at  Pinnacle West’s discretion no later than June 30, 2026.  On a given settlement date, Pinnacle West will  issue shares of common at the then-applicable forward sales price.  The terms of the November 2024 ATM  Forward"
"Sale Agreement also allow Pinnacle West, at its option, to settle the agreements with the  counterparties by delivering cash, in lieu of shares.  The initial forward sales price for the November 2024 ATM Forward Sale Agreement was  approximately $89.73, subject to certain adjustments.  On December 31, 2024, Pinnacle West could have  settled the outstanding November 2024 ATM Forward Sale Agreement with the physical delivery of  552,833 shares of Pinnacle West common stock in exchange for cash of"
"approximately $50 million.  As of  December 31, 2024, Pinnacle West has not received any proceeds relating to the November 2024 Forward  Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 180  Sale Agreement.  Pinnacle West will receive proceeds, if any, when settlement occurs, and will record the  proceeds, if any, in equity.  Non-ATM February 2024 Forward Sale Agreements On February 28, 2024, Pinnacle West executed equity forward sale agreements, relating to   11,240,601"
"shares of Pinnacle West common stock (“February 2024 Forward Sale Agreements”).  The  February 2024 Forward Sale Agreements may be settled at our discretion no later than September 4, 2025,  and were not issued under the ATM program discussed above.  On a settlement date, Pinnacle West will  issue shares of Pinnacle West common stock and receive cash, if any, at the then-applicable forward  sales price.  The terms of the February 2024 Forward Sale Agreements also allow Pinnacle West, at its"
"option, to settle the agreements with the counterparties by delivering cash, in lieu of shares. The initial forward sales price for the February 2024 Forward Sale Agreements was initially,  approximately $64.51 per share and is subject to adjustment based on the terms of the agreements.  In  December 2024, Pinnacle West partially settled the February 2024 Forward Sale Agreements with the  issuance of 5,377,115 shares of common stock and received net proceeds of $345 million.  The proceeds  were"
"recorded in equity.   At December 31, 2024, Pinnacle West could have settled the remaining February 2024 Forward  Sale Agreements with the issuance of 5,863,486 shares of common stock in exchange for cash of  $377 million.  We will not receive any additional proceeds, if any, from the February 2024 Forward Sale  Agreements until settlement occurs.   Convertible Notes In June 2024, Pinnacle West issued $525 million of 4.75% convertible senior notes that will mature  on June 15, 2027.  The"
"Convertible Notes conversion options are indexed to Pinnacle West’s common  stock.  See Note 5. Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 181  Earnings Per Share The following table presents the calculation of Pinnacle West’s basic and diluted EPS (in  thousands, except per share amounts):   2024 2023 2022 Net income attributable to common shareholders $  608,806 $  501,557 $  483,602  Weighted average common shares outstanding — basic   113,846   113,442   113,196"
"Net effect of dilutive securities:       Contingently issuable performance shares and restricted stock units   480   362   220  Dilutive shares related to equity forward sale agreements (a)   1,906   —   —  Total contingently issuable shares   2,386   362   220  Weighted average common shares outstanding — diluted   116,232   113,804   113,416  Earnings per weighted-average common share outstanding Net income attributable to common shareholders — basic $  5.35 $  4.42 $  4.27  Net income"
"attributable to common shareholders — diluted $  5.24 $  4.41 $  4.26  (a)  For the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, diluted weighted average common shares excludes  1,038,463, 0 and 0 shares, respectively, relating to the Convertible Notes and the ATM equity forward.  These  potentially issuable shares were excluded from the calculation of diluted shares as their inclusion would have  been antidilutive.  The November 2024 ATM Forward Sale Agreements and the February 2024 Forward"
"Sale  Agreements are classified as equity transactions, and are not recorded on the Pinnacle West Consolidated  Balance Sheets.  Delivery of shares to settle equity forward agreements result in dilution to basic earnings  per share (EPS) upon settlement.  Prior to settlement, the potentially issuable shares are reflected in our  diluted EPS calculations using the treasury stock method.  Under this method, the number of shares, if any,  that would be issued upon settlement less that number of"
"shares that could be purchased by Pinnacle West  in the market with the proceeds received from issuance (based on the average market price during the  reporting period).  Share dilution occurs when the average market price of our stock during the reporting  period is higher than the adjusted forward sale price as of the end of the reporting period.  14.  Stock-Based Compensation    Pinnacle West has incentive compensation plans under which stock-based compensation is granted  to officers, key"
"employees, and non-officer members of the Board of Directors.  Awards granted under the  2021 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended (“2021 Plan”), may be in the form of stock grants, restricted  stock units, stock units, performance shares, restricted stock, dividend equivalents, performance share  units, performance cash, incentive and non-qualified stock options, and stock appreciation rights.  The  2021 Plan authorizes up to 4.3 million common shares to be available for grant.  As of December"
"31, 2024,  2.9 million common shares were available for issuance under the 2021 Plan.  During 2024, 2023 and 2022,  the Company granted awards in the form of restricted stock units, stock units, stock grants, and  performance shares.  Awards granted from 2012 to May 2021 were issued under the 2012 Long-Term  Incentive Plan (“2012 Plan”), and awards granted from 2007 to 2011 were issued under the 2007 Long- Term Incentive Plan (“2007 Plan”).  No new awards may be granted under the 2012 or 2007"
"Plans. Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 182  Stock-Based Compensation Expense and Activity   Compensation cost included in net income for stock-based compensation plans was $24 million in  2024, $17 million in 2023, and $16 million in 2022.  The compensation cost capitalized is immaterial for  all years.  Income tax benefits related to stock-based compensation arrangements were $6 million in 2024,  $3 million in 2023, and $2 million in 2022.  As of December"
"31, 2024, there were approximately $38 million of unrecognized compensation  costs related to nonvested stock-based compensation arrangements.  We expect to recognize these costs  over a weighted-average period of two years.   The total fair value of shares vested was $24 million in 2024, $24 million in 2023, and $25 million  in 2022.    The following table is a summary of awards granted and the weighted-average grant date fair value  for each of the last three years: Restricted Stock Units,"
"Stock  Grants, and Stock Units (a) Performance Shares (b)   2024 2023 2022 2024 2023 2022 Units granted  261,808  192,295  174,791  225,516  202,562  208,736  Weighted-average grant date fair value $ 71.10 $ 74.32 $ 69.66 $ 72.89 $ 79.61 $ 77.63  (a) The Units granted does not include awards that will be cash settled in 2024, 2023 or 2022.  See  below for additional information on restricted stock unit grants. (b) Reflects the target payout level.   The following table shows the change of"
"nonvested awards: Restricted Stock Units, Stock  Grants, and Stock Units Performance Shares Shares Weighted- Average Grant Date Fair Value Shares (b) Weighted- Average Grant Date Fair Value Nonvested at December 31, 2023   374,367  $  73.29   347,283 $  77.29  Granted   261,808    71.10   225,516   72.89  Vested   (155,345)    74.54   (165,194)   76.55  Forfeited (c)   (20,039)    71.32   (17,054)   75.69  Nonvested at December 31, 2024   460,791 (a)   71.72   390,551   77.29  Vested Awards"
"Outstanding at December 31,  2024   70,851    165,194  (a) Includes 11,750 of awards that will be cash settled. (b) The performance shares are reflected at target payout level.   (c) We account for forfeitures as they occur.   Share-based liabilities paid relating to restricted stock units were $8 million, $6 million, and $3  million in 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively.  This includes cash used to settle restricted stock units of $2  Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL"
"STATEMENTS 183  million, $3 million, and $3 million in 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively.  Restricted stock units that are  cash settled are classified as liability awards.  All performance shares are classified as equity awards.     Restricted Stock Units, Stock Grants, and Stock Units    Restricted stock units are granted to officers and key employees and typically vest and settle in  equal annual installments over a 4-year period after the grant date.  Vesting is typically dependent upon"
"continuous service during the vesting period. Beginning in 2022, restricted stock unit awards are issued in stock.  Awards include a dividend  equivalent feature that allows each award to accrue dividends and treat them as reinvested, from the date of  grant until the applicable vesting date.  If the award is forfeited the employee is not entitled to the accrued  reinvested dividends on those shares.  Awards granted to retirement-eligible employees will vest on a pro- rata basis upon the"
"employee’s retirement.   Prior to 2022, awardees typically elected to receive payment in either 100% stock, 100% cash, or  50% in cash and 50% in stock.  Awards included a dividend equivalent feature that accrued dividend rights  from the date of grant until the applicable vesting date, plus interest compounded quarterly.  If the award  was forfeited, the employee was not entitled to the accrued dividends on those shares.  Awards granted to  retirement-eligible employees typically vested upon"
"the employee’s retirement. Compensation cost for restricted stock unit awards is based on the fair value of the award, with the  fair value being the market price of our stock on the measurement date.  Restricted stock unit awards that  will be settled in cash are accounted for as liability awards, with compensation cost initially calculated on  the date of grant using the Company’s closing stock price and remeasured at each balance sheet date.   Restricted stock unit awards that will be settled"
"in shares are accounted for as equity awards, with  compensation cost calculated using the Company’s closing stock price on the date of grant.  Compensation  cost is recognized over the requisite service period based on the fair value of the award.    Stock grants are issued to non-officer members of the Board of Directors.  They may elect to  receive the stock grant, or to defer receipt until a later date and receive stock units in lieu of the stock grant.   Beginning in 2023, payments for"
"stock units are issued in stock and include a dividend equivalent feature  that allows each award to accrue dividends and treat them as reinvested, from the date of grant until the  applicable vesting date.  Prior to 2023, members of the Board of Directors who elected to defer could elect  to receive payment in either 100% stock, 100% cash, or 50% in cash and 50% in stock.  The stock units  prior to 2023 included a dividend equivalent feature that accrues dividend rights from the date of grant"
"to  the date of payment, plus interest compounded quarterly.   Performance Share Awards   Performance share awards are granted to officers and key employees.  The awards contain separate  performance metric criteria that affect the number of shares that may be received if, after the end of a 3- year performance period, the performance criteria are met.  Beginning in 2022, performance share awards contain three separate, unrelated performance  criteria.  The first performance criteria is based"
"upon Pinnacle West’s total shareholder return (“TSR”) in  relation to the TSR of other companies in a specified utility index (i.e., the TSR component).  The second  performance criteria is based upon Pinnacle West’s earnings per share (“EPS”) performance relative to an  Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 184  approved target (i.e., the EPS component).  The third performance criteria is based upon APS’s clean MW  installed of renewable or other carbon free"
"resources compared to the approved target (i.e., the Clean  component).  The exact number of shares issued is calculated separately for each performance component  and can vary from 0% to 200% of the target award for each separate performance criteria.  Shares received  include a dividend equivalent feature that treats accrued dividends as reinvested, from the date of grant  until the date of payment, equal to the number of vested performance shares.  If the award is forfeited or if  the"
"performance criteria are not achieved, the employee is not entitled to the dividends on those shares.   Awards granted to retirement-eligible employees will vest on a pro-rata basis upon the employee’s  retirement.    Prior to 2022, performance share awards had two performance criteria.  The first performance  criteria was based upon non-financial performance metrics (i.e., the Metric component).  The second  performance criteria was based upon Pinnacle West’s TSR in relation to the TSR of other"
"companies in a  specified utility index (i.e., the TSR component).  The exact number of shares issued will vary from 0% to  200% of the target award.  Shares received included a dividend equivalent feature that allows accrued  dividend rights from the date of grant until the date of payment, plus interest compounded quarterly, equal  to the number of vested performance shares.  If the award was forfeited, the employee was not entitled to  the accrued dividends on those shares.  Awards granted to"
"retirement-eligible employees typically vested  upon the employee’s retirement.   Performance share awards are accounted for as equity awards, with compensation cost based on the  fair value of the award on the grant date.  Compensation cost relating to the EPS and Clean metric  component of the respective awards is based on the Company’s closing stock price on the date of grant,  with compensation cost recognized over the requisite service period based on the number of shares  expected to vest."
"Management evaluates the probability of meeting the EPS and Clean metric component  at each balance sheet date.  If the EPS and Clean metric component criteria are not ultimately achieved, no  compensation cost is recognized relating to the EPS and Clean metric component, and any previously  recognized compensation cost is reversed.  Compensation cost relating to the TSR component of the  respective awards is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation valuation model, with compensation cost"
"recognized ratably over the requisite service period, regardless of the number of shares that actually vest.   15.  Derivative Accounting     Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to commodity price and  transportation costs of electricity, natural gas, emissions allowances, and interest rates.  Risks associated  with market volatility are managed by utilizing various physical and financial derivative instruments,  including futures, forwards, options, and swaps.  As part"
"of our overall risk management program, we may  use derivative instruments to hedge purchases and sales of electricity and natural gas.  Derivative  instruments that meet certain hedge accounting criteria may be designated as cash flow hedges and are  used to limit our exposure to cash flow variability on forecasted transactions.  The changes in market value  of such instruments have a high correlation to price changes in the hedged transactions.  Derivative  instruments are also entered into"
"for economic hedging purposes.  While economic hedges may mitigate  exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices, these instruments have not been designated as accounting  hedges.  Contracts that have the same terms (quantities, delivery points and delivery periods) and for which  power does not flow are netted, which reduces both revenues and fuel and purchased power costs in our  Consolidated Statements of Income, but does not impact our financial condition, net income, or cash flows.    Table"
"of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 185  Our derivative instruments, excluding those qualifying for a scope exception, are recorded on the  balance sheets as an asset or liability and are measured at fair value.  See Note 12 for a discussion of fair  value measurements.  Derivative instruments may qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales scope  exception if they require physical delivery, and the quantities represent those transacted in the normal  course of"
"business.  Derivative instruments qualifying for the normal purchases and sales scope exception  are accounted for under the accrual method of accounting and excluded from our derivative instrument  discussion and disclosures below. See Note 13 for details relating to Pinnacle West’s equity forward sale agreements and Note 5 for  Pinnacle West’s Convertible Notes.  These equity-linked transactions are indexed to Pinnacle West  common stock and qualify for a derivative scope exception, and as"
"such, are not subject to mark-to-market  accounting and are excluded from the derivative disclosures below.  Energy Derivatives For its regulated operations, APS defers for future rate treatment 100% of the unrealized gains and  losses on energy derivatives pursuant to the PSA mechanism that would otherwise be recognized in  income.  Realized gains and losses on energy derivatives are deferred in accordance with the PSA to the  extent the amounts are above or below the Base Fuel Rate.  See Note"
"3.  Gains and losses from energy  derivatives in the following tables represent the amounts reflected in income before the effect of PSA  deferrals. The following table shows the outstanding gross notional volume of energy derivatives, which  represent both purchases and sales (does not reflect net position): Quantity Commodity Unit of Measure December 31, 2024 December 31, 2023 Power GWh   1,051   1,212  Gas Billion cubic feet   235   200    Gains and Losses from Energy Derivative Instruments"
"For the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, APS had no energy derivative instruments  in designated accounting hedging relationships.    The following table provides information about gains and losses from energy derivative  instruments not designated as accounting hedging instruments (dollars in thousands): Financial Statement  Year Ended December 31, Commodity Contracts Location 2024 2023 2022 Net Gain (Loss) Recognized in Income Fuel and purchased  power (a)   (88,522)   (370,145)"
"307,287  (a) Amounts are before the effect of PSA deferrals. Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 186  Energy Derivative Instruments in the Consolidated Balance Sheets Our energy derivative transactions are typically executed under standardized or customized  agreements, which include collateral requirements and, in the event of a default, would allow for the  netting of positive and negative exposures associated with a single counterparty.  Agreements that"
"allow  for the offsetting of positive and negative exposures associated with a single counterparty are considered  master netting arrangements.  Transactions with counterparties that have master netting arrangements are  offset and reported net on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Transactions that do not allow for offsetting of  positive and negative positions are reported gross on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We do not offset a counterparty’s current energy derivative contracts with the"
"counterparty’s non- current energy derivative contracts, although our master netting arrangements would allow current and  non-current positions to be offset in the event of a default.  These types of transactions may include non- derivative instruments, derivatives qualifying for scope exceptions, trade receivables and trade payables  arising from settled positions, and other forms of non-cash collateral (such as letters of credit).  These types  of transactions are excluded from the offsetting"
"tables presented below. The following tables provide information about the fair value of APS’s risk management activities  reported on a gross basis and the impacts of offsetting.  These amounts relate to commodity contracts and  are located in the assets and liabilities from risk management activities lines of APS’s Consolidated  Balance Sheets. As of December 31, 2024:  (dollars in thousands)  Gross  Recognized  Derivatives  (a) Amounts  Offset (b) Net  Recognized  Derivatives Other  (c)"
"Amounts  Reported on  Balance Sheets Current assets $  13,718 $  (3,158) $  10,560 $  18 $  10,578  Investments and other assets   6,610   (630)   5,980   —   5,980  Total assets   20,328   (3,788)   16,540   18   16,558  Current liabilities   (52,527)   3,158   (49,369)   (2,971)   (52,340)  Deferred credits and other   (10,076)   630   (9,446)   —   (9,446)  Total liabilities   (62,603)   3,788   (58,815)   (2,971)   (61,786)  Total $  (42,275) $  — $  (42,275) $  (2,953) $  (45,228)  (a) All"
"of our gross recognized derivative instruments were subject to master netting arrangements. (b) No cash collateral has been provided to counterparties, or received from counterparties, that is subject to  offsetting.  (c) Represents cash collateral and cash margin that is not subject to offsetting.  Amounts relate to non-derivative  instruments, derivatives qualifying for scope exceptions, or collateral and margin posted in excess of the  recognized derivative instrument.  Includes cash"
"collateral received from counterparties of $2,971 thousand  and cash margin provided to counterparties of $18 thousand. Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 187  As of December 31, 2023:  (dollars in thousands)  Gross  Recognized  Derivatives  (a) Amounts Offset  (b) Net  Recognized  Derivatives Other  (c) Amounts  Reported on  Balance Sheets Current assets $  8,497 $  (1,694) $  6,803 $  5 $  6,808  Investments and other assets   —   —   —   —   —  Total assets"
"8,497   (1,694)   6,803   5   6,808  Current liabilities   (85,736)   10,894   (74,842)   (6,071)   (80,913)  Deferred credits and other   (42,975)   —   (42,975)   —   (42,975)  Total liabilities   (128,711)   10,894   (117,817)   (6,071)   (123,888)  Total $ (120,214) $  9,200 $ (111,014) $  (6,066) $  (117,080)  (a) All of our gross recognized derivative instruments were subject to master netting arrangements. (b) Includes cash collateral provided to counterparties of $9,200 thousand that is"
"subject to offsetting. (c) Represents cash collateral and cash margin that is not subject to offsetting.  Amounts relate to non-derivative  instruments, derivatives qualifying for scope exceptions, or collateral and margin posted in excess of the  recognized derivative instrument.  Includes cash collateral received from counterparties of $6,071 thousand  and cash margin provided to counterparties of $5 thousand. Credit Risk and Credit Related Contingent Features   We are exposed to losses in the"
"event of nonperformance or nonpayment by energy derivative  counterparties and have risk management contracts with many energy derivative counterparties.  As of  December 31, 2024, we have one counterparty for which our exposure represents approximately 26% of  Pinnacle West’s $16.6 million of risk management assets.  This exposure relates to an ISDA master  agreement with the respective counterparty.  The counterparty is rated as investment grade by Standard &  Poor’s.  Our risk management"
"process assesses and monitors the financial exposure of all counterparties.   Despite the fact that the great majority of our trading counterparties’ debt is rated as investment grade by  the credit rating agencies, there is still a possibility that one or more of these counterparties could default,  resulting in a material impact on consolidated earnings for a given period.  Counterparties in the portfolio  consist principally of financial institutions, major energy companies, municipalities"
"and local distribution  companies.  We maintain credit policies that we believe minimize overall credit risk to within acceptable  limits.  Determination of the credit quality of our counterparties is based upon a number of factors,  including credit ratings and our evaluation of their financial condition.  To manage credit risk, we employ  collateral requirements and standardized agreements that allow for the netting of positive and negative  exposures associated with a single counterparty."
"Valuation adjustments are established representing our  estimated credit losses on our overall exposure to counterparties.   Certain of our energy derivative instrument contracts contain credit-risk-related contingent features  including, among other things, investment grade credit rating provisions, credit-related cross-default  provisions, and adequate assurance provisions.  Adequate assurance provisions allow a counterparty with  reasonable grounds for uncertainty to demand additional"
"collateral based on subjective events and/or  conditions.  For those energy derivative instruments in a net liability position, with investment grade credit  contingencies, the counterparties could demand additional collateral if our debt credit rating were to fall  below investment grade (below BBB- for Standard & Poor’s or Fitch or Baa3 for Moody’s).   Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 188  The following table provides information about our energy"
"derivative instruments that have credit- risk-related contingent features (dollars in thousands):   December 31, 2024 Aggregate fair value of derivative instruments in a net liability position $  62,603  Additional collateral in the event credit-risk related contingent features were fully triggered (a)   32,728  (a) This amount is after counterparty netting and includes those contracts which qualify for scope exceptions,  which are excluded from the derivative details above.   We also have"
"energy related non-derivative instrument contracts, including energy storage lease  contracts, with investment grade credit-related contingent features, which could also require us to post  additional collateral of approximately $416 million if our debt credit ratings were to fall below investment  grade. 16.  Other Income and Other Expense    The following table provides detail of Pinnacle West’s Consolidated other income and other  expense for 2024, 2023, and 2022 (dollars in thousands):"
"2024 2023 2022 Other income:       Interest income $  24,322 (a) $  27,242 (a) $  7,326  Gain on sale of BCE (Note 20)   22,988    6,205    —  Miscellaneous   1,304    219    590  Total other income $  48,614  $  33,666  $  7,916  Other expense: Non-operating costs $  (27,370) (b) $  (15,260)  $  (18,619)  Investment losses — net   (1,418)    (3,402)    (20,537) (c) Miscellaneous   (5,348)    (6,394)    (13,229)  Total other expense $  (34,136)  $  (25,056)  $  (52,385)  (a) The 2023 and 2024"
"Interest income is primarily related to PSA Interest.  See Note 3. (b) The 2024 Non-operating cost is primarily related to corporate giving. (c) The 2022 investment loss is primarily related to an impairment of PNW Power’s Clear Creek  wind farm investment.    Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 189   The following table provides detail of APS’s other income and other expense for 2024, 2023, and 2022  (dollars in thousands):   2024 2023 2022 Other income:"
"Interest income (a) $  21,088 (a) $  26,853 (a) $  5,332  Miscellaneous   6    219    556   Total other income $  21,094  $  27,072  $  5,888  Other expense: Non-operating costs $  (26,588) (b) $  (14,070)  $  (15,579)  Miscellaneous   (3,110)    (4,194)    (10,529)  Total other expense $  (29,698)  $  (18,264)  $  (26,108)  (a) The 2023 and 2024 Interest income is primarily related to PSA Interest.  See Note 3. (b) The 2024 Non-operating cost is primarily related to corporate giving. 17."
"Variable Interest Entities    Pinnacle West Captive Insurance Cell VIE To support our overall insurance program, Pinnacle West established a captive insurance cell to  insure certain risks of Pinnacle West and our subsidiaries.  The Captive is a protected separate cell captive  insurance company sponsored by Energy Insurance Services, Inc (“EISI”).  EISI is owned by Energy  Insurance Mutual Limited Company and allows participating member sponsoring organizations, such as  Pinnacle West, to"
"insure risks using captive entities.  Pinnacle West, through its contractual rights, has a  controlling financial interest in the separate protected Captive cell’s assets.  Pinnacle West obtains all the  benefits from the Captive and makes all the primary controlling decisions that economically impact the  Captive.  As a separate protected cell, Pinnacle West is the Captive’s only participant.  The Captive is a  VIE for which Pinnacle West is the primary beneficiary.  Accordingly, Pinnacle West"
"consolidates the  Captive.   Under a mutual business program participation agreement between the Captive and EISI, EISI will  issue policies, make claim disbursements, claim expenses and other underwriting fees on behalf of the  Captive, as necessary. The Captive insures Pinnacle West and its subsidiaries for terrorism coverage, excess liability  including certain wildfire coverage, excess property insurance, and excess employment practice liability.   The Captive policies exclude nuclear"
"liability at Palo Verde.  See Note 10 for details regarding nuclear  liability insurance.  Claim payments to the insureds can only be made up to the amount of the Captive’s  available assets.  In the event that claims exceed the Captive’s available assets, Pinnacle West may be  required to provide additional funding to the Captive.  In addition to policies obtained through the Captive,  Pinnacle West also has insurance policies purchased through third-party insurers that may provide  coverage if"
"a loss event occurs.   As a result of consolidation, we eliminate intercompany transactions between Pinnacle West and  the Captive and record the Captive’s assets, liabilities and third-party operating activities.  In consolidation,  Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 190  the Captive’s insurance premium revenues derived from Pinnacle West policies is eliminated against the  insurance premium expense recorded by Pinnacle West and our subsidiaries relating to"
"insurance policy  coverage provided by the Captive.  Consolidation primarily resulted in Pinnacle West reflecting the  Captive’s investment holdings on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, and the Captive’s investment gains and  losses reflected through earnings on our Consolidated Income Statements.  Consolidation of the Captive resulted in an increase in Pinnacle West net income of $5 million for  2024, and zero for 2023 and 2022.  These amounts are fully attributable to Pinnacle West"
"shareholders.   Consolidation impacts Pinnacle West Consolidated Income Statement’s operations and maintenance  expense and other income line items.   Pinnacle West’s Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2024 include $34 million of  assets relating to the Captive that is reported within the other special use funds line item.  See Notes 12 and  18 for additional details on these investment holdings.  Our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of  December 31, 2023, include $5 million of assets"
"relating to the Captive that is reported within the other  assets line item.  APS’s financial statements are not impacted by Pinnacle West’s consolidation of the Captive VIE.  APS Palo Verde Sale Leaseback VIEs In 1986, APS entered into agreements with three separate VIE lessor trust entities in order to sell  and lease back interests in Palo Verde Unit 2 and related common facilities.  APS will retain the assets  through 2033 under all three lease agreements.  APS will be required to make"
"payments relating to the  three leases in total of approximately $21 million annually for the period 2025 through 2033.  At the end of  the lease period, APS will have the option to purchase the leased assets at their fair market value, extend  the leases for up to two years, or return the assets to the lessors.   The leases’ terms give APS the ability to utilize the assets for a significant portion of the assets’  economic life, and therefore provide APS with the power to direct activities of"
"the VIEs that most  significantly impact the VIEs’ economic performance.  Predominantly due to the lease terms, APS has  been deemed the primary beneficiary of these VIEs and therefore consolidates the VIEs.   As a result of consolidation, we eliminate lease accounting and instead recognize depreciation  expense, resulting in an increase in net income of $17 million for each of 2024, 2023 and 2022.  The  increase in net income is entirely attributable to the noncontrolling interests.  Income"
"attributable to  Pinnacle West shareholders is not impacted by the consolidation.  Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 191  Our Consolidated Balance Sheets include the following amounts relating to these VIEs (dollars in  thousands):   December 31, 2024 December 31, 2023 Palo Verde sale leaseback property, plant and equipment, net of accumulated  depreciation $  82,556 $  86,426  Equity — Noncontrolling interests   103,167   107,198    Assets of the VIEs are"
"restricted and may only be used for payment to the noncontrolling interest  holders.  These assets are reported on our consolidated financial statements.    APS is exposed to losses relating to these VIEs upon the occurrence of certain events that APS  does not consider to be reasonably likely to occur.  Under certain circumstances (for example, the NRC  issuing specified violation orders with respect to Palo Verde or the occurrence of specified nuclear events),  APS would be required to make"
"specified payments to the VIEs’ noncontrolling equity participants and  take title to the leased Unit 2 interests, which, if appropriate, may be required to be written-down in value.   If such an event were to occur during the lease periods, APS may be required to pay the noncontrolling  equity participants approximately $345 million beginning in 2025, and up to $501 million over the lease  extension terms.   For regulatory ratemaking purposes, the agreements continue to be treated as operating"
"leases and,  as a result, we have recorded a regulatory asset relating to the arrangements. 18.  Investments in Nuclear Decommissioning Trusts and Other Special Use Funds    We have investments in debt and equity securities held in Nuclear Decommissioning Trusts and  Other Special Use funds.  Investments in debt securities are classified as available-for-sale securities.  We  record both debt and equity security investments at their fair value on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.   See Note 12"
"for a discussion of how fair value is determined and the classification of the investments  within the fair value hierarchy.  The investments in each trust or account are restricted for use and are  intended to fund specified costs and activities as further described for each fund below. Nuclear Decommissioning Trusts — APS established external decommissioning trusts in  accordance with NRC regulations to fund the future costs APS expects to incur to decommission Palo  Verde.  Third-party"
"investment managers are authorized to buy and sell securities per stated investment  guidelines.  The trust funds are invested in fixed income securities and equity securities.  Earnings and  proceeds from sales and maturities of securities are reinvested in the trusts.  Because of the ability of APS  to recover decommissioning costs in rates, and in accordance with the regulatory treatment, APS has  deferred realized and unrealized gains and losses (including credit losses) in other regulatory"
"liabilities. Coal Reclamation Escrow Account — APS has investments restricted for the future coal mine  reclamation funding related to Four Corners.  This escrow account is primarily invested in fixed income  securities.  Earnings and proceeds from sales of securities are reinvested in the escrow account.  Because of  the ability of APS to recover coal reclamation costs in rates, and in accordance with the regulatory  treatment, APS has deferred realized and unrealized gains and losses"
"(including credit losses) in other  regulatory liabilities.  Activities relating to APS coal mine reclamation escrow account investments are  included within the other special use funds in the table below. Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 192  Active Union Employee Medical Account — APS has investments restricted for paying active  union employee medical costs.  These investments may be used to pay active union employee medical  costs incurred in the current"
"and future periods.  In 2024 and 2023, APS was reimbursed $14 million for  each year, for prior year active union employee medical claims from the active union employee medical  account.  The account is invested primarily in fixed income securities.  In accordance with the ratemaking  treatment, APS has deferred the unrealized gains and losses (including credit losses) in other regulatory  assets and liabilities.  Activities relating to active union employee medical account investments are"
"included within the other special use funds in the table below. Captive Insurance Cell — Pinnacle West has investments in the Captive that may be used to pay  insurance losses in the event of certain insured loss events.  The Captive may hold investment assets in  cash, cash equivalents, and equity and fixed income instruments.  These investments are restricted for  insured loss events. Pinnacle West Consolidated investment holdings reflected in the tables below primarily relate to  APS, with"
"the exception of the Captive’s investments included within Other Special Use Funds. The following tables present the unrealized gains and losses based on the original cost of the  investment and summarizes the fair value of the nuclear decommissioning trusts and other special use fund  assets (dollars in thousands):  December 31, 2024   Fair Value Total Unrealized Gains Total Unrealized Losses Investment Type: Nuclear  Decommissioning  Trusts Other  Special Use  Funds Total Equity securities $"
"435,470 $  24,962 $  460,432  $ 359,127 $  (176)  Available for sale-fixed income securities   844,040   355,544  1,199,584 (a)   7,717   (31,960)  Other   3,335   27,851   31,186 (b)   —   —  Total $  1,282,845 $  408,357 $ 1,691,202 (c) $ 366,844 $ (32,136)  (a) As of December 31, 2024, the amortized cost basis of these available-for-sale investments is $1,224 million. (b) Represents net pending securities sales and purchases. (c) All amounts pertain to APS, with the exception of $34 million"
"of Other Special Use Fund investments in  equity securities relating to the Captive. December 31, 2023   Fair Value Total Unrealized Gains Total Unrealized Losses Investment Type: Nuclear  Decommissioning  Trusts Other  Special Use  Funds Total Equity securities $  420,680 $  40,991 $  461,671  $ 336,555  $  —  Available for sale-fixed income securities   781,333   319,594  1,100,927 (a)   21,518    (40,868)  Other   (767)   2,196   1,429 (b)   39    —  Total $  1,201,246 $  362,781 $ 1,564,027"
"(c) $ 358,112  $ (40,868)  (a) As of December 31, 2023, the amortized cost basis of these available-for-sale investments is $1,120 million. (b) Represents net pending securities sales and purchases. (c) All amounts pertain to APS. Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 193    Year Ended December 31,   Nuclear  Decommissioning  Trusts Other Special Use  Funds Total 2024 Realized gains $  75,690 $  372 $  76,062  Realized losses $  (21,966) $  — $  (21,966)"
"Proceeds from the sale of securities (a) $  1,330,940 $  355,154 $  1,686,094  2023 Realized gains $  111,922 $  172 $  112,094  Realized losses $  (41,212) $  (568) $  (41,780)  Proceeds from the sale of securities (a) $  1,324,978 $  354,744 $  1,679,722  2022 Realized gains $  9,017 $  420 $  9,437  Realized losses $  (40,239) $  — $  (40,239)  Proceeds from the sale of securities (a) $  979,639 $  227,558 $  1,207,197  (a) Proceeds are reinvested in the nuclear decommissioning trusts and"
"other special use funds, excluding amounts  reimbursed to the Company for active union employee medical claims from the active union employee  medical account. Fixed Income Securities Contractual Maturities The fair value of APS’s fixed income securities, summarized by contractual maturities, at  December 31, 2024, is as follows (dollars in thousands):     Nuclear  Decommissioning  Trusts Coal Reclamation  Escrow Account Active Union  Employee Medical  Account Total Less than one year $  19,868"
"$  87,424 $  39,090 $  146,382  1 year – 5 years   268,974   58,598   154,768   482,340  5 years – 10 years   198,464   —   15,664   214,128  Greater than 10 years   356,734   —   —   356,734  Total $  844,040 $  146,022 $  209,522 $  1,199,584  Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 194  19.  Changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss    The following table shows the changes in Pinnacle West’s consolidated accumulated other  comprehensive loss, including"
"reclassification adjustments, net of tax, by component (dollars in  thousands):   Pension and  Other  Postretirement  Benefits Derivative  Instruments Total Balance at December 31, 2022 $  (32,332)  $  897 $  (31,435)  Other comprehensive income/(loss) before  reclassifications   (4,420)    713   (3,707)  Amounts reclassified from accumulated other  comprehensive loss   1,998 (a)   —   1,998  Balance at December 31, 2023   (34,754)    1,610   (33,144)  Other comprehensive income/(loss) before"
"reclassifications   1,039    (891)   148  Amounts reclassified from accumulated other  comprehensive loss   2,054 (a)   —   2,054  Balance at December 31, 2024 $  (31,661)  $  719 $  (30,942)  (a) These amounts primarily represent amortization of actuarial loss and are included in the  computation of net periodic pension cost.  See Note 7. The following table shows the changes in APS’s consolidated accumulated other comprehensive  loss, including reclassification adjustments, net of tax, by"
"component (dollars in thousands):   Pension and  Other  Postretirement  Benefits Balance at December 31, 2022 $  (15,596)  Other comprehensive (loss) before reclassifications   (3,383)  Amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss   1,760 (a) Balance at December 31, 2023   (17,219)  Other comprehensive income before reclassifications   1,255  Amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss   1,848 (a) Balance at December 31, 2024 $  (14,116)  (a) These amounts"
"primarily represent amortization of actuarial loss and are included in the  computation of net periodic pension cost.  See Note 7. Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 195  20.  Sale of Bright Canyon Energy On August 4, 2023, Pinnacle West entered into a purchase and sale agreement pursuant to which  we agreed to sell all of our equity interest in our wholly-owned subsidiary, BCE, to Ameresco.  The  transaction is accounted for as the sale of a business and was"
"structured to close in multiple stages that  were completed on January 12, 2024.  Certain investments and assets that BCE previously held, including  the TransCanyon joint venture and holdings in the two Tenaska wind farm investments, were not included  in the BCE Sale and were instead transferred to PNW Power, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pinnacle West.   The BCE Sale did not include a $31 million equity bridge loan relating to BCE’s Los Alamitos project,  which was paid in full by Pinnacle"
"West on August 4, 2023.  Other than these retained investments and the  debt instrument, all BCE assets and liabilities were included in the BCE Sale and were transferred to  Ameresco. The total carrying value of net assets transferred to Ameresco as a result of the BCE Sale was  $79 million, with total consideration received by Pinnacle West of $108 million, resulting in a total pre-tax  gain of $29 million, which was recognized between August 4, 2023 and January 12, 2024.  The net assets"
"transferred includes $41 million of liabilities that have been assumed by Ameresco.  The consideration  received by Pinnacle West includes both cash and interest-bearing promissory notes.  The stages of the  BCE Sale and timing of net assets transferring to Ameresco and related gain recognition are as follows:  • The first stage of the BCE Sale was completed on August 4, 2023.  In the first stage, the net  assets transferred to Ameresco totaled $44 million, which included a $36 million"
"construction  term loan.  The assets and liabilities transferred in the first stage related to the BCE Los  Alamitos project and were previously primarily classified as construction work in progress and  current maturities of long-term debt, respectively.  A gain of $6 million was recognized on our  Consolidated Statements of Income for the year ended December 31, 2023, relating to the first  stage of the BCE Sale.  • The final stage of the BCE Sale was completed on January 12, 2024.  In the"
"final stage, the net  assets transferred to Ameresco totaled $35 million.  The assets transferred in the final stage  related primarily to equity method investments in the Kūpono Solar Project and other  development stage projects.  These assets were previously classified as assets held for sale on  our December 31, 2023, Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Our Consolidated Statements of Income  for the year ended December 31, 2024, include a $23 million gain relating to the final stage of  the BCE"
"Sale.   As of January 12, 2024, all stages of the BCE Sale have been completed.  As partial consideration  for the BCE Sale, Pinnacle West received a $46 million interest-bearing promissory note from Ameresco.   The note required Ameresco to make cash payments to Pinnacle West throughout 2024 and Pinnacle West  received payment in full of the note receivable during the fourth quarter of 2024.  As the note receivable  has been paid in full, our December 31, 2024 Consolidated Balance Sheets do not"
"include any amounts  relating to the promissory note.  On January 30, 2024, Pinnacle West entered into a tax credit transfer agreement to purchase from  Ameresco $23 million of investment tax credits from the BCE Los Alamitos project for $21 million.  See  Note 4.  Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 196  Additionally, Pinnacle West continues to maintain certain guarantees relating to the Kūpono Solar  Project sale-leaseback financing, which were not"
"transferred in the BCE Sale transaction.  See Note 10.   21.  New Accounting Standards    ASU 2023-07, Segment Reporting: Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures In November 2023, a new standard was issued that modifies segment reporting disclosure  requirements.  The disclosure changes include information about a reportable segment’s significant  expenses, details relating to the entity’s chief operating decision maker, and other disclosures.  We adopted  this standard on December 31,"
"2024, using a retrospective approach.  The adoption of the new standard  results in changes to our reportable segment disclosures, but does not impact how we identify reportable  segments or our financial statement results.  See Note 1. ASU 2023-09, Income Taxes: Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures In December 2023, a new accounting standard was issued that expands disclosures relating to  income taxes.  The expanded disclosures include a tabular income tax rate reconciliation, disclosure of"
"specific reconciliation categories and reconciling items, the amount of income taxes paid by jurisdiction,  and other disclosures.  We will adopt this standard on December 31, 2025, using a prospective approach.   The adoption of the new standard will result in changes to our income tax disclosures, but will not impact  our accounting for income taxes or our financial statement results.    ASU 2024-03, Income Statement: Expense Disaggregation Disclosures In November 2024, a new accounting"
"standard was issued that requires specific disclosures related  to certain costs and expenses.  Companies will be required to disclose the amounts of certain cost and  expense categories, such as: purchases of inventory, employee compensation, depreciation, and  amortization, among other disclosures.  The new disclosures may be provided in the notes to the financial  statements, and will not require changes to the face of the income statement.  The standard is effective for  us on December 31,"
"2027, using either a prospective or retrospective approach, with early adoption  permitted.  The adoption of the new standard will result in disclosure changes, but will not impact our  accounting for such costs and expenses or our financial statement results. Table of Contents  COMBINED NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 197  PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION HOLDING COMPANY SCHEDULE I — CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (dollars"
"in thousands)     Year Ended December 31,   2024 2023 2022 Operating expenses $  9,931 $  11,249 $  8,850  Other       Equity in earnings of subsidiaries   643,703   539,962   500,042  Other income (expense)   23,835   2,823   (4,725)  Total   667,538   542,785   495,317  Interest expense   65,261   47,251   18,861  Income before income taxes   592,346   484,285   467,606  Income tax benefit   (16,460)   (17,272)   (15,996)  Net income attributable to common shareholders   608,806   501,557"
"483,602  Other comprehensive income (loss) — attributable to common  shareholders   2,202   (1,709)   23,426  Total comprehensive income — attributable to common shareholders $  611,008 $  499,848 $  507,028    See Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 198  PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION HOLDING COMPANY SCHEDULE I — CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS (dollars in thousands)     December 31,   2024 2023 ASSETS     Current assets     Cash and"
"cash equivalents $  23 $  9  Accounts receivable   163,203   163,829  Income tax receivable   6,673   1,832  Assets held for sale- investment in subsidiaries   —   35,139  Other current assets   434   28,379  Total current assets   170,333   229,188  Investments and other assets     Investments in subsidiaries   8,435,150   7,369,159  Deferred income taxes   —   15,746  Other assets   21,966   22,839  Total investments and other assets   8,457,116   7,407,744  TOTAL ASSETS $  8,627,449 $"
"7,636,932      LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Current liabilities     Accounts payable $  3,471 $  8,176  Accrued taxes   4,799   4,543  Common dividends payable   106,592   99,813  Short-term borrowings   228,550   76,650  Current maturities of long-term debt   500,000   625,000  Operating lease liabilities    138   127  Other current liabilities   11,389   11,400  Total current liabilities   854,939   825,709  Long-term debt less current maturities   867,770   498,731  Deferred income taxes   24,536"
"—  Pension liabilities   4,462   6,487  Operating lease liabilities   1,194   1,332  Other   17,070   19,811  Total deferred credits and other   47,262   27,630  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Common stock equity Common stock   3,118,294   2,744,491  Accumulated other comprehensive loss   (30,942)   (33,144)  Retained earnings   3,666,959   3,466,317  Total Pinnacle West Shareholders’ equity   6,754,311   6,177,664  Noncontrolling interests   103,167   107,198  Total Equity   6,857,478"
"6,284,862  TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY $  8,627,449 $  7,636,932  See Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Table of Contents  199  PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION HOLDING COMPANY SCHEDULE I — CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (dollars in thousands)   Year Ended December 31,   2024 2023 2022 Cash flows from operating activities       Net income $  608,806 $  501,557 $  483,602  Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash"
"provided by operating  activities:   Equity in earnings of subsidiaries — net   (643,703)   (539,962)   (500,042)  Gain on sale relating to BCE   (22,988)   (6,423)   —  Depreciation and amortization   75   76   76  Deferred income taxes   40,231   (13,955)   17,256  Accounts receivable   15,268   (28,273)   (8,535)  Accounts payable   (4,869)   1,839   3,431  Accrued taxes and income tax receivables — net   (4,584)   9,505   (25,157)  Dividends received from subsidiaries   401,400   393,600"
"385,800  Other   22,959   (14,201)   47,719  Net cash flow provided by operating activities   412,595   303,763   404,150  Cash flows from investing activities       Proceeds from sale relating to BCE   84,322   23,400   —  Investments in subsidiaries   (827,752)   (119,682)   (186,630)  Repayments of loans from subsidiaries and other   1,132   6,526   14,308  Advances of loans to subsidiaries   (11,336)   (59,349)   (3,308)  Net cash flow used for investing activities   (753,634)   (149,105)"
"(175,630)  Cash flows from financing activities       Issuance of long-term debt   867,387   175,000   300,000  Short-term debt borrowings under revolving credit facility   200,000   —   —  Short-term borrowings and (repayments) — net   (48,100)   60,930   2,420  Dividends paid on common stock   (394,663)   (386,486)   (378,881)  Repayment of long-term debt   (625,000)   —   (150,000)  Common stock equity issuance and purchases — net   341,429   (4,093)   (2,653)  Net cash flow used for"
"financing activities   341,053   (154,649)   (229,114)  Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents   14   9   (594)  Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year   9   —   594  Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $  23 $  9 $  —     See Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Table of Contents  200  PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION HOLDING COMPANY NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF HOLDING COMPANY The Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II,"
"Item 8 should be read in  conjunction with the Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Holding Company Financial Statements.   The Pinnacle West Capital Corporation Holding Company Financial Statements have been  prepared to present the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of Pinnacle West on a stand- alone basis as a holding company.  Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for using the equity method.   The noncontrolling interests relate to the Palo Verde sale leaseback VIE."
"See Note 17. Table of Contents  201  ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE   None.  ITEM 9A.  CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   (a) Disclosure Controls and Procedures   The term “disclosure controls and procedures” means controls and other procedures of a company  that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files  or submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”)"
"(15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.) is  recorded, processed, summarized, and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and  forms.  Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to  ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under  the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to a company’s management, including its principal  executive and principal financial officers, or"
"persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow  timely decisions regarding required disclosure.   Pinnacle West’s management, with the participation of Pinnacle West’s Chief Executive Officer  and Chief Financial Officer, have evaluated the effectiveness of Pinnacle West’s disclosure controls and  procedures as of December 31, 2024.  Based on that evaluation, Pinnacle West’s Chief Executive Officer  and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of that date, Pinnacle West’s"
"disclosure controls and  procedures were effective.   APS’s management, with the participation of APS’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial  Officer, have evaluated the effectiveness of APS’s disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31,  2024.  Based on that evaluation, APS’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have  concluded that, as of that date, APS’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective.   (b) Management’s Annual Reports on Internal Control Over"
"Financial Reporting   Reference is made to “Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting  (Pinnacle West Capital Corporation)” in Item 8 of this report and “Management’s Report on Internal  Control over Financial Reporting (Arizona Public Service Company)” in Item 8 of this report.   (c) Attestation Reports of the Registered Public Accounting Firm   Reference is made to “Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” in Item 8 of this  report and “Report of"
"Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” in Item 8 of this report on the  internal control over financial reporting of Pinnacle West and APS, respectively.   (d) Changes In Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   No change in Pinnacle West’s or APS’s internal control over financial reporting occurred during  the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2024, that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially  affect, Pinnacle West’s or APS’s internal control over financial"
"reporting. Table of Contents  202  ITEM 9B.  OTHER INFORMATION Rule 10b5-1 Trading Plans During the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2024, none of our directors or executive officers  adopted or terminated any contract, instruction or written plan for the purchase or sale of our securities to  satisfy the affirmative defense conditions of Rule 10b5-1(c) or any “non-Rule 10b5-1 trading  arrangement.” ITEM 9C.  DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT  INSPECTIONS Not applicable."
"PART III   ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OF PINNACLE WEST Reference is hereby made to “Information About Our Board and Corporate Governance” and  “Proposal 1 — Election of Directors” in the Pinnacle West Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting  of Shareholders to be held on May 21, 2025 (the “2025 Proxy Statement”) and to the “Information about  our Executive Officers” section in Part I of this report. Pinnacle West has adopted a Code of Ethics for"
"Financial Executives that applies to financial  executives including Pinnacle West’s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting  Officer, Controller, Treasurer, and General Counsel, the President and Chief Operating Officer of APS and  other persons designated as financial executives by the Chair of the Audit Committee.  The Code of Ethics  for Financial Executives is posted on Pinnacle West’s website (www.pinnaclewest.com).  Pinnacle West  intends to satisfy the"
"requirements under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding disclosure of amendments to, or  waivers from, provisions of the Code of Ethics for Financial Executives by posting such information on  Pinnacle West’s website. Pinnacle West has adopted an insider trading policy governing the purchase, sale, and/or other  dispositions of its securities by directors, officers and employees, and Pinnacle West itself, that Pinnacle  West believes are reasonably designed to promote compliance with insider trading"
"laws, rules and  regulations, and New York Stock Exchange listing standards.  This policy is set forth in our Securities  Trading Policy included as Exhibit 19.1 to this report.   ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION   Reference is hereby made to “Director Compensation,” “Executive Compensation,” and “Human  Resources Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” in the 2025 Proxy Statement.   ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS"
"Reference is hereby made to “Ownership of Pinnacle West Stock” in the 2025 Proxy Statement. Table of Contents  203  Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans    The following table sets forth information as of December 31, 2024, with respect to the 2021 Plan,  2012 Plan, the 2007 Plan, under which our equity securities are outstanding or currently authorized for  issuance. Equity Compensation Plan Information  Plan Category Number of securities to be issued upon exercise"
"of outstanding options, warrants and rights  (a) Weighted- average  exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights  (b) Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column (a))  (c) Equity compensation plans approved by security holders   1,632,699   —   2,941,625  Equity compensation plans not approved by security  holders   —   —   —  Total   1,632,699   —   2,941,625    (a)  This amount includes"
"shares subject to outstanding performance share awards and restricted stock unit awards  at the maximum amount of shares issuable under such awards.  However, payout of the performance share  awards is contingent on the Company reaching certain levels of performance during a three-year performance  period.  If the performance criteria for these awards are not fully satisfied, the award recipient will receive  less than the maximum number of shares available under these grants and may receive"
"nothing from these  grants. (b)  The weighted-average exercise price in this column does not take performance share awards or restricted  stock unit awards into account, as those awards have no exercise price. (c)  Awards under the 2021 Plan, as amended, can take the form of options, stock appreciation rights, restricted  stock, performance shares, performance share units, performance cash, stock grants, stock units, dividend  equivalents, and restricted stock units.  Additional shares cannot be"
"awarded under the 2012 Plan, as  amended, and the 2007 Plan.  However, if an award under the 2012 Plan, as amended, or the 2007 Plan is  forfeited, terminated or canceled or expires, the shares subject to such award, to the extent of the forfeiture,  termination, cancellation, or expiration, may be added back to the shares available for issuance under the  2021 Plan. Equity Compensation Plans Approved By Security Holders    Amounts in column (a) in the table above include shares subject to"
"awards outstanding under three  equity compensation plans that were previously approved by our shareholders:  (a) the 2007 Plan, which  was approved by our shareholders at our 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, under which no new stock  awards may be granted; (b) the 2012 Plan, which was approved by our shareholders at our 2012 Annual  Meeting of Shareholders, as amended by the First Amendment to the 2012 Plan, which was approved by  our shareholders at our 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders,"
"under which no new stock awards may be  granted; and (c) the 2021 Plan, which was approved by our shareholders at our 2021 Annual Meeting of  Shareholders, as amended by the First Amendment to the 2021 Plan, which was approved by our  shareholders at our 2023 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  See Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements for additional information regarding these plans. Table of Contents  204  Equity Compensation Plans Not Approved by Security Holders   The"
"Company does not have any equity compensation plans under which shares can be issued that  have not been approved by the shareholders. ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE   Reference is hereby made to “Information About Our Board and Corporate Governance” and  “Related Party Transactions” in the 2025 Proxy Statement. ITEM 14.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES Pinnacle West    Reference is hereby made to “Audit Matters — Audit Fees and — Pre-"
"Approval Policies” in the  2025 Proxy Statement.   APS   The following fees were paid to APS’s independent registered public accountants, Deloitte &  Touche LLP, for the last two fiscal years:    Type of Service 2024 2023 Audit Fees (1) $  2,967,862 $  2,707,633  Audit-Related Fees (2)   384,372   372,040  Tax Fees   —   —  All Other Fees (3)   —   1,672,676    (1)   The aggregate fees billed for services rendered for the audit of annual financial statements and for review of  financial"
"statements included in Reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, respectively. (2)   The aggregate fees billed for assurance and related services that are reasonably related to the performance of  the audit or review of the financial statements and are not included in Audit Fees reported above, which  primarily consist of fees for employee benefit plan audits in 2023 and 2024. (3)   The aggregate fees billed for independent third-party advisory (quality assurance) services related to a large- scale"
"information technology project.   Pinnacle West’s Audit Committee pre-approves each audit service and non-audit service to be  provided by APS’s registered public accounting firm.  The Audit Committee has delegated to the Chair of  the Audit Committee the authority to pre-approve audit and non-audit services to be performed by the  independent public accountants if the services are not expected to cost more than $100,000.  The Chair  must report any pre-approval decisions to the Audit Committee"
"at its next scheduled meeting.  All of the  services performed by Deloitte & Touche LLP for APS in 2024 were pre-approved by the Audit  Committee or the Chair consistent with the pre-approval policy. Table of Contents  205  PART IV   ITEM 15.  EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules    See the Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule in Part II, Item 8.   Exhibits Filed   The documents listed below are being filed or"
"have previously been filed on behalf of Pinnacle  West or APS and are incorporated herein by reference from the documents indicated and made a part  hereof.  Exhibits not identified as previously filed are filed herewith.    3.1   Pinnacle West   Articles of Incorporation, restated as  of May 21, 2008 3.1 to Pinnacle West/APS June 30,  2008 Form 10-Q Report, File  No. 1-8962   8/7/2008 3.2   Pinnacle West   Pinnacle West Capital Corporation  Bylaws, amended as of February 19,  2020 3.1 to"
"Pinnacle West/APS       February 25, 2020 Form 8-K Report,  File Nos. 1-8962 and 1-4473   2/25/2020 3.3   APS   Articles of Incorporation, restated as  of May 25, 1988 4.2 to APS’s Form 18 Registration  Nos. 33-33910 and 33-55248 by  means of September 24, 1993  Form 8-K Report, File No. 1-4473   9/29/1993 3.3(1)   APS   Amendment to the Articles of  Incorporation of Arizona Public  Service Company, amended May 16,  2012 3.1 to Pinnacle West/APS May 22,  2012 Form 8-K Report, File Nos.  1-8962"
"and 1-4473   5/22/2012 3.4   APS   Arizona Public Service Company  Bylaws, amended as of December 16,  2008 3.4 to Pinnacle West/APS  December 31, 2008 Form 10-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   2/20/2009 4.1   Pinnacle West   Specimen Certificate of  Pinnacle West Capital Corporation  Common Stock, no par value 4.1 to Pinnacle West June 20, 2017  Form 8-K Report, File No. 1-8962   6/20/2017 4.2   Pinnacle West APS   Indenture dated as of January 1, 1995  among APS and The Bank of New  York Mellon, as"
"Trustee 4.6 to APS’s Registration Statement  Nos. 33-61228 and 33-55473 by  means of January 1, 1995 Form 8-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   1/11/1995 4.3   Pinnacle West APS   Indenture dated as of November 15,  1996 between APS and The Bank of  New York, as Trustee 4.5 to APS’s Registration Statements  Nos. 33-61228, 33-55473, 33-64455  and 333-15379 by means of  November 19, 1996 Form 8-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   11/22/1996 4.4   Pinnacle West   Indenture dated as of December 1,  2000 between"
"the Company and The  Bank of New York, as Trustee,  relating to Senior Unsecured Debt  Securities 4.1 to Pinnacle West’s Registration  Statement No. 333-52476   12/21/2000 4.4(a) Pinnacle West Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated  as of June 17, 2020 4.1 to Pinnacle West June 10, 2020  Form 8-K Report, File No. 1-8962 6/16/2020 Exhibit No.   Registrant(s)   Description Previously Filed as Exhibit: a   Date Filed Table of Contents  206  4.4(b) Pinnacle West Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as"
"of June 10, 2024 4.1 to Pinnacle West June 5, 2024  Form 8-K Report, File No. 1-8962 6/10/2024 4.5   Pinnacle West   Indenture dated as of December 1,  2000 between the Company and The  Bank of New York, as Trustee,  relating to Subordinated Unsecured  Debt Securities 4.2 to Pinnacle West’s Registration  Statement No. 333-52476   12/21/2000 4.6   Pinnacle West APS   Indenture dated as of January 15,  1998 between APS and The Bank of  New York Mellon Trust Company  N.A. (successor to JPMorgan"
"Chase  Bank, N.A., formerly known as The  Chase Manhattan Bank), as Trustee 4.10 to APS’s Registration Statement  Nos. 333-15379 and 333-27551 by  means of January 13, 1998 Form 8-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   1/16/1998 4.6(a)   Pinnacle West APS   Seventh Supplemental Indenture  dated as of May 1, 2003 4.1 to APS’s Registration Statement  No. 333-90824 by means of May 7,  2003 Form 8-K Report, File  No. 1-4473   5/9/2003 4.6(b)   Pinnacle West APS   Ninth Supplemental Indenture dated  as of"
"August 15, 2005 4.1 to APS’s Registration Statements  Nos. 333-106772 and 333-121512 by  means of August 17, 2005 Form 8-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   8/22/2005 4.6(c)   APS   Tenth Supplemental Indenture dated  as of August 1, 2006 4.1 to APS’s July 31, 2006 Form 8-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   8/3/2006 4.6(d)   Pinnacle West APS   Twelfth Supplemental Indenture  dated as of August 25, 2011 4.6f to Pinnacle West/APS 2014  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473 2/20/2015 4.6(e)   Pinnacle"
"West APS   Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture  dated as of January 13, 2012 4.6g to Pinnacle West/APS 2014  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473 2/20/2015 4.6(f)   Pinnacle West APS   Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture  dated as of January 10, 2014 4.6h to Pinnacle West/APS 2014  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473 2/20/2015 4.6(g) Pinnacle West APS   Seventeenth Supplemental Indenture  dated as of May 19, 2015 4.1 to Pinnacle West/APS May 14,  2015 Form 8-K Report, File Nos."
"1-8962 and 1-4473 5/19/2015 4.6(h)   Pinnacle West APS   Eighteenth Supplemental Indenture  dated as of November 6, 2015 4.1 to Pinnacle West/APS     November 3, 2015 Form 8-K Report,  File Nos. 1-8962 and 1-4473 11/6/2015 4.6(i)   Pinnacle West APS   Nineteenth Supplemental Indenture  dated as of May 6, 2016 4.1 to Pinnacle West/APS May 3,  2016 Form 8-K Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473 5/6/2016 4.6(j) Pinnacle West APS   Twentieth Supplemental Indenture  dated as of September 20, 2016 4.1"
"to Pinnacle West/APS    September 15, 2016 Form 8-K  Report, File Nos. 1-8962 and 1-4473 9/20/2016 4.6(k) Pinnacle West APS   Twenty-First Supplemental Indenture  dated as of September 11, 2017 4.1 to Pinnacle West/APS    September 11, 2017 Form 8-K  Report, File Nos. 1-8962 and 1-4473 9/11/2017 4.6(l) Pinnacle West APS   Twenty-Second Supplemental  Indenture dated as of August 9, 2018 4.1 to Pinnacle West/APS August 9,  2018 Form 8-K Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473 8/9/2018 Exhibit No."
"Registrant(s)   Description Previously Filed as Exhibit: a   Date Filed Table of Contents  207  4.6(m) Pinnacle West APS Twenty-Third Supplemental  Indenture dated as of February 28,  2019 4.1 to Pinnacle West/APS       February 28, 2019 Form 8-K Report,  File Nos. 1-8962 and 1-4473 2/28/2019 4.6(n) Pinnacle West APS Twenty-Fourth Supplemental  Indenture dated as of August 19, 2019 4.1 to Pinnacle West/APS August 16,  2019 Form 8-K Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473 8/16/2019 4.6(o) Pinnacle"
"West APS Twenty-Fifth Supplemental Indenture  dated as of November 20, 2019 4.1 to Pinnacle West/APS     November 20, 2019 Form 8-K  Report, File Nos. 1-8962 and 1-4473 11/20/2019 4.6(p) Pinnacle West APS Twenty-Sixth Supplemental  Indenture dated as of May 22, 2020 4.1 to Pinnacle West/APS May 22,  2020 Form 8-K Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473 5/22/2020 4.6(q) Pinnacle West APS Twenty-Seventh Supplemental  Indenture dated as of September 11,  2020 4.1 to Pinnacle West/APS    September 11,"
"2020 Form 8-K  Report, File Nos. 1-8962 and 1-4473 9/11/2020 4.6(r) Pinnacle West APS Twenty-Eighth Supplemental  Indenture dated as of August 16, 2021 4.1 to Pinnacle West/APS August 16,  2021 Form 8-K Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473 8/16/2021 4.6(s) Pinnacle West APS Twenty-Ninth Supplemental  Indenture dated as of November 8,  2022 4.1 to Pinnacle West/APS     November 8, 2022 Form 8-K Report,  File Nos. 1-8962 and 1-4473 11/8/2022 4.6(t) Pinnacle West APS Thirtieth Supplemental"
"Indenture  dated as of June 30, 2023 4.1 to Pinnacle West/APS June 30,  2023 Form 8-K Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473 6/30/2023 4.6(u) Pinnacle West APS Thirty-First Supplemental Indenture  dated as of May 9, 2024 4.1 to Pinnacle West/APS May 9,  2024 Form 8-K Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473 5/9/2024 4.7   Pinnacle West   Third Amended and Restated  Pinnacle West Capital Corporation  Investors Advantage Plan dated as of  November 25, 2008 4.1 to Pinnacle West’s Form S-3  Registration"
"Statement  No. 333-155641, File No. 1-8962   11/25/2008 4.8   Pinnacle West   Agreement, dated March 29, 1988,  relating to the filing of instruments  defining the rights of holders of long- term debt not in excess of 10% of the  Company’s total assets 4.1 to Pinnacle West’s 1987 Form   10-K Report, File No. 1-8962   3/30/1988 4.8(a)   Pinnacle West APS   Agreement, dated March 21, 1994,  relating to the filing of instruments  defining the rights of holders of APS  long-term debt not in excess"
"of 10%  of APS’s total assets 4.1 to APS’s 1993 Form 10-K Report,  File No. 1-4473   3/30/1994 4.9 Pinnacle West APS Description of Securities Registered  Pursuant to Section 12 of the  Securities Exchange Act of 1934 4.10 Pinnacle West Indenture, dated as of June 6, 2024,  between the Company and The Bank  of New York Mellon Trust Company,  N.A., as trustee 4.1 to Pinnacle West June 6, 2024  Form 8-K Report, File No. 1-8962 6/6/2024 Exhibit No.   Registrant(s)   Description Previously Filed as"
"Exhibit: a   Date Filed Table of Contents  208  10.1(1)   Pinnacle West APS   Two separate Decommissioning Trust  Agreements (relating to PVGS Units  1 and 3, respectively), each dated  July 1, 1991, between APS and  Mellon Bank, N.A., as  Decommissioning Trustee 10.2 to APS’s September 30, 1991  Form 10-Q Report, File No. 1-4473   11/14/1991 10.1(1)(a)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 1 to  Decommissioning Trust Agreement  (PVGS Unit 1), dated as of  December 1, 1994 10.1 to APS’s 1994 Form"
"10-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   3/30/1995 10.1(1)(b)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 1 to  Decommissioning Trust Agreement  (PVGS Unit 3), dated as of  December 1, 1994 10.2 to APS’s 1994 Form 10-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   3/30/1995 10.1(1)(c)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 2 to APS  Decommissioning Trust Agreement  (PVGS Unit 1) dated as of July 1,  1991 10.4 to APS’s 1996 Form 10-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   3/28/1997 10.1(1)(d)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 2 to APS"
"Decommissioning Trust Agreement  (PVGS Unit 3) dated as of July 1,  1991 10.6 to APS’s 1996 Form 10-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   3/28/1997 10.1(1)(e)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 3 to the  Decommissioning Trust Agreement  (PVGS Unit 1), dated as of March 18,  2002 10.2 to Pinnacle West’s March 31,  2002 Form 10-Q Report, File  No. 1-8962   5/15/2002 10.1(1)(f)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 3 to the  Decommissioning Trust Agreement  (PVGS Unit 3), dated as of March 18,  2002 10.4 to"
"Pinnacle West’s March 2002  Form 10-Q Report, File No. 1-8962   5/15/2002 10.1(1)(g)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 4 to the  Decommissioning Trust Agreement  (PVGS Unit 1), dated as of  December 19, 2003 10.3 to Pinnacle West’s 2003  Form 10-K Report, File No. 1-8962   3/15/2004 10.1(1)(h)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 4 to the  Decommissioning Trust Agreement  (PVGS Unit 3), dated as of  December 19, 2003 10.5 to Pinnacle West’s 2003  Form 10-K Report, File No. 1-8962   3/15/2004"
"10.1(1)(i)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 5 to the  Decommissioning Trust Agreement  (PVGS Unit 1), dated as of May 1,  2007 10.1 to Pinnacle West/APS March 31,  2007 Form 10-Q Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473   5/9/2007 10.1(1)(j)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 5 to the  Decommissioning Trust Agreement  (PVGS Unit 3), dated as of May 1,  2007 10.2 to Pinnacle West/APS March 31,  2007 Form 10-Q Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 104473   5/9/2007 Exhibit No.   Registrant(s)"
"Description Previously Filed as Exhibit: a   Date Filed Table of Contents  209  10.1(2)   Pinnacle West APS   Amended and Restated  Decommissioning Trust Agreement  (PVGS Unit 2) dated as of  January 31, 1992, among APS,  Mellon Bank, N.A., as  Decommissioning Trustee, and State  Street Bank and Trust Company, as  successor to The First National Bank  of Boston, as Owner Trustee under  two separate Trust Agreements, each  with a separate Equity Participant,  and as Lessor under two separate"
"Facility Leases, each relating to an  undivided interest in PVGS Unit 2 10.1 to Pinnacle West’s 1991  Form 10-K Report, File No. 1-8962   3/26/1992 10.1(2)(a)   Pinnacle West APS   First Amendment to Amended and  Restated Decommissioning Trust  Agreement (PVGS Unit 2), dated as  of November 1, 1992 10.2 to APS’s 1992 Form 10-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   3/30/1993 10.1(2)(b)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 2 to Amended and  Restated Decommissioning Trust  Agreement (PVGS Unit 2), dated as  of"
"November 1, 1994 10.3 to APS’s 1994 Form 10-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   3/30/1995 10.1(2)(c)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 3 to Amended and  Restated Decommissioning Trust  Agreement (PVGS Unit 2), dated as  of June 20, 1996 10.1 to APS’s June 30, 1996  Form 10-Q Report, File No. 1-4473   8/9/1996 10.1(2)(d)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 4 to Amended and  Restated Decommissioning Trust  Agreement (PVGS Unit 2) dated as of  December 16, 1996 APS 10.5 to APS’s 1996 Form 10-K  Report,"
"File No. 1-4473   3/28/1997 10.1(2)(e)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 5 to the Amended  and Restated Decommissioning Trust  Agreement (PVGS Unit 2), dated as  of June 30, 2000 10.1 to Pinnacle West’s March 31,  2002 Form 10-Q Report, File  No. 1-8962   5/15/2002 10.1(2)(f)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 6 to the Amended  and Restated Decommissioning Trust  Agreement (PVGS Unit 2), dated as  of March 18, 2002 10.3 to Pinnacle West’s March 31,  2002 Form 10-Q Report, File  No. 1-8962"
"5/15/2002 10.1(2)(g)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 7 to the Amended  and Restated Decommissioning Trust  Agreement (PVGS Unit 2), dated as  of December 19, 2003 10.4 to Pinnacle West’s 2003  Form 10-K Report, File No. 1-8962   3/15/2004 10.1(2)(h)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 8 to the Amended  and Restated Decommissioning Trust  Agreement (PVGS Unit 2), dated as  of April 1, 2007 10.1.2h to Pinnacle West’s 2007  Form 10-K Report, File No. 1-8962   2/27/2008 10.2(1)b   Pinnacle West"
"APS   Arizona Public Service Company  Deferred Compensation Plan, as  restated, effective January 1, 1984,  and the second and third amendments  thereto, dated December 22, 1986,  and December 23, 1987, respectively 10.4 to APS’s 1988 Form 10-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   3/8/1989 Exhibit No.   Registrant(s)   Description Previously Filed as Exhibit: a   Date Filed Table of Contents  210  10.2(1)(a)b   Pinnacle West APS   Third Amendment to the Arizona  Public Service Company Deferred"
"Compensation Plan, effective as of  January 1, 1993 10.3A to APS’s 1993 Form 10-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   3/30/1994 10.2(1)(b)b   Pinnacle West APS   Fourth Amendment to the Arizona  Public Service Company Deferred  Compensation Plan effective as of  May 1, 1993 10.2 to APS’s September 30, 1994  Form 10-Q Report, File No. 1-4473   11/10/1994 10.2(1)(c)b   Pinnacle West APS   Fifth Amendment to the Arizona  Public Service Company Deferred  Compensation Plan effective  January 1, 1997 10.3A to"
"APS’s 1996 Form 10-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   3/28/1997 10.2(1)(d)b   Pinnacle West APS   Sixth Amendment to the Arizona  Public Service Company Deferred  Compensation Plan effective  January 1, 2001 10.8A to Pinnacle West’s 2000  Form 10-K Report, File No. 1-8962   3/14/2001 10.2(2)b   Pinnacle West APS   Arizona Public Service Company  Directors’ Deferred Compensation  Plan, as restated, effective January 1,  1986 10.1 to APS’s June 30, 1986  Form 10-Q Report, File No. 1-4473   8/13/1986"
"10.2(2)(a)b   Pinnacle West APS   Second Amendment to the Arizona  Public Service Company Directors’  Deferred Compensation Plan,  effective as of January 1, 1993 10.2A to APS’s 1993 Form 10-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   3/30/1994 10.2(2)(b)b   Pinnacle West APS   Third Amendment to the Arizona  Public Service Company Directors’  Deferred Compensation Plan,  effective as of May 1, 1993 10.1 to APS’s September 30, 1994  Form 10-Q Report, File No. 1-4473   11/10/1994 10.2(2)(c)b   Pinnacle West APS"
"Fourth Amendment to the Arizona  Public Service Company Directors  Deferred Compensation Plan,  effective as of January 1, 1999 10.8A to Pinnacle West’s 1999  Form 10-K Report, File No. 1-8962   3/30/2000 10.2(3)b   Pinnacle West APS   Trust for the Pinnacle West Capital  Corporation, Arizona Public Service  Company and SunCor Development  Company Deferred Compensation  Plans dated August 1, 1996 10.14A to Pinnacle West’s 1999  Form 10-K Report, File No. 1-8962   3/30/2000 10.2(3)(a)b   Pinnacle"
"West APS   First Amendment dated December 7,  1999 to the Trust for the Pinnacle  West Capital Corporation, Arizona  Public Service Company and SunCor  Development Company Deferred  Compensation Plans 10.15A to Pinnacle West’s 1999  Form 10-K Report, File No. 1-8962   3/30/2000 10.2(4)b   Pinnacle West APS   Pinnacle West Capital Corporation,  Arizona Public Service Company,  SunCor Development Company and  El Dorado Investment Company  Deferred Compensation Plan as  amended and restated"
"effective  January 1, 1996 10.10A to APS’s 1995 Form 10-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   3/29/1996 Exhibit No.   Registrant(s)   Description Previously Filed as Exhibit: a   Date Filed Table of Contents  211  10.2(4)(a)b   Pinnacle West APS First Amendment effective as of  January 1, 1999, to the Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation, Arizona Public  Service Company, SunCor  Development Company and El  Dorado Investment Company  Deferred Compensation Plan 10.7A to Pinnacle West’s 1999 Form  10-K"
"Report, File No. 1-8962 3/30/2000 10.2(4)(b)b   Pinnacle West APS Second Amendment effective January  1, 2000 to the Pinnacle West Capital  Corporation, Arizona Public Service  Company, SunCor Development  Company and El Dorado Investment  Company Deferred Compensation  Plan 10.10A to Pinnacle West’s 1999  Form 10-K Report, File No. 1-8962 3/30/2000 10.2(4)(c)b   Pinnacle West APS Third Amendment to the Pinnacle  West Capital Corporation, Arizona  Public Service Company, SunCor  Development"
"Company and El  Dorado Investment Company  Deferred Compensation Plan,  effective as of January 1, 2002 10.3 to Pinnacle West’s March 31,  2003 Form 10-Q Report, File No.  1-8962 5/15/2003 10.2(4)(d)b   Pinnacle West APS   Fourth Amendment to the Pinnacle  West Capital Corporation, Arizona  Public Service Company, SunCor  Development Company and El  Dorado Investment Company  Deferred Compensation Plan,  effective January 1, 2003 10.64b to Pinnacle West/APS 2005  Form 10-K Report, File Nos."
"1-8962  and 1-4473   3/13/2006 10.2(5)b   Pinnacle West APS   Deferred Compensation Plan of 2005  for Employees of Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation and Affiliates (as  amended and restated effective  January 1, 2016) 10.2.5 to Pinnacle West/APS 2015  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473 2/19/2016 10.3(1)b   Pinnacle West APS   Pinnacle West Capital Corporation  Supplemental Excess Benefit  Retirement Plan, amended and  restated as of January 1, 2003 10.7A to Pinnacle West’s 2003"
"Form 10-K Report, File No. 1-8962   3/15/2004 10.3(1)(a)b   Pinnacle West APS   Pinnacle West Capital Corporation  Supplemental Excess Benefit  Retirement Plan, as amended and  restated, dated December 18, 2003 10.48b to Pinnacle West/APS 2005  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473   3/13/2006 10.3(2)b   Pinnacle West APS   Pinnacle West Capital Corporation  Supplemental Excess Benefit  Retirement Plan of 2005 (as amended  and restated effective January 1,  2016) 10.3.2 to Pinnacle"
"West/APS 2015  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473 2/19/2016 10.3(2)(a)b   Pinnacle West APS First Amendment to the Pinnacle  West Capital Corporation  Supplemental Excess Benefit  Retirement Plan of 2005 (as amended  and restated effective January 1,  2016) 10.3.2a to Pinnacle West/APS 2016  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473 2/24/2017 Exhibit No.   Registrant(s)   Description Previously Filed as Exhibit: a   Date Filed Table of Contents  212  10.3(2)(b)b   Pinnacle West"
"APS Second Amendment to the Pinnacle  West Capital Corporation  Supplemental Excess Benefit  Retirement Plan of 2005 (as amended  and restated effective January 1,  2016) 10.3.2b to Pinnacle West/APS 2017  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473 2/23/2018 10.4(1)b   Pinnacle West APS   Offer of Employment Letter dated  July 19, 2018 between Pinnacle West  and Robert E. Smith 10.4.5 to Pinnacle West/APS 2019  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473 2/21/2020 10.4(2)b Pinnacle West"
"APS Supplemental Agreement dated  October 17, 2018 between Pinnacle  West and Robert E. Smith 10.4.6 to Pinnacle West/APS 2019  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473 2/21/2020 10.4(3)b Pinnacle West APS Discretionary Credit Award  Agreement dated June 19, 2019  between Pinnacle West and Theodore  Geisler 10.4.4 to Pinnacle West/APS 2020  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473 2/24/2021 10.4(8)b Pinnacle West APS Offer of Employment Letter dated  May 19, 2022 between APS and"
"Adam Heflin 10.4(8) to Pinnacle West/APS 2022  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473 2/27/2023 10.4(9)b Pinnacle West APS Discretionary Credit Award  Agreement dated June 21, 2019  between APS and Jacob Tetlow 10.4(9) to Pinnacle West/APS 2022  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473 2/27/2023 10.4(10)b Pinnacle West APS First Amendment to Discretionary  Credit Award Agreement dated  February 21, 2021 between APS and  Jacob Tetlow 10.4(10) to Pinnacle West/APS 2022  Form 10-K"
"Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473 2/27/2023 10.5(1)bd   Pinnacle West APS   Key Executive Employment and  Severance Agreement between  Pinnacle West and certain executive  officers of Pinnacle West and its  subsidiaries 10.77bd to Pinnacle West/APS 2005  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473   3/13/2006 10.5(1)(a)bd   Pinnacle West APS   Form of Amended and Restated Key  Executive Employment and  Severance Agreement between  Pinnacle West and certain officers of  Pinnacle West and"
"its subsidiaries 10.4 to Pinnacle West/APS  September 30, 2007 Form 10-Q  Report, File Nos. 1-8962 and 1-4473   11/6/2007 10.5(2)bd   Pinnacle West APS   Form of Key Executive Employment  and Severance Agreement between  Pinnacle West and certain officers of  Pinnacle West and its subsidiaries 10.3 to Pinnacle West/APS  September 30, 2007 Form 10-Q  Report, File Nos. 1-8962 and 1-4473   11/6/2007 10.5(3)bd   Pinnacle West APS   Form of Key Executive Employment  and Severance Agreement between"
"Pinnacle West and certain officers of  Pinnacle West and its subsidiaries 10.5.3 to Pinnacle West/APS 2009  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473   2/19/2010 10.5(4)bd   Pinnacle West APS   Form of Key Executive Employment  and Severance Agreement between  Pinnacle West and certain officers of  Pinnacle West and its subsidiaries 10.5.4 to Pinnacle West/APS 2012  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473   2/22/2013 10.5(5)bd Pinnacle West APS Form of Key Executive Employment  and"
"Severance Agreement between  Pinnacle West and certain officers of  Pinnacle West and its subsidiaries 10.4 to Pinnacle West/APS June 30,  2021 Form 10-Q Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473 8/5/2021 Exhibit No.   Registrant(s)   Description Previously Filed as Exhibit: a   Date Filed Table of Contents  213  10.6(1)b   Pinnacle West   Pinnacle West Capital Corporation  2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan Appendix B to the Proxy Statement  for Pinnacle West’s 2007 Annual  Meeting of Shareholders, File"
"No. 1-8962   4/20/2007 10.6(1)(a)b   Pinnacle West   First Amendment to the  Pinnacle West Capital Corporation  2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan 10.2 to Pinnacle West/APS April 18,  2007 Form 8-K Report, File  No. 1-8962   4/20/2007 10.6(1)(b)bd   Pinnacle West APS   Performance Share Agreement under  the Pinnacle West Capital  Corporation 2007 Long-Term  Incentive Plan 10.3 to Pinnacle West/APS March 31,  2009 Form 10-Q Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473   5/5/2009 10.6(1)(c)bd   Pinnacle West"
"Form of Performance Share  Agreement under the Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation 2007 Long-Term  Incentive Plan 10.1 to Pinnacle West/APS June 30,  2010 Form 10-Q Report, File  No. 1-8962   8/3/2010 10.6(1)(d)bd   Pinnacle West   Form of Restricted Stock Unit  Agreement under the Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation 2007 Long-Term  Incentive Plan 10.2 to Pinnacle West/APS June 30,  2010 Form 10-Q Report, File  No. 1-8962   8/3/2010 10.6(1)(e)bd   Pinnacle West   Form of Performance Share"
"Agreement under the Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation 2007 Long-Term  Incentive Plan 10.4 to Pinnacle West/APS March 31,  2011 Form 10-Q Report, File  No. 1-8962   4/29/2011 10.6(1)(f)bd   Pinnacle West   Form of Restricted Stock Unit  Agreement under the Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation 2007 Long-Term  Incentive Plan 10.5 to Pinnacle West/APS March 31,  2011 Form 10-Q Report, File  No. 1-8962   4/29/2011 10.6(1)(g)bd   Pinnacle West   Form of Restricted Stock Unit  Agreement under the"
"Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation 2007 Long-Term  Incentive Plan (Supplemental 2010  Award) 10.6 to Pinnacle West/APS March 31,  2011 Form 10-Q Report, File  No. 1-8962   4/29/2011 10.6(2)b   Pinnacle West   Description of Annual Stock Grants  to Non-Employee Directors 10.1 to Pinnacle West/APS  September 30, 2007 Form 10-Q  Report, File No. 1-8962   11/6/2007 10.6(3)b   Pinnacle West   Description of Annual Stock Grants  to Non-Employee Directors 10.2 to Pinnacle West/APS June 30,  2008 Form"
"10-Q Report, File  No. 1-8962   8/7/2008 10.6(4)bd Pinnacle West  APS Summary of 2025 Variable Incentive  Plan and Officer Variable Incentive  Plan 10.6(5)b   Pinnacle West APS   Pinnacle West Capital Corporation  2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan Appendix A to the Proxy Statement  for Pinnacle West’s 2012 Annual  Meeting of Shareholders, File  No. 1-8962   3/29/2012 10.6(5)(a)bd Pinnacle West First Amendment to the Pinnacle  West Capital Corporation 2012 Long- Term Incentive Plan Appendix A to the"
"Proxy Statement  for Pinnacle West’s 2017 Annual  Meeting of Shareholders, File No.  1-8962 3/31/2017 10.6(5)(b)bd   Pinnacle West   Form of Performance Share Award  Agreement under the Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation 2012 Long-Term  Incentive Plan 10.1 to Pinnacle West/APS March 31,  2012 Form 10-Q Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473   5/3/2012 Exhibit No.   Registrant(s)   Description Previously Filed as Exhibit: a   Date Filed Table of Contents  214  10.6(5)(c)bd   Pinnacle West   Form of"
"Restricted Stock Unit Award  Agreement under the Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation 2012 Long-Term  Incentive Plan 10.2 to Pinnacle West/APS March 31,  2012 Form 10-Q Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473   5/3/2012 10.6(5)(d)bd  Pinnacle West  Form of Performance Share Award  Agreement under the Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation 2012 Long-Term  Incentive Plan 10.6.8c to Pinnacle West/APS 2013  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473  2/21/2014 10.6(5)(e)bd   Pinnacle West   Form of"
"Restricted Stock Unit Award  Agreement under the Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation 2012 Long-Term  Incentive Plan 10.6.8d to Pinnacle West/APS 2013  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473  2/21/2014 10.6(5)(f)bd  Pinnacle West  Form of Performance Share Award  Agreement under the Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation 2012 Long-Term  Incentive Plan 10.6.6e to Pinnacle West/APS 2015  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473 2/19/2016 10.6(5)(g)bd   Pinnacle West   Form of Restricted"
"Stock Unit Award  Agreement under the Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation 2012 Long-Term  Incentive Plan 10.6.6f to Pinnacle West/APS 2016  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473 2/24/2017 10.6(5)(h)bd  Pinnacle West  Form of Performance Share Award  Agreement under the Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation 2012 Long-Term  Incentive Plan 10.6.6g to Pinnacle West/APS 2016  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473 2/24/2017 10.6(5)(i)bd  Pinnacle West  Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award"
"Agreement under the Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation 2012 Long-Term  Incentive Plan 10.2 to Pinnacle West/APS March 31,  2019 Form 10-Q Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473 5/1/2019 10.6(5)(j)bd  Pinnacle West  Form of Performance Share Award  Agreement under the Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation 2012 Long-Term  Incentive Plan 10.3 to Pinnacle West/APS March 31,  2019 Form 10-Q Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473 5/1/2019 10.6(5)(k)bd Pinnacle West Form of Performance Share Award  Agreement"
"under the Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation 2012 Long-Term  Incentive Plan 10.1 to Pinnacle West/APS March 31,  2020 Form 10-Q Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473 5/8/2020 10.6(5)(l)bd Pinnacle West Form of Performance Share Award  Agreement under the Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation 2012 Long-Term  Incentive Plan 10.6.5k to Pinnacle West/APS 2020  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473 2/24/2021 10.6(5)(m)b d Pinnacle West Form of Performance Share Award  Agreement under the"
"Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation 2012 Long-Term  Incentive Plan 10.6.5l to Pinnacle West/APS 2020  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473 2/24/2021 10.6(5)(n)bd Pinnacle West APS Pinnacle West Capital Corporation  2021 Long-Term Incentive Plan Appendix A to the Proxy Statement  for Pinnacle West’s 2021 Annual  Meeting of Shareholders, File  No. 1-8962 4/01/2021 10.6(5)(o)bd Pinnacle West First Amendment to the Pinnacle  West Capital Corporation 2021 Long- Term Incentive Plan Appendix A"
"to the Proxy Statement  for Pinnacle West’s 2022 Annual  Meeting of Shareholders, File No.  1-8962 5/19/2023 Exhibit No.   Registrant(s)   Description Previously Filed as Exhibit: a   Date Filed Table of Contents  215  10.6(5)(p)bd Pinnacle West Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award  Agreement under the Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation 2021 Long-Term  Incentive Plan 10.6.5n to Pinnacle West/APS 2020  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473 2/25/2022 10.6(5)(q)bd Pinnacle West Form of"
"Restricted Stock Unit Award  Agreement under the Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation 2021 Long-Term  Incentive Plan 10.6.5o to Pinnacle West/APS 2020  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473 2/25/2022 10.6(5)(r)bd Pinnacle West Form of Performance Share Award  Agreement under the Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation 2021 Long-Term  Incentive Plan 10.6.5p to Pinnacle West/APS 2020  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473 2/25/2022 10.6(5)(s)bd Pinnacle West Form of Performance Share"
"Award  Agreement under the Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation 2021 Long-Term  Incentive Plan 10.6.5q to Pinnacle West/APS 2020  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473 2/25/2022 10.6(5)(t)bd Pinnacle West Form of Performance Share Award  Agreement under the Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation 2021 Long-Term  Incentive Plan 10.6.5r to Pinnacle West/APS 2020  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473 2/25/2022 10.6(5)(u)bd Pinnacle West Form of Performance Share Award  Agreement under"
"the Pinnacle West  Capital Corporation 2021 Long-Term  Incentive Plan 10.6.5s to Pinnacle West/APS 2020  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473 2/25/2022 10.6(5)(v)bd   Pinnacle West   Master Amendment to Performance  Share Agreements 10.3 to Pinnacle West/APS March 31,  2012 Form 10-Q Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473   5/3/2012 10.6(5)(w)b d   Pinnacle West   Master Amendment to Restricted  Stock Unit Agreements 10.4 to Pinnacle West/APS March 31,  2012 Form 10-Q Report, File Nos."
"1-8962 and 1-4473   5/3/2012 10.7(1)   Pinnacle West APS   Indenture of Lease with Navajo Tribe  of Indians, Four Corners Plant 5.01 to APS’s Form S-7 Registration  Statement, File No. 2-59644   9/1/1977 10.7(1)(a)   Pinnacle West APS   Supplemental and Additional  Indenture of Lease, including  amendments and supplements to  original lease with Navajo Tribe of  Indians, Four Corners Plant 5.02 to APS’s Form S-7 Registration  Statement, File No. 2-59644   9/1/1977 10.7(1)(b)   Pinnacle West APS"
"Amendment and Supplement No. 1 to  Supplemental and Additional  Indenture of Lease Four Corners,  dated April 25, 1985 10.36 to Pinnacle West’s Registration  Statement on Form 8-B Report, File  No. 1-89   7/25/1985 10.7(1)(c)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment and Supplement No. 2 to  Supplemental and Additional  Indenture of Lease with the Navajo  Nation dated March 7, 2011 10.1 to Pinnacle West/APS March 31,  2011 Form 10-Q Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473   4/29/2011 10.7(1)(d)   Pinnacle"
"West APS   Amendment and Supplement No. 3 to  Supplemental and Additional  Indenture of Lease with the Navajo  Nation dated March 7, 2011 10.2 to Pinnacle West/APS March 31,  2011 Form 10-Q Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473   4/29/2011 10.7(2)   Pinnacle West APS   Application and Grant of multi-party  rights-of-way and easements, Four  Corners Plant Site 5.04 to APS’s Form S-7 Registration  Statement, File No. 2-59644   9/1/1977 Exhibit No.   Registrant(s)   Description Previously Filed as"
"Exhibit: a   Date Filed Table of Contents  216  10.7(2)(a)   Pinnacle West APS   Application and Amendment No. 1 to  Grant of multi-party rights-of-way  and easements, Four Corners Site  dated April 25, 1985 10.37 to Pinnacle West’s Registration  Statement on Form 8-B, File  No. 1-8962   7/25/1985 10.7(3)   Pinnacle West APS   Application and Grant of APS rights-  of-way and easements, Four Corners  Site 5.05 to APS’s Form S-7 Registration  Statement, File No. 2-59644   9/1/1977 10.7(3)(a)"
"Pinnacle West APS   Application and Amendment No. 1 to  Grant of APS rights-of-way and  easements, Four Corners Site dated  April 25, 1985 10.38 to Pinnacle West’s Registration  Statement on Form 8-B, File  No. 1-8962   7/25/1985 10.7(4) Pinnacle West APS Four Corners Project Co-Tenancy  Agreement, conformed copy up  through and including Amendment  No. 11, dated June 30, 2018, among  APS, Public Service Company of  New Mexico, SRP, Tucson Electric  Power Company and Navajo  Transitional Energy"
"Company, LLC 10.7.4c to Pinnacle West/APS       June 30, 2018 Form 10-Q Report, File  Nos. 1-8962 and 1-4473 8/3/2018 10.7(4)(a) Pinnacle West APS Four Corners Project Co-Tenancy  Agreement, conformed copy up  through and including Amendment  No. 13, dated June 25, 2021, among  APS, Public Service Company of  New Mexico, SRP, Tucson Electric  Power Company and Navajo  10.5 to Pinnacle West/APS June 30,  2021 Form 10-Q Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473 8/5/2021 10.8(1)   Pinnacle West APS"
"Indenture of Lease, Navajo Units 1, 2,  and 3 5(g) to APS’s Form S-7 Registration  Statement, File No. 2-36505   3/23/1970 10.8(2)   Pinnacle West APS   Application of Grant of rights-of-way  and easements, Navajo Plant 5(h) to APS Form S-7 Registration  Statement, File No. 2-36505   3/23/1970 10.8(3)   Pinnacle West APS   Water Service Contract Assignment  with the United States Department of  Interior, Bureau of Reclamation,  Navajo Plant 5(l) to APS’s Form S-7 Registration  Statement, File"
"No. 2-394442   3/16/1971 10.8(4)   Pinnacle West APS   Navajo Project Co-Tenancy  Agreement dated as of March 23,  1976, and Supplement No. 1 thereto  dated as of October 18, 1976,  Amendment No. 1 dated as of July 5,  1988, and Amendment No. 2 dated as  of June 14, 1996; Amendment No. 3  dated as of February 11, 1997;  Amendment No. 4 dated as of  January 21, 1997; Amendment No. 5  dated as of January 23, 1998;  Amendment No. 6 dated as of  July 31, 1998 10.107 to Pinnacle West/APS 2005  Form"
"10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473   3/13/2006 10.8(5)   Pinnacle West APS   Navajo Project Participation  Agreement dated as of September 30,  1969, and Amendment and  Supplement No. 1 dated as of  January 16, 1970, and Coordinating  Committee Agreement No. 1 dated as  of September 30, 1971 10.108 to Pinnacle West/APS 2005  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473   3/13/2006 Exhibit No.   Registrant(s)   Description Previously Filed as Exhibit: a   Date Filed Table of Contents"
"217  10.9(1)   Pinnacle West APS   Arizona Nuclear Power Project  (“ANPP”) Participation Agreement,  dated August 23, 1973, among APS,  SRP, SCE, Public Service Company  of New Mexico, El Paso Electric  Company, Southern California Public  Power Authority, and Department of  Water and Power of the City of Los  Angeles, and amendments 1-12  thereto 10.1 to APS’s 1988 Form 10-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   3/8/1989 10.9(1)(a)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 13, dated as of  April 22, 1991, to"
"ANPP Participation  Agreement, dated August 23, 1973,  among APS, SRP, SCE, Public  Service Company of New Mexico, El  Paso Electric Company, Southern  California Public Power Authority,  and Department of Water and Power  of the City of Los Angeles 10.1 to APS’s March 31, 1991  Form 10-Q Report, File No. 1-4473   5/15/1991 10.9(1)(b)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 14 to ANPP  Participation Agreement, dated  August 23, 1973, among APS, SRP,  SCE, Public Service Company of  New Mexico, El"
"Paso Electric  Company, Southern California Public  Power Authority, and Department of  Water and Power of the City of Los  Angeles 99.1 to Pinnacle West’s June 30, 2000  Form 10-Q Report, File No. 1-8962   8/14/2000 10.9(1)(c)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 15, dated  November 29, 2010, to ANPP  Participation Agreement, dated  August 23, 1973, among APS, SRP,  SCE, Public Service Company of  New Mexico, El Paso Electric  Company, Southern California Public  Power Authority, and Department"
"of  Water and Power of the City of Los  Angeles 10.9.1c to Pinnacle West/APS 2010  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473   2/18/2011 10.9(1)(d) Pinnacle West APS Amendment No. 16, dated April 28,  2014, to  ANPP Participation  Agreement, dated August 23, 1973,  among APS, SRP, SCE, Public  Service Company of New Mexico, El  Paso Electric Company, Southern  California Public Power Authority,  and Department of Water and Power  of the City of Los Angeles 10.2 to Pinnacle West/APS March"
"31,  2014 Form 10-Q Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473 5/2/2014 10.10(1)   Pinnacle West APS   Asset Purchase and Power Exchange  Agreement dated September 21, 1990  between APS and PacifiCorp, as  amended as of October 11, 1990 and  as of July 18, 1991 10.1 to APS’s June 30, 1991  Form 10-Q Report, File No. 1-4473   8/8/1991 10.10(2)   Pinnacle West APS   Long-Term Power Transaction  Agreement dated September 21, 1990  between APS and PacifiCorp, as  amended as of October 11, 1990, and  as of"
"July 8, 1991 10.2 to APS’s June 30, 1991  Form 10-Q Report, File No. 1-4473   8/8/1991 Exhibit No.   Registrant(s)   Description Previously Filed as Exhibit: a   Date Filed Table of Contents  218  10.10(2)(a)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 1 dated April 5,  1995 to the Long-Term Power  Transaction Agreement and Asset  Purchase and Power Exchange  Agreement between PacifiCorp and  APS 10.3 to APS’s 1995 Form 10-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   3/29/1996 10.10(3)   Pinnacle West APS   Restated"
"Transmission Agreement  between PacifiCorp and APS dated  April 5, 1995 10.4 to APS’s 1995 Form 10-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   3/29/1996 10.10(4)   Pinnacle West APS   Reciprocal Transmission Service  Agreement between APS and  PacifiCorp dated as of March 2, 1994 10.6 to APS’s 1995 Form 10-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   3/29/1996 10.11(1) Pinnacle West Second Amended and Restated Five- Year Credit Agreements dated as of  April 10, 2023, among Pinnacle  West, as Borrower, Barclays Bank  PLC, as"
"Agent, Co-Sustainability  Structuring Agent and Issuing Bank,  and the lenders and other parties  thereto  10.1 to Pinnacle West/APS April 10,  2023 Form 8-K Report, File No.  1-8962 4/10/2023 10.11(1)(a) Pinnacle West Amendment No. 1 to the Second  Amended and Restated Five-Year  Credit Agreement, dated as of April  10, 2023, among Pinnacle West, as  Borrower, Barclays Bank PLC, as  Agent, Co-Sustainability Structuring  Agent and Issuing Bank, and the  lenders and other parties thereto 10.1 to"
"Pinnacle West/APS August 2,  2024 Form 8-K Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473 8/2/2024 10.11(2) Pinnacle West APS Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as  of April 10, 2023, among APS, as  Borrower, Barclays Bank PLC, as  Agent, Co-Sustainability Structuring  Agent and Issuing Bank, and the  lenders and other parties thereto 10.2 to Pinnacle West/APS April 10,  2023 Form 8-K Report, File No.  1-8962 4/10/2023 10.11(2)(a) APS Amendment No. 1 to the Five-Year  Credit Agreement, dated as of April"
"10, 2023, among APS, as Borrower,  Barclays Bank PLC, as Agent, Co- Sustainability Structuring Agent and  Issuing Bank, and the lenders and  other parties thereto 10.2 to Pinnacle West/APS August 2,  2024 Form 8-K Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473 8/2/2024 10.12(1)c   Pinnacle West APS   Facility Lease, dated as of August 1,  1986, between U.S. Bank National  Association, successor to State Street  Bank and Trust Company, as  successor to The First National Bank  of Boston, in its capacity as"
"Owner  Trustee, as Lessor, and APS, as  Lessee 4.3 to APS’s Form 18 Registration  Statement, File No. 33-9480   10/24/1986 Exhibit No.   Registrant(s)   Description Previously Filed as Exhibit: a   Date Filed Table of Contents  219  10.12(1)(a)c   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 1, dated as of  November 1, 1986, to Facility Lease,  dated as of August 1, 1986, between  U.S. Bank National Association,  successor to State Street Bank and  Trust Company, as successor to The  First National Bank of"
"Boston, in its  capacity as Owner Trustee, as Lessor,  and APS, as Lessee 10.5 to APS’s September 30, 1986  Form 10-Q Report by means of  Amendment No. 1 on December 3,  1986 Form 8, File No. 1-4473   12/4/1986 10.12(1)(b)c   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 2 dated as of June 1,  1987 to Facility Lease dated as of  August 1, 1986 between U.S. Bank  National Association, successor to  State Street Bank and Trust  Company, as successor to The First  National Bank of Boston, as Lessor,  and APS,"
"as Lessee 10.3 to APS’s 1988 Form 10-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   3/8/1989 10.12(1)(c)c   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 3, dated as of  March 17, 1993, to Facility Lease,  dated as of August 1, 1986, between  U.S. Bank National Association,  successor to State Street Bank and  Trust Company, as successor to The  First National Bank of Boston, as  Lessor, and APS, as Lessee 10.3 to APS’s 1992 Form 10-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   3/30/1993 10.12(1)(d)c   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 4,"
"dated as of  September 30, 2015, to Facility  Lease, dated as of August 1, 1986,  between U.S. Bank National  Association, successor to State Street  Bank and Trust Company, as  successor to The First National Bank  of Boston, as Owner Trustee under a  Trust Agreement with Emerson  Finance LLC, as Lessor, and APS, as  Lessee 10.2 to Pinnacle West/APS  September 30, 2015 Form 10-Q  Report, File Nos. 1-8962 and 1-4473   10/30/2015 10.12(1)(e)c   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 3, dated as of"
"September 30, 2015, to Facility  Lease, dated as of August 1, 1986,  between U.S. Bank National  Association, successor to State Street  Bank and Trust Company, as  successor to The First National Bank  of Boston, as Owner Trustee under a  Trust Agreement with Security  Pacific Capital Leasing Corporation,  as Lessor, and APS, as Lessee 10.3 to Pinnacle West/APS  September 30, 2015 Form 10-Q  Report, File Nos. 1-8962 and 1-4473   10/30/2015 10.12(2)   Pinnacle West APS   Facility Lease, dated as"
"of  December 15, 1986, between U.S.  Bank National Association, successor  to State Street Bank and Trust  Company, as successor to The First  National Bank of Boston, in its  capacity as Owner Trustee, as Lessor,  and APS, as Lessee 10.1 to APS’s November 18, 1986  Form 8-K Report, File No. 1-4473   1/20/1987 Exhibit No.   Registrant(s)   Description Previously Filed as Exhibit: a   Date Filed Table of Contents  220  10.12(2)(a)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 1, dated as of  August 1,"
"1987, to Facility Lease,  dated as of December 15, 1986,  between U.S. Bank National  Association, successor to State Street  Bank and Trust Company, as  successor to The First National Bank  of Boston, as Lessor, and APS, as  Lessee 4.13 to APS’s Form 18 Registration  Statement No.  33-9480 by means of  August 1, 1987 Form 8-K Report,  File No. 1-4473   8/24/1987 10.12(2)(b)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 2, dated as of  March 17, 1993, to Facility Lease,  dated as of December 15, 1986,"
"between U.S. Bank National  Association, successor to State Street  Bank and Trust Company, as  successor to The First National Bank  of Boston, as Lessor, and APS, as  Lessee 10.4 to APS’s 1992 Form 10-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   3/30/1993 10.12(2)(c)   Pinnacle West APS Amendment No. 3, dated July 10,  2014, to Facility Lease, dated as of  December 15, 1986, between U.S.  Bank National Association, successor  to State Street Bank and Trust  Company, as successor to the First  National Bank of"
"Boston, as Lessor,  and APS, as Lessee 10.2 to Pinnacle West/APS June 30,  2014 Form 10-Q Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473   7/31/2014 10.12(2)(d) Pinnacle West APS Amendment No. 4, dated April 1,  2021, to Facility Lease, dated as of  December 15, 1986, between U.S.  Bank National Association, successor  to State Street Bank and Trust  Company, as successor to the First  National Bank of Boston, as Lessor,  and APS, as Lessee 10.1 to Pinnacle West/APS March 31,  2021 Form 10-Q Report, File"
"Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473 5/5/2021 10.13(1)   Pinnacle West APS   Agreement between Pinnacle West  Energy Corporation and APS for  Transportation and Treatment of  Effluent by and between Pinnacle  West Energy Corporation and APS  dated as of the 10th day of April,  2001 10.102 to Pinnacle West/APS 2004  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473   3/16/2005 10.13(2)   Pinnacle West APS   Agreement for the Transfer and Use  of Wastewater and Effluent by and  between APS, SRP and PWE dated"
"June 1, 2001 10.103 to Pinnacle West/APS 2004  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473   3/16/2005 10.13(3)   Pinnacle West APS   Agreement for the Sale and Purchase  of Wastewater Effluent dated  November 13, 2000, by and between  the City of Tolleson, Arizona, APS  and SRP 10.104 to Pinnacle West/APS 2004  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473   3/16/2005 10.13(4)   Pinnacle West APS   Operating Agreement for the Co- Ownership of Wastewater Effluent  dated November 16, 2000 by"
"and  between APS and SRP 10.105 to Pinnacle West/APS 2004  Form 10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962  and 1-4473   3/16/2005 Exhibit No.   Registrant(s)   Description Previously Filed as Exhibit: a   Date Filed Table of Contents  221  10.13(5)   Pinnacle West APS   Municipal Effluent Purchase and Sale  Agreement dated April 29, 2010, by  and between City of Phoenix, City of  Mesa, City of Tempe, City of  Scottsdale, City of Glendale, APS and  SRP 10.1 to Pinnacle West/APS March 31,  2010 Form 10-Q"
"Report, File Nos.  1-8962 and 1-4473   5/6/2010 10.14(1)   Pinnacle West APS   Contract, dated July 21, 1984, with  DOE providing for the disposal of  nuclear fuel and/or high-level  radioactive waste, ANPP 10.31 to Pinnacle West’s Form S-14  Registration Statement, File  No. 2-96386   3/13/1985 10.15(1)   Pinnacle West APS   Territorial Agreement between APS  and SRP 10.1 to APS’s March 31, 1998  Form 10-Q Report, File No. 1-4473   5/15/1998 10.15(2)   Pinnacle West APS   Power Coordination"
"Agreement  between APS and SRP 10.2 to APS’s March 31, 1998  Form 10-Q Report, File No. 1-4473   5/15/1998 10.15(3)   Pinnacle West APS   Memorandum of Agreement between  APS and SRP 10.3 to APS’s March 31, 1998  Form 10-Q Report, File No. 1-4473   5/15/1998 10.15(3)(a)   Pinnacle West APS   Addendum to Memorandum of  Agreement between APS and SRP  dated as of May 19, 1998 10.2 to APS’s May 19, 1998 Form    8-K Report, File No. 1-4473   6/26/1998 10.16(1) Pinnacle West Forward Sale Agreement,"
"dated  February 28, 2024, between Pinnacle  West and Wells Fargo Bank, National  Association 10.1 to Pinnacle West February 28,  2024 Form 8-K Report, File No.  1-8962 3/4/2024 10.16(2) Pinnacle West Additional Forward Sale Agreement,  dated February 28, 2024, between  Pinnacle West and Wells Fargo Bank,  National Association 10.2 to Pinnacle West February 28,  2024 Form 8-K Report, File No.  1-8962 3/4/2024 10.17(1) Pinnacle West Forward Sale Agreement, dated  February 28, 2024, between"
"Pinnacle  West and Mizuho Markets Americas  LLC (with Mizuho Securities USA  LLC acting as its agent) 10.3 to Pinnacle West February 28,  2024 Form 8-K Report, File No.  1-8962 3/4/2024 10.17(2) Pinnacle West Additional Forward Sale Agreement,  dated February 28, 2024, between  Pinnacle West and Mizuho Markets  Americas LLC (with Mizuho  Securities USA LLC acting as its  agent) 10.4 to Pinnacle West February 28,  2024 Form 8-K Report, File No.  1-8962 3/4/2024 19.1 Pinnacle West Securities"
"Trading Policy of Pinnacle  West 21.1  Pinnacle West  Subsidiaries of Pinnacle West       23.1  Pinnacle West  Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP       23.2   APS  Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP       31.1   Pinnacle West   Certificate of Jeffrey B. Guldner,  Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to  Rule 13a-14(a) and Rule 15d-14(a) of  the Securities Exchange Act, as  amended       Exhibit No.   Registrant(s)   Description Previously Filed as Exhibit: a   Date Filed Table of Contents  222  31.2"
"Pinnacle West   Certificate of Andrew Cooper, Chief  Financial Officer, pursuant to  Rule 13a-14(a) and Rule 15d-14(a) of  the Securities Exchange Act, as  amended       31.3   APS   Certificate of Jeffrey B. Guldner,  Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to  Rule 13a-14(a) and Rule 15d-14(a) of  the Securities Exchange Act, as  amended       31.4   APS   Certificate of  Andrew Cooper, Chief  Financial Officer, pursuant to  Rule 13a-14(a) and Rule 15d-14(a) of  the Securities Exchange Act, as"
"amended       32.1e   Pinnacle West   Certification of Chief Executive  Officer and Chief Financial Officer,  pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350,  as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of  the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002       32.2e   APS   Certification of Chief Executive  Officer and Chief Financial Officer,  pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350,  as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of  the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002       97 Pinnacle West Policy Relating to Recovery of  Erroneously Awarded"
"Compensation 97 to Pinnacle West/APS 2023 Form  10-K Report, File Nos. 1-8962 and  1-4473 2/27/2024 99.1c   Pinnacle West APS   Participation Agreement, dated as of  August 1, 1986, among PVGS  Funding Corp., Inc., Bank of America  National Trust and Savings  Association, State Street Bank and  Trust Company, as successor to The  First National Bank of Boston, in its  individual capacity and as Owner  Trustee, Chemical Bank, in its  individual capacity and as Indenture  Trustee, APS, and the"
"Equity  Participant named therein 28.1 to APS’s September 30, 1992  Form 10-Q Report, File No. 1-4473   11/9/1992 99.1(a)c   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 1 dated as of  November 1, 1986, to Participation  Agreement, dated as of August 1,  1986, among PVGS Funding  Corp., Inc., Bank of America  National Trust and Savings  Association, State Street Bank and  Trust Company, as successor to The  First National Bank of Boston, in its  individual capacity and as Owner  Trustee, Chemical Bank, in"
"its  individual capacity and as Indenture  Trustee, APS, and the Equity  Participant named therein 10.8 to APS’s September 30, 1986  Form 10-Q Report by means of  Amendment No. 1, on December 3,  1986 Form 8, File No. 1-4473   12/4/1986 Exhibit No.   Registrant(s)   Description Previously Filed as Exhibit: a   Date Filed Table of Contents  223  99.1(b)c   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 2, dated as of  March 17, 1993, to Participation  Agreement, dated as of August 1,  1986, among PVGS Funding"
"Corp., Inc., PVGS II Funding  Corp., Inc., State Street Bank and  Trust Company, as successor to The  First National Bank of Boston, in its  individual capacity and as Owner  Trustee, Chemical Bank, in its  individual capacity and as Indenture  Trustee, APS, and the Equity  Participant named therein 28.4 to APS’s 1992 Form 10-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   3/30/1993 99.2c   Pinnacle West APS   Trust Indenture, Mortgage, Security  Agreement and Assignment of  Facility Lease, dated as of August 1,"
"1986, between State Street Bank and  Trust Company, as successor to The  First National Bank of Boston, as  Owner Trustee, and Chemical Bank,  as Indenture Trustee 4.5 to APS’s Form 18 Registration  Statement, File No. 33-9480   10/24/1986 99.2(a)c   Pinnacle West APS   Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated  as of November 1, 1986 to Trust  Indenture, Mortgage, Security  Agreement and Assignment of  Facility Lease, dated as of August 1,  1986, between State Street Bank and  Trust Company, as"
"successor to The  First National Bank of Boston, as  Owner Trustee, and Chemical Bank,  as Indenture Trustee 10.6 to APS’s September 30, 1986  Form 10-Q Report by means of  Amendment No. 1 on December 3,  1986 Form 8, File No. 1-4473   12/4/1986 99.2(b)c   Pinnacle West APS   Supplemental Indenture No. 2 to  Trust Indenture, Mortgage, Security  Agreement and Assignment of  Facility Lease, dated as of August 1,  1986, between State Street Bank and  Trust Company, as successor to The  First"
"National Bank of Boston, as  Owner Trustee, and Chemical Bank,  as Lease Indenture Trustee 4.4 to APS’s 1992 Form 10-K Report,  File No. 1-4473   3/30/1993 99.3c   Pinnacle West APS   Assignment, Assumption and Further  Agreement, dated as of August 1,  1986, between APS and State Street  Bank and Trust Company, as  successor to The First National Bank  of Boston, as Owner Trustee 28.3 to APS’s Form 18 Registration  Statement, File No. 33-9480   10/24/1986 99.3(a)c   Pinnacle West APS"
"Amendment No. 1, dated as of  November 1, 1986, to Assignment,  Assumption and Further Agreement,  dated as of August 1, 1986, between  APS and State Street Bank and Trust  Company, as successor to The First  National Bank of Boston, as Owner  Trustee 10.10 to APS’s September 30, 1986  Form 10-Q Report by means of  Amendment No. l on December 3,  1986 Form 8, File No. 1-4473   12/4/1986 Exhibit No.   Registrant(s)   Description Previously Filed as Exhibit: a   Date Filed Table of Contents  224"
"99.3(b)c   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 2, dated as of  March 17, 1993, to Assignment,  Assumption and Further Agreement,  dated as of August 1, 1986, between  APS and State Street Bank and Trust  Company, as successor to The First  National Bank of Boston, as Owner  Trustee 28.6 to APS’s 1992 Form 10-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   3/30/1993 99.4   Pinnacle West APS   Participation Agreement, dated as of  December 15, 1986, among PVGS  Funding Report Corp., Inc., State  Street Bank and Trust"
"Company, as  successor to The First National Bank  of Boston, in its individual capacity  and as Owner Trustee, Chemical  Bank, in its individual capacity and as  Indenture Trustee under a Trust  Indenture, APS, and the Owner  Participant named therein 28.2 to APS’s September 30, 1992  Form 10-Q Report, File No. 1-4473   11/9/1992 99.4(a)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 1, dated as of  August 1, 1987, to Participation  Agreement, dated as of December 15,  1986, among PVGS Funding  Corp.,"
"Inc. as Funding Corporation,  State Street Bank and Trust  Company, as successor to The First  National Bank of Boston, as Owner  Trustee, Chemical Bank, as Indenture  Trustee, APS, and the Owner  Participant named therein 28.20 to APS’s Form 18 Registration  Statement No. 33-9480 by means of a  November 6, 1986 Form 8-K Report,  File No. 1-4473   8/10/1987 99.4(b)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 2, dated as of  March 17, 1993, to Participation  Agreement, dated as of December 15,  1986,"
"among PVGS Funding  Corp., Inc., PVGS II Funding  Corp., Inc., State Street Bank and  Trust Company, as successor to The  First National Bank of Boston, in its  individual capacity and as Owner  Trustee, Chemical Bank, in its  individual capacity and as Indenture  Trustee, APS, and the Owner  Participant named therein 28.5 to APS’s 1992 Form 10-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   3/30/1993 99.5   Pinnacle West APS   Trust Indenture, Mortgage Security  Agreement and Assignment of  Facility Lease, dated"
"as of  December 15, 1986, between State  Street Bank and Trust Company, as  successor to The First National Bank  of Boston, as Owner Trustee, and  Chemical Bank, as Indenture Trustee 10.2 to APS’s November 18, 1986  Form 10-K Report, File No. 1-4473   1/20/1987 99.5(a)   Pinnacle West APS   Supplemental Indenture No. 1, dated  as of August 1, 1987, to Trust  Indenture, Mortgage, Security  Agreement and Assignment of  Facility Lease, dated as of  December 15, 1986, between State  Street Bank and"
"Trust Company, as  successor to The First National Bank  of Boston, as Owner Trustee, and  Chemical Bank, as Indenture Trustee 4.13 to APS’s Form 18 Registration  Statement No. 33-9480 by means of  August 1, 1987 Form 8-K Report,  File No. 1-4473   8/24/1987 Exhibit No.   Registrant(s)   Description Previously Filed as Exhibit: a   Date Filed Table of Contents  225  99.5(b)   Pinnacle West APS   Supplemental Indenture No. 2 to  Trust Indenture Mortgage, Security  Agreement and Assignment of"
"Facility Lease, dated as of  December 15, 1986, between State  Street Bank and Trust Company, as  successor to The First National Bank  of Boston, as Owner Trustee, and  Chemical Bank, as Lease Indenture  Trustee 4.5 to APS’s 1992 Form 10-K Report,  File No. 1-4473   3/30/1993 99.6   Pinnacle West APS   Assignment, Assumption and Further  Agreement, dated as of December 15,  1986, between APS and State Street  Bank and Trust Company, as  successor to The First National Bank  of Boston, as Owner"
"Trustee 10.5 to APS’s November 18, 1986  Form 8-K Report, File No. 1-4473   1/20/1987 99.6(a)   Pinnacle West APS   Amendment No. 1, dated as of  March 17, 1993, to Assignment,  Assumption and Further Agreement,  dated as of December 15, 1986,  between APS and State Street Bank  and Trust Company, as successor to  The First National Bank of Boston, as  Owner Trustee 28.7 to APS’s 1992 Form 10-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   3/30/1993 99.7c   Pinnacle West APS   Indemnity Agreement dated as of"
"March 17, 1993 by APS 28.3 to APS’s 1992 Form 10-K  Report, File No. 1-4473   3/30/1993 99.8   Pinnacle West APS   Extension Letter, dated as of  August 13, 1987, from the signatories  of the Participation Agreement to  Chemical Bank 28.20 to APS’s Form 18 Registration  Statement No. 33-9480 by means of a  November 6, 1986 Form 8-K Report,  File No. 1-4473   8/10/1987 101.SCH   Pinnacle West APS   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema  Document       101.CAL   Pinnacle West APS   XBRL Taxonomy"
"Extension  Calculation Linkbase Document       101.LAB   Pinnacle West APS   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label  Linkbase Document       101.PRE   Pinnacle West APS   XBRL Taxonomy Extension  Presentation Linkbase Document       101.DEF   Pinnacle West APS   XBRL Taxonomy Definition  Linkbase Document       104 Pinnacle West  APS The Cover Page Interactive Data File  (formatted as Inline iXBRL and  contained in Exhibit 101) Exhibit No.   Registrant(s)   Description Previously Filed as Exhibit: a"
"Date Filed * aReports filed under File No. 1-4473 and 1-8962 were filed in the office of the SEC located in  Washington, D.C.   bManagement contract or compensatory plan or arrangement to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to  Item 15(b) of Form 10-K.   Table of Contents  226  cAn additional document, substantially identical in all material respects to this Exhibit, has been  entered into, relating to an additional Equity Participant.  Although such additional document may differ in  other respects"
"(such as dollar amounts, percentages, tax indemnity matters, and dates of execution), there  are no material details in which such document differs from this Exhibit.   dAdditional agreements, substantially identical in all material respects to this Exhibit have been  entered into with additional persons.  Although such additional documents may differ in other respects  (such as dollar amounts and dates of execution), there are no material details in which such agreements  differ from this"
"Exhibit.   eFurnished herewith as an Exhibit. ITEM 16.  FORM 10-K SUMMARY None. Table of Contents  227  SIGNATURES   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the  Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly  authorized.   PINNACLE WEST CAPITAL CORPORATION (Registrant)  Date: February 25, 2025 /s/ Jeffrey B. Guldner (Jeffrey B. Guldner, Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and"
"Chief Executive Officer)   Power of Attorney   We, the undersigned directors and executive officers of Pinnacle West Capital Corporation, hereby  severally appoint Andrew Cooper and Robert E. Smith, and each of them, our true and lawful attorneys  with full power to them and each of them to sign for us, and in our names in the capacities indicated below,  any and all amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange  Commission.   Pursuant to the requirements"
"of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed  below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.   Signature Title Date /s/ Jeffrey B. Guldner Principal Executive Officer February 25, 2025 (Jeffrey B. Guldner, Chairman and Director of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer) /s/ Andrew Cooper Principal Financial Officer February 25, 2025 (Andrew Cooper, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial"
"Officer) /s/ Elizabeth A. Blankenship Principal Accounting Officer February 25, 2025 (Elizabeth A. Blankenship, Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer) Table of Contents  228  /s/ Glynis A. Bryan Director February 25, 2025 (Glynis A. Bryan) /s/ Ronald Butler, Jr. Director February 25, 2025 (Ronald Butler, Jr.) /s/ Gonzalo A. de la Melena, Jr. Director February 25, 2025 (Gonzalo A. de la Melena, Jr.) /s/ Carol S. Eicher Director February 25, 2025 (Carol S. Eicher) /s/ Susan T."
"Flanagan Director February 25, 2025 (Susan T. Flanagan) /s/ Richard P. Fox Director February 25, 2025 (Richard P. Fox) /s/ Theodore N. Geisler Director February 25, 2025 (Theodore N. Geisler) /s/ Bruce J. Nordstrom Director February 25, 2025 (Bruce J. Nordstrom) /s/ Paula J. Sims Director February 25, 2025 (Paula J. Sims) /s/ William H. Spence Director February 25, 2025 (William H. Spence) /s/ Kristine L. Svinicki Director February 25, 2025 (Kristine L. Svinicki) /s/ James E Trevathan, Jr."
"Director February 25, 2025 (James E. Trevathan, Jr.) Table of Contents  229  SIGNATURES   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the  Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly  authorized.     ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY   (Registrant)          Date: February 25, 2025 /s/ Jeffrey B. Guldner   (Jeffrey B. Guldner, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer)"
"Power of Attorney   We, the undersigned directors and executive officers of Arizona Public Service Company, hereby  severally appoint Andrew Cooper and Robert E. Smith, and each of them, our true and lawful attorneys  with full power to them and each of them to sign for us, and in our names in the capacities indicated below,  any and all amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange  Commission.   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act"
"of 1934, this report has been signed  below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.   Signature   Title   Date                   /s/ Jeffrey B. Guldner   Principal Executive Officer   February 25, 2025 (Jeffrey B. Guldner, Chairman   and Director     of the Board of Directors and         Chief Executive Officer)                             /s/ Andrew Cooper   Principal Financial Officer   February 25, 2025 (Andrew Cooper,"
"Senior Vice President and         Chief Financial Officer)                           /s/ Elizabeth A. Blankenship   Principal Accounting Officer   February 25, 2025 (Elizabeth A. Blankenship         Vice President, Controller and         Chief Accounting Officer)         Table of Contents  230  /s/ Glynis A. Bryan Director February 25, 2025 (Glynis A. Bryan) /s/ Ronald Butler, Jr. Director February 25, 2025 (Ronald Butler, Jr.) /s/ Gonzalo A. de la Melena, Jr. Director February 25, 2025 (Gonzalo"
"A. de la Melena, Jr.) /s/ Carol S. Eicher Director February 25, 2025 (Carol S. Eicher) /s/ Susan T. Flanagan Director February 25, 2025 (Susan T. Flanagan) /s/ Richard P. Fox Director February 25, 2025 (Richard P. Fox) /s/ Theodore N. Geisler Director February 25, 2025 (Theodore N. Geisler) /s/ Bruce J. Nordstrom Director February 25, 2025 (Bruce J. Nordstrom) /s/ Paula J. Sims Director February 25, 2025 (Paula J. Sims) /s/ William H. Spence Director February 25, 2025 (William H. Spence) /s/"
"Kristine L. Svinicki Director February 25, 2025 (Kristine L. Svinicki) /s/ James E Trevathan, Jr. Director February 25, 2025 (James E. Trevathan, Jr.) Table of Contents  231  Pinnacle West offers a direct stock purchase plan. Any interested investor may purchase Pinnacle West  common stock through the Investors Advantage Plan. Features of the Plan include a variety of options  for reinvesting dividends, direct deposit of cash dividends, automatic monthly investment, certificate  safekeeping and"
"more. An Investors Advantage Plan prospectus and enrollment materials may be obtained  by calling Computershare at (800) 457-2983, by visiting computershare.com/investor or by writing to: Computershare P.O. Box 505005 Louisville, KY 40233-5005 Shareholder Information FORM 10-K Pinnacle West’s Annual Report on  Form 10-K filed with the Securities and  Exchange Commission is available on  our website or by writing to the Office  of the Corporate Secretary. STATISTICAL REPORT Detailed Statistical"
"Reports for  Financial Analysis are available  on our website. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY  REPORT The Pinnacle West Corporate  Responsibility Report is available  on our website. INVESTOR RELATIONS  CONTACT Amanda Ho (602) 250-3334 ADMINISTRATIVE  INFORMATION COMPANY CONTACT Shareholder Services (602) 250-3011 shareholderdept@pinnaclewest.com ANNUAL MEETING  OF SHAREHOLDERS May 21, 2025, 1:30 p.m. EDT  (10:30 a.m. Arizona time) Shareholders may participate  in the Annual Meeting by logging  on to"
"the following website:  VirtualShareholderMeeting.com/PNW CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS 400 North 5th Street Phoenix, Arizona 85004 MAILING ADDRESS P.O. Box 53999 Phoenix, Arizona 85072-3999 MAIN TELEPHONE NUMBER (602) 250-1000 CORPORATE WEBSITE PinnacleWest.com STOCK LISTING  TICKER SYMBOL PNW on New York Stock Exchange TRANSFER AGENT  AND REGISTRAR Computershare P.O. Box 505005 Louisville, KY 40233-5005 computershare.com/investor  CS#2501065 pinnaclewest.com"
