"PPL CORPORATION 2024 Sustainability Report  INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2 About this report This annual Sustainability Report has been prepared with reference to the  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards including GRI Electric Utility  Sector Supplement. We have also addressed topics identified in the   Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Electric Utilities and  Power"
"Generators and Gas Utilities and Distributors Standards, the   Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures, the EEI-AGA  Sustainability Report and the CDP Climate and Water Questionnaires. Our views about the company’s direct and indirect impacts, risks, challenges  and opportunities are presented throughout this report and in other publicly  available documents. This report covers activities that occurred in calendar  year 2024 and contains the best information available at time of"
"publication.  Unless otherwise noted, figures reported are through Dec. 31, 2024.   Environmental, social and governance data can be challenging to measure  accurately. We correct and report errors in prior-year data when found, and  we continually work to improve our data measurement, gathering and  reporting processes to increase the accuracy of information presented. The report is reviewed by the Board of Director's Governance, Nominating  and Sustainability Committee and the company's"
"leadership team, including  the chief executive officer. The Corporate Audit department has conducted  reviews related to the compilation of this report, including in-depth reviews of  specific metrics, as part of ongoing controls related to voluntary sustainability  reporting. An external audit has not been conducted. You can find more information about PPL and our sustainability performance  at pplweb.com/sustainability.   INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL"
"GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3 Table of Contents About PPL  Energy & Environment  Social Impact Governance   & Management   Appendix 5        Message from  our president and CEO 6   About our company 9     Performance data 12    Sustainability strategy 18      Clean energy strategy 23        Investing in innovation  26     Modernizing the grid  29        Energy efficiency  30   Natural gas operations  31      Environmental  management  37   Stakeholder"
"engagement  41      Economic development  42        Community engagement  43        Safety  46      Emergency management  47        Customer experience  50 Employee engagement 55  Governance 58   Financial performance  59       Enterprise risk  management  60 Cybersecurity  62       Supply chain   management  63   Ethics and compliance  65       Public policy 69        Voluntary  Disclosures Index 94 Alignment with UNSDGs 95        Metrics FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS IN THIS CORPORATE"
"SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  This Corporate Sustainability Report (“Report”) contains forward-looking statements regarding, among other things, our clean energy targets and achievement   of climate commitments by certain dates, and strategies or goals related to environmental performance. These statements, and all others that reflect beliefs, plans,  estimates, projections, goals, targets, expectations, strategy or any other forward-looking information, are “forward-looking statements” within the"
"meaning of the  federal securities laws. PPL Corporation believes that the forward-looking statements in this Report reflect reasonable expectations and assumptions. However,   it is important to understand that forward-looking statements, and their underlying assumptions, are subject to a wide range of risks and uncertainties, both known  and unknown.   INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4  At PPL, we"
"are committed   to creating utilities of the future  that are stronger, smarter,   increasingly clean and powered   by cutting-edge technology.  Vince Sorgi, PPL President and Chief Executive Officer  INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX America’s energy landscape is transforming at an unprecedented pace.   After years of stagnation, U.S. electricity demand is on the rise and forecast  to grow in 2025 at the fastest pace in decades,"
"driven largely by a surge in  data center development. At the same time, extreme weather poses challenges not seen for centuries.   And groundbreaking technological advancements, including generative  artificial intelligence (AI), offer enormous potential to transform our industry  and drive increased value for our customers, communities and shareowners. Against this backdrop, PPL is positioned to lead the transformation.   We recognize that our job is as important as ever. Importantly, we"
"understand  that to help our communities grow and prosper, to meet current and future  challenges, to keep energy affordable for our customers, and to drive   innovation that improves lives, we must create the utilities of the future. This is precisely our strategy at PPL. From Kentucky to Virginia to   Pennsylvania to Rhode Island, our shared focus is creating utilities that   are smarter, stronger, cleaner and powered by cutting-edge technology.   Our $20 billion of planned infrastructure"
"investment through 2028 fully  supports this strategy.  As we execute our plans and make steady progress: •    We're strengthening the reliability and resilience of our electric and  gas networks to protect against storms, reduce outages and recover more  quickly when they happen. This includes building to tougher design  standards, creating self-healing grids and deploying grid-enhancing  technologies to get the most from existing network capacity. •        We're advancing a cleaner energy"
"future affordably and reliably.   This includes expanding and modernizing our generation with natural   gas, renewables and battery storage, while supporting research and  development of low-carbon solutions, including carbon capture, small  modular nuclear reactors and long-duration energy storage. • We're driving operational efficiencies to help keep energy affordable  for the families and businesses that rely on us. This includes leveraging   AI and other advanced technologies to inform"
"decision-making, optimize  asset planning and maintenance, better manage supply and demand on  the grid, and deliver better outcomes for our customers. •       We're empowering customers through expanded digital options and  improved service, and we're engaging with key stakeholders to strengthen  resource adequacy, power economic development, and support the  growth and success of the regions we serve. •        Last but not least, we're developing and engaging a talented   workforce with the"
"skills to drive innovation, succeed and thrive in a  changing energy landscape. In pursuit of our responsible business strategy and guided by strong   governance, we are confident that we will continue to deliver a safe, reliable,  affordable and sustainable energy future that delivers long-term value for our  customers, our employees, our communities and our shareowners. We appreciate your interest in PPL and invite you to learn more about our  progress and plans in this report. PPL 2024"
"SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5 Message from our President and CEO  INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 6 PPL at a glance Safety  We never compromise on safety and   health for our employees, contractors,   customers and the public. We’re committed   to ensuring everyone on our properties   goes home safely at the end of every day. Passion  We love what we do, we bring our   energy and enthusiasm to work each"
"day, we care about each other, and we’re   driven to deliver long-term value for   our customers and shareowners. Innovation  We anticipate our customers’   future needs and innovate to   meet them. We’re agile, creative and   committed to continuous improvement. WHO WE ARE  PPL Corporation (NYSE: PPL), headquartered in Allentown, Pennsylvania, is a leading U.S. energy company   focused on providing electricity and natural gas safely, reliably and affordably to more than 3.6 million customers in"
"the U.S.   WHAT WE BELIEVE  Our SPIRIT values guide our progress toward becoming the best utility in the U.S.  Responsibility  Individually, and as teams, we’re accountable   for our actions and results. As a company,   we’re good stewards of the environment and   we strengthen the communities we serve. Integrity  We are transparent, ethical and fair in   all we do, and we comply with legal   and regulatory requirements. Teamwork  We act as OnePPL, one company   and one team. We leverage our"
"collective   and unique talents, knowledge and   experiences to deliver better results for our  customers. We value inclusion and respect.   PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 7 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX HOW WE MEASURE SUCCESS  As we pursue our vision to be the best utility company in the U.S., we define the best as combining   all of the attributes directly below, and we track and measure our progress against these goals.  $8.5"
"Billion in annual revenue 3.6 Million utility customers in the U.S. 6,600 Employees 7,250 MW of regulated generation capacity in Kentucky 74,000 GWh of electricity delivered 7,700 Miles approximate miles of gas distribution mains 87,000 Miles approximate miles of electric power lines Top decile in safety Premium stock   valuation relative to peers Top quartile in customer   satisfaction, reliability   and cost efficiency As of Dec. 31, 2024  INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY &"
"ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 8 Our companies  PPL’s high-performing, award-winning utilities are addressing energy   challenges head-on by building smarter, more resilient and more  dynamic power grids and advancing sustainable energy solutions. Louisville Gas and Electric Company   and Kentucky Utilities Company  Louisville Gas and Electric Company (LG&E) and Kentucky Utilities   Company (KU) provide essential energy services to more than"
"1.3 million customers throughout Kentucky and parts of Virginia.  LG&E and KU also operate over 7,250 megawatts of power   generation. PPL Electric Utilities Corporation PPL Electric Utilities Corporation (PPL Electric) provides electricity   distribution and transmission services to about 1.5 million customers  in Pennsylvania. Rhode Island Energy  Rhode Island Energy (RIE) provides essential energy services to  approximately 800,000 homes and businesses across Rhode Island  through the"
"delivery of electricity and natural gas. •  American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy ranking as     Leader of the Pack (RIE)  •  CPA-Zicklin 2024 Trendsetter Award for political disclosures and           accountability (PPL) •  Disability:IN recognition as a best place to work for disability        inclusion (PPL) •       Edison Electric Institute’s Emergency Response Awards in        recognition of recovery and assistance efforts related to extreme       weather (LG&E and KU, PPL"
"Electric and RIE) •  Electric Vehicle Adoption Leadership – Gold-level certification (RIE) •  ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year – Sustained Excellence          Award (PPL Electric) •  Escalent 2024 Customer Champions Award – Residential for        utility customer engagement (PPL Electric) •  Fair360 Top Utility for Diversity (PPL)   •  Forbes 2025 America’s Best Companies (PPL)  •  Fortnightly 2024 Top Innovator in Energy Transition Award (PPL)  •    J.D. Power ranked among highest performing"
"electric utilities           for customer satisfaction (KU)  •  Newsweek 2024 America’s Greatest Workplaces (PPL)  •         Site Selection recognition as a Top Utility in economic development     (LG&E and KU) •         VETSIndex recognition as 4-Star employer for military veterans (PPL) Awards and recognition  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 9 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Performance data Key performance indicators in support"
"of our sustainability efforts in 2024  ENERGY PORTFOLIO  2023 2024 GENERATION  Generation capacity (MW) 7,535 7,264 Owned net generation (MWh)   29,422,636 30,697,566 Generation efficiency (MMBtu/owned net MWh) 9.8 10.0 EMISSIONS  Net-zero goal-related emissions (CO2e) (metric tonnes)  25,795,238 27,094,395 Generation carbon emissions intensity (metric tonnes/owned net MWh) 0.853 0.861 Sulfur dioxide emissions intensity (metric tonnes/owned net MWh) 0.00042 0.00051 Nitrogen dioxide emissions"
"intensity (metric tonnes/owned net MWh) 0.00045 0.00045 Mercury emissions (Kg) 41 49 WATER Water withdrawal (megaliters/year) 379,422 428,087 Water intensity (m3 withdrawal/owned net generation) 12.89 13.95 Volume of water recycled and reused (percent total) 92.01% 89.72% WASTE Coal combustion products beneficially used (percent total) 71.9% 69.7%  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 10 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX INFRASTRUCTURE"
"2023 2024 ELECTRICITY Miles of distribution lines 75,497 75,802 Miles of transmission lines 11,076 11,063 NATURAL GAS  Miles of gas distribution mains  7,674 7,686 Miles of gas transmission mains  359 343 OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE EMPLOYEE SAFETY Total hours worked 13,058,862  13,176,701 Number of lost-day cases 25 35 Lost-time incident rate 0.38 0.53 Recordable incident rate 1.33 1.41 Work-related fatalities  0 0 RELIABILTY SAIDI - Average outage duration (in minutes)  78.84 84.15 SAIFI - Average"
"number of interruptions  0.67 0.73 CAIDI – Average restoration time (in minutes) 118.32 114.61 Average plant availability factor 87.71% 85.42% Unplanned outage rate 5.15% 4.71% Equivalent forced outage rate 1.64% 2.04%  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 11 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX RESOURCES AND COMMUNITY  2023 2024 CUSTOMERS Customer count (at end of year) 3,618,844 3,642,154 ENERGY EFFICIENCY  Incremental annual electricity"
"savings from energy-efficiency measures (MWh) 367,908 434,103 Natural Gas Energy Efficiency Measures (MMBtu) 318,621 241,413 Total rebates (in millions $) $120.77 $128.15 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND WORKFORCE Female representation, Board of Directors (percentage) 40% 40% Ethnically and racially diverse representation, Board of Directors (percentage) 30% 30% Female representation, executives/senior managers (percentage) 36% 38% Ethnically and racially diverse representation, executive/senior managers"
"(percentage) 17% 14% Total workforce 6,629 6,653 Female representation, workforce (percentage) 26% 26% Ethnically and racially diverse representation, workforce (percentage) 13% 13% SUPPLY CHAIN Total spent on diverse businesses (in millions $) $398 $399 Number of diverse businesses 231 193 COMMUNITY SUPPORT  Total charitable giving in communities served, including Foundation donations (in millions $) $13.6 $14.2 Total volunteer hours 31,829 30,715  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 12 INTRODUCTION"
"SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY   STRATEGY  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Our sustainability strategy We understand the decisions we make today can help shape our energy  future for generations to come.  We’re focused on advancing a cleaner energy future through innovation,  responsible resource management and investments in"
"infrastructure that  support a more reliable, resilient and efficient grid.  PPL collaborates with utility industry partners and benchmarks its   sustainability practices and environmental, social and governance   performance through the Electric Power Research Institute’s Sustainability  Interest Group and the Edison Electric Institute’s (EEI) ESG Committee. The company actively participated in developing the EEI and American   Gas Association (AGA) Sustainability reporting template for"
"investor-owned  utilities. PPL’s transparent, voluntary sustainability disclosures align with   the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures, Sustainability  Accounting Standards Board and the United Nations Sustainable   Development Goals frameworks.  In addition to the safety, reliability, customer satisfaction, cost efficiency  and valuation targets that define the company’s vision, PPL has adopted   a net-zero-by-2050 greenhouse gas emissions goal and has set targets   for fleet"
"vehicle electrification and building energy use. The company’s  commitment to greenhouse gas reductions is evident in the actions   described in the report and other sustainability disclosures, and by the  inclusion of certain sustainability metrics in officers’ long-term incentive  compensation.  PPL recognizes the importance of a highly-skilled and engaged workforce   to create the utility of the future. The company cultivates a culture of inclusion  and invests in the current and future"
"workforce through training and   development, succession planning, and creating a pipeline for recruitment  and internal advancement.  Sustainability priorities related to safety, employee engagement and   environmental stewardship, along with modeling of corporate values, are  incorporated into individual performance evaluations and annual incentive  compensation for all PPL executives.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 14 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL"
"GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX GOVERNANCE, NOMINATING AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE, BOARD OF DIRECTORS Oversees the company’s practices and positions to further its sustainability strategy and corporate governance, including   specific environmental and corporate social responsibility initiatives. CORPORATE LEADERSHIP COUNCIL AND KEY LEADERS Reviews, provides strategic input on and approves the company’s sustainability strategy and priorities. Executive leadership   (CEO, CFO, COO, CTIO, CLO,"
"CHRO), business segment presidents, the sustainability officer, and chief security officer guide   the development of the sustainability strategy and enable the integration of sustainability across the enterprise and in the   corporate strategy. CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE Provides oversight of and establishes the priorities and performance metrics. This committee is led by the senior sustainability   officer and includes senior leadership membership from operating companies, human"
"resources, compliance, risk, investor relations,  controller, legal, supply chain and corporate audit. SUSTAINABILITY CORE TEAM Cross-functional and enterprise-wide team of subject matter experts who conduct analyses of sustainability priority issues and  environmental, social and governance trends, and is responsible for developing environmental, social and governance disclosures. Sustainability governance  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 15 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY &"
"ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Energy & Environment  Social impact  Responsible Governance   & Management  •  LG&E and KU officially broke ground on  Mill Creek 5, a new state-of-the-art  natural gas combined-cycle generating  unit expected to begin serving power to  customers’ homes and businesses in  2027. Page 21.  •     PPL finalized an award for up to   $72 million in federal funding from   U.S. Department of Energy’s Office of  Clean Energy Demonstrations to help  fund"
"a groundbreaking carbon dioxide  capture research and development  project at the company’s natural gas  combined-cycle generation facility  in Louisville, Kentucky. Page 23. •      PPL’s employees and retirees, combined  with matching contributions from its  affiliated foundations, pledged nearly   $9 million during PPL’s annual   employee-led charitable giving campaign.  The year's record-setting contributions, in  partnership with United Way, will support  nearly 500 local nonprofit"
"organizations in  Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Kentucky  and Virginia.  •   Rhode Island Energy reached new  five-year contracts strike agreement   with Utility Workers Union of America  (UWUA), AFL-CIO, Locals 310 and   310B, and Brotherhood of Utility   Workers (BUW). The unions represent  526 employees. •       Completed the integration of Rhode  Island Energy’s processes onto   PPL systems. •     Implemented a new organizational design  that realigned resources and teams in  key areas across"
"PPL and has already  yielded significant benefits, including  increased best-practice implementation,  operational efficiencies and a heightened  culture of collaboration and continuous  improvement.  •     Implemented wildfire mitigation plans at  all of PPL's utilities despite generally low  wildfire risks throughout most of the  areas we serve.   2024 Sustainability Highlights   PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 16 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE &"
"MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Our sustainability priorities PPL’s sustainability strategy is informed by regular priority issues assessments, stakeholder outreach and peer benchmarking.   Assessments are conducted every two to three years to identify the issues most helpful to stakeholders   in evaluating the company’s environmental, social and governance performance and overall sustainability. •         Affordability – Drive innovation, agility, and operational and cost   efficiencies to preserve"
"affordability for customers.  •  Advancing cleaner energy – Reduce greenhouse gas emissions  associated with our energy generation and delivery while maintaining  reliability and affordability for our customers.  •   Community support – Improve vitality and quality of life in the   communities we serve through philanthropy, volunteerism and   economic development.   •       Customer experience – Engage with customers to deliver   industry-leading service and solutions. •      Cybersecurity and"
"grid protection – Maintain comprehensive risk  assessment and management strategy to protect the grid, customer and  employee data, and the company’s assets.  •      Drive digital innovation and R&D – Advance new technologies through  research, development and innovation in partnership with industry and  research institutions. •    Emergency preparedness – Maintain business continuity and prepare  for events that affect our ability to serve customers.   •   Environmental stewardship and resource"
"management – Minimize  our impact on the environment and communities we serve through  responsible resource management, conservation of natural habitats and  native species, and identification of culturally sensitive areas.  •       Governance, compliance and ethics – Maintain strong corporate  governance, transparent public policy engagement and compliance and  ethical business practices.  •      Modernizing the grid – Expand and modernize the grid to advance  electrification and promote"
"options to reduce customer energy use,  including energy efficiency.  •    Reliability & Resiliency – Enhance the reliability and resiliency of  critical infrastructure through continued investments and innovation. •   Safety – Provide leadership, guidance and support on safety measures  to ensure safety of the public, employees and contractors.  •     Supply chain management – Ensure supply chain resilience by   cultivating relationships with a strategic network of suppliers, vendors  and"
"service providers. •        Workforce engagement – Cultivate a culture of belonging and invest in  the current and future workforce through training and development,  succession planning, and creating a pipeline for recruitment and internal  advancement. Presented in alphabetical order.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX ENERGY &  ENVIRONMENT  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 18 INTRODUCTION"
"SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX As a power provider, we understand our customers count on us to deliver  safe, reliable and affordable service. This remains our primary focus as we  take steps to advance a cleaner energy future without sacrificing reliability  and affordability.   Our clean energy strategy enables progress toward our goals to reduce  carbon emissions to net-zero by 2050 through the following:  • Reduction of generation and"
"non-generation carbon intensity • Innovation and R&D to enable new technologies • Modernization of the grid We continue to evaluate our capital investment plans with this clean   energy strategy. In addition, we measure all proposed climate policies  against three core principles: customer focus and affordability, sustainability  and effectiveness. Our Climate Policy Principles are available online. Risks and opportunities associated with climate change  Factors such as shareowner and consumer"
"preferences as well as market  and regulatory changes can drive substantial changes in PPL’s business  model, including its services and portfolio of assets. Assessing climate risk using a long-term view (2050 endpoint), PPL in   2021 conducted a comprehensive climate assessment, including a scenario  analysis consistent with keeping global warming to no more than 1.5 degrees  Celsius (above pre-industrial levels), and we followed the recommendations  of the Task Force on Climate-Related"
"Financial Disclosures.  As a result of our actions over the past decade, PPL has reduced its risk  associated with climate change. The company’s portfolio is now heavily  weighted toward electricity transmission and distribution. We believe there  will be significant future investment opportunities in our electricity delivery  infrastructure and cleaner energy resources.  As PPL looks to the future, we will continue to take steps to identify,   understand and manage risks and opportunities"
"associated with climate  impacts and the changing energy landscape. These steps include evaluating  different options to inform business strategy, using modelling and input from  our internal experts and third parties, as needed, and reviewing assessments  with senior management and our board on an ongoing basis. Risks  Our businesses are subject to physical, market and economic risks relating  to potential effects of climate change. Climate change may produce changes  in weather or other"
"environmental conditions, including temperature or  precipitation levels, and thus may impact consumer demand for electricity.   In addition, the potential physical effects of climate change, such as   increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic   events, could disrupt our operations and cause us to incur significant   costs to prepare for or respond to these effects. Climate change may also  contribute to heightened risk or severity of wildfires, which could disrupt"
"our  operations and cause us to incur significant costs. Although the annual   FEMA National Risk Index for wildfires in the jurisdictions in which we   provide service is very low to relatively moderate, we've implemented   wildfire mitigation plans in each of our service territories. These or other  meteorological changes could lead to increased operating costs, capital  expenses or power purchase costs. Advancing a cleaner energy future  As PPL looks to the future, we will continue to  take"
"steps to identify, understand and manage  risks and opportunities associated with climate  impacts and the changing energy landscape.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Greenhouse gas regulation, if enacted, could increase the cost of electricity,  particularly power generated by fossil fuels, and such increases could have a  depressive effect on regional economies. Reduced economic and consumer"
"activity in our service areas – both generally and specific to certain industries  and consumers accustomed to previously lower cost power – could reduce  demand for the power we generate, market and deliver. Demand for our  energy-related services could be similarly lowered by consumers’   preferences or market factors favoring energy efficiency, low-carbon power  sources or reduced electricity usage. Key categories of risk stem from uncertainties related to the way customers  use electricity,"
"the performance of generation units, the price of fuel and other  commodities, and the future impact of new state and federal regulations.   In Kentucky, LG&E and KU prepare an Integrated Resource Plan every three  years and submit the plan to the Kentucky Public Service Commission.   With a planning horizon of 15 years, the primary focus of resource planning  is risk management. Through the IRP process, LG&E and KU model the  most reliable and affordable way to meet current and future demand,"
"including considering demand-side management, energy efficiency,   renewable resources, environmental policies and carbon pricing. Opportunities  Additional enhancements to the grid are necessary to make it stronger,   more resilient and better able to withstand increasingly frequent severe   storm events to enable increased connection of distributed renewable and  low-carbon generation sources. Under current regulation, PPL’s utilities   earn a return on these types of investments, which"
"supports long-term  earnings growth.  Data centers and their growing demand for energy could provide new  investment opportunities. Approximately 65% of PPL’s planned capital investments between now and  2028 are focused on transmission and distribution updates to promote   grid modernization and resiliency throughout our service territories.   The remaining planned capital investment is focused on improvements to  natural gas operations in Kentucky and Rhode Island and building new  generation"
"in Kentucky. As is typical for regulated utilities, we expect these  prudent capital expenditures to produce a return on equity consistent with  regulatory approvals in each jurisdiction. In Rhode Island, the adoption of California’s Advance Clean Cars II   regulation will phase out sales of new internal combustion engine light-duty  vehicles fully by 2035. This policy will drive the market predominantly toward  electric vehicles, causing an increase in electricity demand.  Additionally, PPL is"
"projecting strong load growth expectations related to a  surge in electricity demand from data centers and an increase in domestic  manufacturing within our service territories. PPL continues to support load  growth through its grid modernization and other transmission and distribution  investments in new or additional infrastructure required to support the  increase in electricity demand.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL"
"GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Emissions Reductions  PPL’s carbon reduction goals, established in 2021, were firmly grounded in  climate science and designed to be actionable and cost-effective while  accounting for transition risks. We discuss the development of these targets  and their alignment with the Intergovernmental Panel of Climate Change   P3 1.5° pathway in our 2021 Climate Assessment Report. We plan to   update our Climate Assessment Report in 2025 to incorporate updated"
"forecasts, analyses and ongoing business planning to reflect the rapidly  evolving energy landscape. At PPL, we recognize stakeholder interest in emission reduction targets that  are consistent with international climate goals. In response, we are actively  participating in the Electric Power Research Institute's SMARTargets project,  which seeks to develop a new methodology for emissions target setting that  is aligned with the global goals of limiting warming to well below 2 degrees  Celsius"
"and pursuing efforts to limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius.   This effort, which is targeted to be completed in the fall of  2025, is expected  to provide a more tailored approach to target setting, while enabling   companies to remain adaptable in the face of evolving policy and technology  landscapes. We plan to prepare and publish an updated Climate Assessment Report  following the decision on the 2025 generation investment plan filing in  Kentucky. We will be better suited to frame our"
"net-zero 2050 goal and any  updates to our interim targets when we have the results of the analysis for an  updated Climate Assessment Report. Scope 1   Emissions directly from owned or controlled  sources such as power generation and fleet  vehicles.   Scope 2   Indirect emissions from electricity purchased  and used by the organization; emissions are  created during the production of energy and  eventually used by the organization. Emissions  associated with all electric use in buildings"
"across all operations (PPL Electric, RIE, and  LG&E and KU building outside of our utility  service territory) are calculated based on  market-based factors. Scope 3   All other indirect emissions from upstream   and downstream activities across the supply  chain of a company, including any caused by  customers’ use of those products. These can  include emissions associated with business  travel, procurement, waste and water.   In 2024, PPL completed an assessment of  Scope 3 emissions to"
"determine material  categories. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Our net zero goal includes carbon and methane emissions within our direct control   (known as Scope 1 emissions), as well as Scope 2 and material categories of Scope 3 emissions.   Emissions data on all relevant scopes can found on pages 95-100.   PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 21 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Modernizing and diversifying our generation fleet  Maintaining"
"reliability and affordability for our Kentucky customers and  supporting economic development are critical components to modernizing  our generation fleet and reducing our carbon intensity.  We continue to implement a strategy that includes economically   retiring end-of-life coal-fired generation; building a mix of new natural gas  combined-cycle generation, solar and energy storage; and supporting   critical R&D into new low-carbon generation solutions.  In late 2023, LG&E and KU received"
"regulatory approval to retire 600   megawatts of aging coal generation and more than 50 megawatts of peaking  units; construct a new 640 megawatt combined-cycle natural gas plant; and  add more than 1,000 megawatts of solar generation and energy storage.   In 2024, we made significant progress in implementing these plans. Utilities expect new state-of-the-art natural gas combined-cycle   generating unit to begin serving power to customers’ homes and   businesses in 2027. LG&E and KU officially"
"broke ground on their newest generation   unit in November 2024. Mill Creek 5, a 640-megawatt natural gas   combined-cycle generating unit, is now under construction and   expected to begin powering customers’ homes and businesses   in 2027. Mill Creek 5 will be the utilities’ most efficient and advanced baseload  generating unit, producing electricity through both a gas turbine and a  steam turbine, which utilizes steam generated from the exhaust heat   in the gas combustion process. Natural"
"gas combined-cycle units   are among the most efficient gas-fired generating technology   currently available, producing 65% less carbon per megawatt hour   than coal-fired units. The project was approved in 2023 by the Kentucky Public Service   Commission as part of the utilities’ generation investment plan,   which also includes adding a significant amount of new solar and a  125-megawatt battery energy storage system. LG&E AND KU OFFICIALLY BREAK GROUND ON NEW GENERATING UNIT  PPL 2024"
"SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 22 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Reducing emissions across our operations  PPL is working to reduce emissions associated with operations of our electric  and natural gas delivery networks.  We are assessing opportunities for efficiency and renewable self-generation  to reduce energy usage at our owned buildings by up to 28% by 2030.  We’re making system enhancements necessary to meet electricity demand"
"over the long term to support electrification efforts by our customers,   including the adoption of electric vehicle transportation.  We are also working to reduce our own carbon footprint, taking a   common-sense approach to electrification of our fleet vehicles through  the following efforts:  • Right-sizing – Eliminating under-utilized vehicles in our fleet to reduce support costs and emissions. • Anti-idling – Adding automated anti-idle systems on all vehicles and vehicle shut off for select"
"vehicles. • ePTOs – Replacing diesel-powered hydraulic aerial lift on 100% of bucket trucks with electric-powered lifts by 2035. • Electrify where possible – Electrifying 35% of light-duty vehicles and forklifts, which make up about 55% of our fleet. • Annual analysis – Committing to annual assessment of technology maturity and electrification targets. Through these efforts, PPL expects to reduce fleet emissions by   41% by 2035 (compared to a 2021 baseline) without negatively impacting"
"customer costs.   The company’s electrification efforts include deploying charging stations  strategically. In 2024, PPL deployed two solar and battery powered charging  stations and is planning to install nine solar/wind/battery powered electric  vehicles chargers that also serve as streetlights. PPL also partnered with the  city of Louisville and the University of Louisville in applying for federal funding  to install up to 40 level-two electric vehicle charging stations across Louisville  and"
"Jefferson County, Kentucky, prioritizing local communities.  35% Fleet to be electrified  by 2035 (forklifts and  light-duty vehicles)  41% Reduction in fleet   emissions by 2035   (from 2021 baseline) 100%  Bucket trucks fitted  with electric lift   technology by 2035 28% Reduction in building  energy use by 2030   (from 2019 baseline)  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX PPL is investing in"
"innovation to advance new technologies to improve  reliability, resiliency and flexibility of the power grid while helping to usher in a  new era of sustainable energy.  We're partnering with industry and research institutions focused on several  key technology areas: advanced dispatchable renewables and power   electronics; long-duration energy storage and advanced demand response;  zero-carbon fuels (e.g., hydrogen); advanced nuclear energy; and carbon  capture, utilization and storage. We’re"
"engaged in more than 180 active research projects, steering key  industry partnerships and collaborating with industry and academia to enable   decarbonization.   Key partnerships include:  •     Investing in Energy Impact Partners’ (EIP) and the Westly Group’s global  investment platforms, which bring together leading companies and  entrepreneurs worldwide to foster innovation toward a sustainable energy  future. PPL has invested $50 million across EIP’s investment platform  aimed at"
"accelerating the shift to a low-carbon future and driving   commercial-scale solutions needed to deliver deep, economy-wide  decarbonization. PPL has also invested $10 million in the Westly Group,  a separate investment platform focused on innovation through digitization  and sustainability. Collaboration with EIP and the Westly Group provides  PPL with greater visibility into emerging technologies that can be   leveraged to advance the clean energy future.  •  Serving as an anchor sponsor of"
"the Low Carbon Resources Initiative, a  five-year initiative led by the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) and  Gas Technology Institute to help accelerate research and development of  low-carbon and zero-carbon technologies. The Low-Carbon Resources  Initiative is a collaborative focused on identifying, developing and   demonstrating affordable pathways to economy-wide decarbonization.  This initiative is pursuing fundamental advances in a variety of low-carbon  electric generation"
"technologies and low-carbon energy carriers, such   as advanced nuclear; carbon capture, utilization and sequestration;  hydrogen; ammonia; synthetic fuels and biofuels. Research also includes  assessing low-carbon pathways for producing, transporting and storing  these energy carriers, as well as opportunities to use them in power  generation, transportation and other applications.  •      Creating innovative partnerships with academia including our   longstanding partnership with the"
"University of Kentucky’s Institute for  Decarbonization and Energy Advancement (IDEA) at the PPL R&D  Center. The research aims to develop a flexible, net-negative CO2   emissions technology that will be directly applicable to natural gas   combined cycle power generation while minimizing the associated   capital costs of installing this technology. New strategic research   partnerships were made with the University of Rhode Island in offshore  wind, climate change and nuclear technology. A new"
"research partnership  with Kentucky State University (KSU) was established. •      Collaborating with more than two dozen companies to launch the   public-private Mercury Consortium to establish guidelines and best  practices to accelerate the adoption and impact of clean energy   technologies, such as EV chargers, heat pumps, solar panels, smart  thermostats and residential batteries. The consortium will focus on  enabling utilities to leverage these technologies to make grids more  resilient"
"and efficient to operate. •     Working closely with EPRI to launch their Data Center Flexible Load  Initiative (DCFlex), which plans to showcase innovative strategies for  integrating data centers with the grid under various conditions. The  initiative expects to demonstrate the potential for data center operational  flexibility to be used as a power grid resource. The following are examples of key research and development projects  Investing in innovation   PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 24"
"INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX started or active in 2024: •        Carbon Capture. Collaborating with the University of Kentucky’s Institute  for Decarbonization and Energy Advancement to create net-negative CO2  emissions. The collaborative, which includes the Electric Power Research  Institute (EPRI) and multiple industry partners, was awarded up to $72  million in federal funding from the Department of Energy (DOE) to help"
"fund a large pilot CO2 capture system at the company’s Cane Run Natural  Gas Combined Cycle unit. The captured CO2 from the system is planned  to be purified and reused by local industrial customers. In partnership with  the University of Kentucky and EPRI, we are also developing plans for a  full-scale carbon capture system at the company’s Cane Run Natural Gas  Combined Cycle unit for net neutral operation with a product stream of  99.9% purity carbon dioxide.  •       Nuclear. Building on an"
"earlier assessment of nuclear feasibility at   LG&E and KU's Ghent coal-fired power plant by exploring additional  locations and partnerships that could support nuclear energy in the  commonwealth. This is part of our ongoing efforts to evaluate all options  for future replacement of aging generation, as well as ways to support  energy-intensive customers with zero-carbon objectives. •    Transmission and Distribution. Collaborating with multiple partners on  11 active projects related to"
"transmission and distribution infrastructure  including microgrids, resilience and adaptation planning, asset   vulnerability assessments and robotic drone inspections of transmission  equipment.  •    Resiliency planning. Collaborating in the Climate Resilience and   Adaptation initiative (READi), a three-year initiative launched by the  Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) to address energy system  climate resilience and adaptation as extreme weather events continue to  increase. The"
"effort is focused on strengthening grid resilience against  potential climate and weather impacts. Climate READi will enable global  energy companies, climate scientists, regulators and other stakeholders   to proactively analyze and apply climate data, allowing for the planning,  design and operation of resilient energy systems of the future. PPL is also  collaborating with the University of Rhode Island and the University of  Kentucky on multiple resiliency focused projects. With the"
"University of  Rhode Island, PPL is evaluating changes in temperature variability and  extremes over recent decades to evaluate climate impacts on energy  demand, use and infrastructure. PPL is working with the University of  Kentucky to develop predictive models to provide insight on opportunities  for demand shifting or energy efficiency. •        Solar. Deploying new, state of the art, bifacial single-axis tracking solar  panels at our Renewable Integration Research Facility. The single-axis"
"tracking panels follow the sun as it moves through the sky. The bifacial  solar panels are more efficient than traditional solar panels because   they can absorb the sun from both the front and back surfaces. The  Renewable Integration Research Facility also hosts high-efficiency  360-degree tracking solar panels. In addition, we continue to partner with  the University of Kentucky to research ways to recycle solar panels and  reuse their input components to potentially lower costs, reduce"
"waste,   and improve sustainability.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX •         Solar Vegetation Management. After successfully adding a flock of  sheep to our E.W. Brown solar facility, taking the best practices and  adapting them, LG&E and KU have expanded this program to the Solar  Share solar farm and integrated sustainable vegetation management   with the previously installed pollinator"
"habitat. PPL previously won an  Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) Technology Transfer Award for   “Enhancing Solar Facility Vegetation Management Through Grazing and  Native Solutions” for our deployment of sheep and pollinators at our   E.W. Brown Solar Facility.  •   Wind. Deploying Kentucky’s first utility-scale wind turbine in partnership  with Northern Power Systems. The wind turbine is directly connected   to the battery storage system located at our Renewable Integration  Research"
"Facility, demonstrating how combining the strengths of solar,  wind, hydro and storage can provide more reliable and affordable   renewable electricity generation. In Rhode Island, we continue our   partnership with the University of Rhode Island regarding off-shore wind  and are applying jointly for federal research funding. •        Storage. Implementing battery-energy storage systems to provide clean  energy to customers during times of peak electrical demand. In Kentucky,  PPL R&D continues"
"to test the state’s largest lithium-ion battery at the  Renewable Integration Research Facility and evaluate opportunities for  newer long-duration energy storage technologies. PPL was recognized  with the Top Innovator in Energy Transition award for its Renewable  Integration Research Facility by Public Utilities Fortnightly. R&D teamed  up with the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) and the University of  Kentucky to publish lithium-ion battery operational and physical site safety"
"practices. We continue to partner with the University of Kentucky to  research ways to recycle lithium-ion batteries and reuse their components  to potentially lower costs, reduce waste, and improve sustainability. RIE is  piloting two battery-energy storage systems to improve resiliency and  performance. The two battery systems are designed to store electrical  energy during low-usage periods. One is a front-of-the-meter system,  meaning it will remain in an at-ready state and can be utilized"
"immediately  if an outage occurs to prevent customer loss of power. The second  system is a behind-the-meter system that can be charged and discharged  daily and used as a load peak-shaving asset to the customer’s load.   The battery systems could provide an option that not only avoids outages  but also avoids resorting to more expensive, less sustainable energy   alternatives during peak demand.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 26 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL"
"GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Modernizing the grid  Across our enterprise, PPL’s operating companies conduct robust   transmission and distribution planning each year to maintain compliance with  rigorous federal, state and industry standards, enable us to deliver energy  safely and reliably, and position PPL to support the clean energy future.  Throughout 2024, PPL continued to execute our utility of the future strategy,  completing $3.1 billion in planned capital investments to strengthen"
"the grid  against more frequent and severe storms; to speed restoration and recovery  when they occur; and to advance a safe, reliable and cleaner energy mix.  A significant portion of our investments in infrastructure improvements has  been focused on incorporating new technology and hardening transmission  and distribution systems to withstand weather-related impacts.  Advanced technology enables us to monitor and address the constantly  changing conditions on the grid. We’re installing"
"sensors, relays and   reclosers across the system to send back information in real-time, allowing  us to isolate problems and re-route power so the fewest customers are  affected for the shortest amount of time.  To help reduce maintenance costs, we are harnessing the power of digital  science and data analytics to tell us when parts need replacement. For  example, we can now reliably tell from corrosion rates and other data when   a piece of equipment might fail, and replace it preemptively,"
"thus avoiding   a power outage.  CAPITAL INVESTMENT PLAN  PPL is investing $20 billion between 2025 and 2028 33% Electric Transmission 30% Electric Distribution  20% Electric Generation (non-coal)  7% Gas Operations (LDC) 6% Electric Generation (coal-fired)1 4% Other 1 Investments are focused on environmental retrofits and maintenance to support reliability. As technology plays an increasing role in our business, we’re especially  attentive to cyber threats and other potential dangers to the"
"grid. We plan  and operate our system with the latest intelligence around cyber and   physical intrusion and regularly evaluate our security by testing our   system’s defenses. See page 60 for more information. Looking forward, PPL's $20 billion capital investment plan from 2025 to 2028  will build on our 2024 progress, further strengthening the grid and advancing  a safe, reliable, affordable and cleaner energy mix.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 27 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY"
"& ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX PPL has developed one of the nation’s smartest, most robust electrical grids  in its Pennsylvania service territory. We are leveraging what we have learned  in Pennsylvania to strengthen the reliability of our networks in Kentucky,  Rhode Island and Virginia. Investments to modernize and strengthen the grid include: •  Replacing aging equipment, often to higher design standards.  •         Installing smart grid technology and automation to"
"enable real-time  monitoring of system conditions, detect faults and quickly restore power  to as many customers as possible when outages occur.   •         Building new power lines and substations to support increased demand,  add redundancy and give us greater flexibility to reroute power.  •      Rebuilding existing power lines with stronger poles and wires to better  withstand extreme wind and tree impacts.  •    Installing devices to prevent lightning and animals from damaging  equipment."
"RELIABILITY PPL Total US AVG SAIDI 84.15 123.9 SAIFI  0.73 1.022 CAIDI  114.6 121.3 SAIDI is the average outage duration (in minutes), excluding major events.  SAIFI is the average number of interruptions per customer, excluding major events. CAIDI represents the average time (in minutes) required to restore service after a  sustained interruption occurs. 2023 U.S. Average. A lower number is better in each   of these metrics. Reliability and resiliency PPL Electric is deploying innovative Early"
"Fault Detection (EFD)   technology throughout its entire distribution network in Pennsylvania  following a highly successful pilot program.  The EFD sensors detect and repair failing equipment before outages  occur, allowing the utility to embrace a proactive approach to preventing   outages. This shift from unplanned repairs toward planned work leads   to improved worker and public safety, reduced costs associated with  operations and maintenance, improved reliability and increased"
"situational awareness about potential wildfire ignition sources. PPL Electric’s plan calls for the installation of more than 9,000 radio  frequency sensors across 1,200-plus distribution circuits by the end of  2028. To date, more than 1,900 sensors have been installed and have  helped identify 247 potential outage-causing issues and 296 other issues  that required additional review. Resolving these issues helped to prevent   momentary outages for more than 149,000 customers and permanent"
"outages for more than 93,000 customers. IMPROVING SAFETY, RELIABILITY AND EFFICIENCY THROUGH TECHNOLOGY •  Clearing trees and other vegetation that pose a threat to power lines.  •       Enhancing cyber and physical security to protect critical T&D assets.  •        Assessing flood risks at critical facilities, such as substations and power  plants, and relocating facilities or installing defenses, where necessary.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 28 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY &"
"ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX PPL operates highly regulated utilities and works at all times to comply with  the regulatory requirements of the jurisdictions in which it operates while  balancing stakeholder needs. We provide resources that give our customers  the choice to support cleaner energy options.    •  LG&E and KU is currently accepting enrollments in the sixth section of  their Solar Share facility. The subscription-based Solar Share program is  a cost-effective"
"option available to residential, business and industrial  customers who want to support solar energy for as little as 20 cents per  day. More than 2,700 LG&E and KU customers across Kentucky have  enrolled in the program that helps them reach their own renewable  energy goals. Upon completion, the Solar Share facility will have eight  sections and a total capacity of four megawatts. •         The Renewable Choice Calculator helps LG&E and KU customers  explore their sustainability options. By"
"inserting a few details – including  customer type and average monthly bill – the calculator uses the utilities’  Solar Share Program and Green Energy Program to provide a solution  that enables most customers to support renewables at a level that is  equal to 100% of their power consumption for less than $1 per day or  about 5% more on their monthly energy bill. •   PPL Electric complies with Pennsylvania’s Alternative Energy Portfolio  Standards Act. From June 2023 to May 2024, alternative"
"power sources  comprised 18% of the power purchased by PPL Electric for its default  service customers. This included 8% from solar, wind and hydropower  energy sources. Based upon the current alternative-energy standard,  Pennsylvania’s renewable energy obligations have plateaued at 18%.  Any increase to the obligation will require amendments to the state’s  statutes. •    The user-friendly Renewable Energy Connection website makes it   easier for PPL Electric customers to apply to connect"
"solar panels and  other generation systems to the grid.  •       PPL Electric’s Distributed Energy Resource Management System helps  PPL Electric integrate more distributed energy resources like private  solar while preserving network reliability and power quality. To date, PPL  Electric has connected more than 470 megawatts of renewable energy to  the grid. •       RIE supports the state of Rhode Island’s Renewable Energy Standard  (RES), which requires companies to supply a specific percentage"
"of   their retail electricity from renewable resources in the electric generation  they sell to Rhode Island customers. In 2024, the required percentage  was 28%.  •       RIE also offers two customer programs to encourage local renewable  energy connections. About 760 megawatts of renewable energy   resources have been connected by year-end 2024. •     PPL’s companies participate in the National Electric Highway Coalition.  More than 60 electric companies across the U.S. participate in this"
"alliance organized around the common goal of deploying EV fast  charging infrastructure to accelerate electric transportation.  Enabling clean energy resources   PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Energy efficiency  PPL empowers our customers to save energy and money while connecting  them to the resources they need to get the job done.  Collectively, energy-efficiency programs helped customers save"
"more than  434,100 megawatt-hours of electricity and reduced peak demand by nearly  78 megawatts in 2024. Programs to support natural gas energy efficiency  saved more than 241,400 MMBtu throughout 2024. PPL’s utilities share important energy-efficiency information with both   business and residential customers on a regular basis. This information is  distributed through online and television advertising, by mail, through digital  means and in person. It includes home-energy analytics, energy-"
"savings tips  and information about available energy-efficiency rebates.  Our companies offer a variety of services to help customers save energy,  calculate their indirect greenhouse gas and carbon emissions and adopt  renewable energy.  Programs offered include:   •        Online resources to make it easier to connect renewable         energy resources   •    Smartphone apps that allow customers to trace their carbon footprint   •        Conservation/home energy performance monitoring   •"
"Low-income weatherization   •   High-efficiency lighting   •    HVAC testing and tune-ups  •    New construction advisory services   •  Education resources on electric vehicles   •    Load management options with financial incentives to reduce demand      during peak hours   •   Appliance removal with incentives for replacement with          EnergyStar® appliances   •      Smart energy profiles and dashboards for monitoring usage       and performance  •      Energy-efficiency education  ENERGY"
"EFFICIENCY PROGRAM    78 MW Peak demand   reduction  $128M Total rebates    800K Total number   of participants    $200M Total utility   investment in programs    148K  Metric tonnes of CO2e emissions  avoided as a result of energy savings  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 30 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX In addition to providing electricity, PPL’s utilities in Kentucky and Rhode  Island also own and operate natural gas"
"distribution systems, and we   recognize the criticality of the natural gas system in maintaining safe,   affordable and reliable energy for our customers as we advance a cleaner  energy future. Our natural gas operations employ comprehensive natural gas safety   measures that include 24/7 monitoring by a central Gas Control Room;  conducting leak surveys; operating a Pipeline Integrity Management   Program that identifies and minimizes potential pipeline risks; and educating  community partners"
"and the general public about natural gas safety.    Additionally, both companies are in the process of implementing a Pipeline  Safety Management System. In Kentucky, LG&E’s system is made up of over 4,800 miles of natural   gas transmission and distribution lines; compressor stations that move the  gas through the system to customers; and natural gas storage fields that  enable LG&E to purchase gas when costs are low and store it for later use,  passing on the savings to customers. LG&E"
"continues to use in-line   inspection technology as its primary assessment method for its transmission  pipeline system and in 2024 responded to emergency calls on average in  about 31 minutes.  LG&E has completed multi-year infrastructure improvement projects that  have resulted in a reduction in methane leaks and gas loss and improved the  safety and reliability of the gas system. Enhancements to LG&E’s natural gas  infrastructure included:  •       Replacing gas processing equipment at"
"compressor stations, helping to           reduce energy usage and flare stack emissions.  •       Continuing the replacement of approximately 45,000 steel customer       service lines.  In Rhode Island, RIE’s natural gas system serves over 279,000 customers  and consists of 3,200 miles of natural gas distribution lines; over   170 regulator stations; and three liquified natural gas (LNG) storage and  vaporization facilities that are used during peak gas demand timeframes.  These assets allow RIE"
"to provide reliable gas service to our customers. RIE is currently implementing an asset modernization and gas distribution  line replacement program through the company’s Infrastructure Safety and  Reliability (ISR) Plan, which is resulting in improved safety and reliability   and a reduction in methane leaks and gas loss. RIE has made significant  progress since the plan launched in 2013, including: •       Replacing 519 miles of gas distribution lines defined as leak-prone pipe.       This"
"work has resulted in a 44% reduction in leak receipts per mile of          distribution main from 2013 to 2023.   •        Reconditioning four miles of large-diameter cast iron pipe.   •         Replacing 48 regulator stations and updating an additional 71 regulator         stations with three-layer protection to protect against over pressurization.   •        Phasing out low-pressure regulator stations RIE’s ISR plan for 2025 includes the replacement of 30 miles of leak-prone  gas pipe and five"
"to seven regulator stations.  Rhode Island’s Public Utilities Commission undertook a regulatory   proceeding investigating the future of gas use and infrastructure in the state,  a response to the 2021 Act on Climate, which requires economy-wide  greenhouse gas emissions reductions to net-zero by 2050. The commission is expected to issue recommendations specific to the  natural gas distribution system in spring 2025 to help inform the state’s   2025 Climate Action Strategy due on Dec. 31, 2025."
"Investing in safe, reliable natural gas service  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 31 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Environmental stewardship   and resource management  PPL’s operating companies have a strong commitment to compliance,  transparency and continuous improvement.  All facets of the daily operations of electric power and natural gas   companies can have an impact on the environment and as such are subject  to various"
"federal statutes including but not limited to the Clean Air Act,   Clean Water Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the   Endangered Species Act.  PPL works throughout all phases of its projects to avoid and minimize  impacts to the environment, especially in sensitive resource areas. We  routinely ensure structures and access roads are located to avoid impacting  sensitive areas like wetlands and waterways, as well as critical habitat for  rare, threatened or endangered flora and"
"fauna. Our Environmental Policy provides a framework to ensure we conduct  business in an environmentally responsible manner.  In addition to ensuring compliance with all state and federal environmental  regulations, we have a longstanding commitment to carry out all business  activities in ways that preserve and promote a clean, safe and healthy  environment.  The companies share best practices and provide regular performance  reports to senior leadership, and reporting of environmental"
"performance is  presented in annual reports available to the public.   Environmental Management   PPL’s environmental management system helps our operating companies  comply with applicable regulations, minimize our impact on the environment,  and continually improve our processes.  We implement and maintain systems and procedures to provide a systematic  approach to managing activities that could impact the environment and  ensure that we meet or exceed environmental laws and regulations."
"Senior  managers oversee environmental compliance and management and report to  executive leadership. Risks related to environmental management are  included in the Enterprise Risk Management process and reported quarterly  to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Procedures and plans include:    •       Air Emissions Compliance        •       Water Discharge Compliance      •       Waste and Byproduct Compliance          •       Groundwater Protection Planning         •       Spill"
"Prevention and Response Procedures        •       Environmental Audits and Assessments    •       Permitting, Monitoring, Recordkeeping, and Reporting    •       Avian Protection        •       Biodiversity and Habitat        •       Construction Employees are expected to conduct business in accordance with   PPL's environmental policy.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 32 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Water use and stewardship"
"PPL’s utilities support programs that protect waterways and the ecosystems  that depend on them in the service areas where the utilities operate and  collaborate with a variety of stakeholders and state agencies to ensure that  watersheds and reservoirs meet both the needs of the utilities and other  stakeholders, including the public. PPL carefully manages the water it uses and monitors the impact of   wastewater discharged into waterways. The company follows state and  federal regulations"
"regarding effluent guidelines. Point sources are regulated  under National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permitting and the  company monitors and reports pollutants with reasonable potential for  environmental impact. PPL’s utilities are located in eastern regions of the United States, with 0% of  operations working in areas of high water stress.  Water consumption of non-generation facilities – including call   centers, office buildings and administration sites, unmanned facilities"
"(i.e. substations), and other sites unrelated to direct energy generation –   is de minimus at this time.  PPL’s only operations with any significant water usage are the power   generation operations in Kentucky. No water used for our operations is  withdrawn from areas with high water stress, according to the World   Resource Institute’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas.   LG&E and KU operate four facilities in the Ohio River Basin, which is not  adversely affected by drought.  The utilities follow"
"best management practice processes where water-related  risks of operations are mitigated and controlled. While we are unable to  predict the outcome of current or future litigation or regulatory proceedings,  the company does not expect risks related to water management to have a  material impact on operations. LG&E and KU generation facilities monitor  and comply with all state and local water quality standards when the water  leaves our facilities. Information on this can be found in the"
"state report on  the Kentucky Energy and Environment Cabinet website. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration predicts the Ohio  River’s water levels daily and has never required LG&E and KU to reduce  non-hydro generation due to river temperature or water volume issues.   There is only one power plant, the Ohio Falls hydroelectric plant, that   could be impacted by water volume because it is a run-of-river dam.      384,000 Megaliters per year   of water discharged   428,000"
"Megaliters per year   of water withdrawn   44,000 Megaliters per year   consumed 90% Total Volume of   Water Recycled and Reused  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 33 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Waste management     PPL has high standards for managing waste from our operations. In keeping  with the company’s commitment to advance a cleaner energy future and  encourage responsible stewardship, we seek innovative solutions and"
"opportunities to reduce, reuse and recycle waste materials.  The companies have strong waste management programs in place focused  on recycling and eliminating hazardous waste. Other waste streams include  e-waste, cardboard, municipal trash, scrap metals, wooden utility poles and  coal combustion residuals.  This year, over 69% of the coal combustion residuals generated by   LG&E and KU were recycled for manufacturing wallboard and cement.   LG&E and KU have closed 18 coal combustion residuals"
"wet storage   impoundments. Only three facilities remain, with construction for closure  expected to be complete in 2025. None of the utility’s wet coal combustion  residuals storage impoundments receives sluiced materials for treatment in  compliance with the coal combustion residuals rule. 100% Universal Waste Diversion Rate   60% Non-hazardous Waste Diverted from Landfills  However, that plant accounts for only about 1% of the company’s power  generation.  Our water management strategy"
"includes:  •   Paying consumptive use fees to cover the costs of reservoir projects  and storage space, designed to benefit all users and maintain  adequate river levels during low flow periods.  •  Utilizing closed-cycle cooling at our generating plants to reduce the  volume of cooling water withdrawn from the region’s watershed.  •        Adhering to our Groundwater Protection Plan. •  Implementing a Stormwater Best Management Practices Plan.  •    Maintaining a Spill Prevention Control and"
"Countermeasure plan   that facilitates the safe storage of chemicals and oils on site. Proper  secondary containment and monthly tank inspections ensure   chemicals remain out of the watershed and groundwater. The companies also continue to decrease consumptive water use as they  improve power plant efficiency and have transitioned to dry-ash handling at  remaining coal-fired power plants in Kentucky.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 34 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT"
"SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Biodiversity     Biodiversity is an essential component of a healthy environment and   PPL is committed to developing solutions to preserve biodiversity and   restore ecosystems across the areas where we operate and in neighboring  communities.   PPL’s utilities have implemented habitat mitigation practices to prevent or  reduce detrimental effects on biodiversity from company actions and ongoing  operations, wherever possible. PPL’s biodiversity practices"
"comply with state, federal and local regulations.  In addition, our operating companies work extensively to ensure the   environment is protected while work is being done on the electrical and  natural gas delivery systems, especially in sensitive resource areas.  Our biodiversity strategy includes:  •       Ensuring compliance with all state and federal regulatory   requirements related to habitat management, watershed   management, biodiversity preservation and ecosystem restoration.  •"
"Adopting comprehensive Avian Protection Plans to protect birds   from coming in contact with electrical equipment and power lines. •    Using pollinator-supportive and native plants as part of construction,  maintenance and restoration activities where practical. •       Screening for High Quality and Exceptional Value watersheds and  streams, which are water body classifications that protect habitats  that may support high levels of biodiversity. •   Implementing habitat mitigation practices to"
"prevent or reduce  detrimental effects on biodiversity from company actions and   ongoing operations, wherever possible. •         Engaging with stakeholders when planning, building and operating  our energy infrastructure.   POWERING A PEREGRINE COMEBACK      For more than two decades, LG&E and KU have partnered with the  Kentucky Department of Fish and Wildlife Resources to help protect  the state’s peregrine falcons. As part of that program, the utilities have  established nesting boxes –"
"maintained by employee volunteers –   at several generating stations. Those boxes provide the falcons a  perfect location in which to raise their families and thrive in a safe  environment. Nearly 200 chicks have fledged from nesting boxes placed at LG&E  and KU generating stations over the past 20-plus years. In 2024, eight  peregrine falcons nested at the Mill Creek, Trimble County and Ghent  generating stations. The public can check out the action live by tuning in to the utilities’ live"
"falcon cam every spring.  •      Conducting rigorous invasive monitoring, treatment and eradication  on our Rights-of-Way that cross state-owned and federally owned  lands. By controlling invasive plants, this promotes the presence,  abundance and/or biodiversity of native plants on these sites. •       Partnering with state and non-governmental agencies to identify and  protect species of concern in proposed work areas before work is  executed and permits are requested.  •   Supporting"
"community initiatives to protect the environment through  charitable contributions, volunteering and direct engagement on  restoration efforts.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 35 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Vegetation management     Effective vegetation management along distribution and transmission lines is  a critical part of maintaining the reliability our customers depend on to power  their homes and businesses.  Our"
"vegetation management program is designed to promote the safe and  reliable operation of the electric grid, while making sure that we are sensitive  to both the concerns of property owners and our obligations to electricity  customers. We work with conservation, land management and environmental  groups, on both state and federal levels, to advance common goals of  electric reliability and environmental stewardship. As the No. 1 cause of outages, trees and other tall vegetation need to be  kept"
"away from power lines. If they get too close, power outages can result.  Tree-related outages can potentially affect thousands of customers for  extended periods of time. Keeping overhead power lines clear of limbs and  brush also enables our crews to detect and repair issues that impact service  during storms. Tree interference also poses potentially significant safety risks  to our employees and the public. PPL’s utilities all conduct tree clearance trimming throughout their   service areas on"
"cycles to maintain reliable service. The utilities use   integrated vegetation management practices to encourage compatible  species that reduce the need for herbicides. Our vegetation management  practices promote healthy ecosystems and provide measurable results,   such as greater biodiversity along rights-of-way to limit and control   non-native species. The utilities also use light detection and ranging technology (LiDAR) to map  vegetation, including individual trees adjacent to"
"transmission rights-of-way.  This technology helps our foresters identify trees that represent a risk to our  electric facilities. The system is designed to assist in prioritizing vegetation  management activities so tree crews can be deployed more precisely.  In addition to tree trimming, which is a critical part of maintaining the   reliability of the grid, the vegetation management team is also committed   to enhancing the environment and landscape. We provide trees, saplings  and native"
"plants to public and conservation groups throughout Kentucky,  Pennsylvania and Rhode Island. Collectively, more than 40,000 saplings   are donated annually throughout our service territories. 76,000 Miles of distribution lines  11,000 Miles of transmission lines RHODE ISLAND ENERGY NAMED A  2024 TREE LINE USA UTILITY Our focus on vegetation management best practices not only ensures  reliable service but also contributes to a greener and healthier   community. That dedication has now earned"
"Rhode Island Energy  recognition from Tree Line USA for their commitment to urban forestry. Rhode Island Energy achieved the Tree Line USA recognition by  meeting five program standards: quality tree care, annual worker  training, tree planting and public education, a formal tree-based energy  conservation, and sponsorship of or participation in an Arbor Day  celebration. Tree Line USA, a partnership between the Arbor Day Foundation and  the National Association of State Foresters, recognizes"
"public and  private utilities for pursuing best practices that protect and cultivate  America’s urban tree canopy. In addition, Tree Line USA promotes  delivering safe and reliable electricity while maintaining healthy   community forests.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 36 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX SOCIAL IMPACT  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 37 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE &"
"MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Stakeholder engagement  Our operating companies have a history of community engagement and  public meetings to support development activities and engage with   stakeholders regularly throughout the year.  That continuous and ongoing engagement is critical as we work to create  next-generation utilities. Whether we are building and maintaining more  resilient and reliable infrastructure or transitioning to cleaner energy sources,  we are helping to ensure a balanced,"
"responsible and just transition that  considers the impact on our employees, communities and customers.  PPL engages with our stakeholders regularly and values the insights they  provide as we work to deliver results for today and set strategic goals for   the future.  Communities •       Ongoing discussions and partnerships with   environmental groups related to operational activities  •   Power plant advisory committees for facility   neighbors  • Support for events and programs of nonprofits,"
"chambers  and associations  • Volunteerism (board service, events, long-term programs)  Customers •  Billing statements and messaging •      Consumer advisory panels •      Customer commitment advisory forums •   Customer feedback   (surveys, online comments, phone calls) • Demand-side management/energy   efficiency advisory groups •      Customer Assistance Expos •     Email newsletters •     J.D. Power survey  •    Market research •       Press releases and media opportunities •"
"Websites Government  (local, state, federal) • Attendance at, and participation in, meetings   and hearings with regulators and policymakers •  Continuous dialogue Industry Associations Attendance at regular meetings and conferences   and active participation in organizations such as:  •        American Gas Association •      Edison Electric Institute •     Electric Power Research Institute •     Energy Storage Association •    Smart Electric Power Alliance •         State and regional chambers"
"of   commerce and industry associations Employees •         Business resource groups •      Company intranet • Employee feedback (via surveys) •    Performance reviews •   Safety and health committees  •         Town hall meetings •    Training events Shareowners •   Investor calls •        Investor relations website •    Ongoing discussions through meetings and calls •        Quarterly earnings news releases Suppliers •    Supplier meetings  •    Supplier networking summits •   Supplier"
"sustainability surveys OUR STAKEHOLDER GROUPS' APPROACH TO ENGAGEMENT  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 38 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX As markets, customers, and the generation and delivery of energy   evolve, PPL remains true to our commitment to conduct business in an  environmentally responsible manner. Additionally, we proactively take  measures to bring value to all of our customers, create sustainable   communities and"
"treat our employees with dignity and respect. Our approach  takes into consideration equitable access and affordability for all customers  in the planning and program design; complying with existing local, state and  federal laws while ensuring community awareness and involvement; and  ensuring the workforce and local economy benefit as we advance to a  cleaner energy future.   Empowering all customers  Whether siting new power lines or installing environmental controls on  existing generating"
"plants, PPL encourages improvements that reduce our  environmental impact, invest in new infrastructure, empower customers with  new options, and drive innovation that benefits society. We believe decarbonization and grid resiliency are broad benefits to be  enjoyed across all communities. We are focused on investing in infrastructure  improvements that will improve resiliency, deliver cleaner energy and   enhance associated program offerings, such as electric vehicle charging and  energy"
"efficiency, to all communities that both want and need it.  INNOVATIVE SOLAR PARTNERSHIP   HELPS OFFSET MONTHLY ELECTRIC BILLS LG&E and KU continue to see success from a partnership using  renewable energy to benefit Kentucky families. In 2024, Kentucky’s  Office of Energy Policy added its support of a partnership with   Kentucky Habitat for Humanity to provide eligible low-income families  with subscriptions to the utilities’ Solar Share Program. The utilities’ gifting option, approved by the"
"Kentucky Public Service  Commission in 2019, enables program subscribers to transfer monthly  solar share credits to another recipient, such as a loved one, friend or  organization. In 2024, Kentucky’s Office of Energy Policy was able to use federal  State Energy Program funds to increase the number of shares   subscribed and extend assistance to additional low-income families  through this innovative partnership. As a result, there are 14 families  that have a portion of their utility bill"
"offset. Advancing a cleaner energy future for all communities  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 39 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX We recognize that our infrastructure projects have the potential to impact  local communities. We leverage more than a century of experience   developing and maintaining the systems that keep electricity and natural gas  flowing, and we have long-established practices to ensure we are focused on"
"engagement, access, affordability and community support in every project we  develop, including:   •         Using environmental screening to identify all communities impacted  by projects under development. •    Seeking early and frequent stakeholder engagement, including  public open houses and public feedback surveys. •         Communicating with plant advisory committees and plant neighbors. •     Providing timely and transparent information. •         Working with local community leaders. •"
"Expanding community support and development efforts. •  Engaging with stakeholders, including regulators, customers,   employees, commercial and recreational groups, and the community  at large to assess potential impacts of development activity,   environmental initiatives and actions stemming from the company’s  business activities.  •     Supporting and utilizing leading research and investing in innovation  to advance sustainable resource management and reduce our   environmental impact."
"Across our service territories, our teams work with various partners as   we aim to minimize our operational impact on sensitive resource areas,  protecting biodiversity and ecosystems. In addition, we offer grants to  environmental conservation organizations for community revitalization;  support research and development projects related to pollinator habitat  protection; manage pollinator habitats at company facilities; work to identify  and protect species of concern in proposed work areas;"
"and provide trees  and pollinator-friendly plants to county and municipal parks, environmentally  focused groups and schools through various distribution programs. Environmental impact considerations  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 40 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Responsible business practices We carefully consider environmental and economic factors that impact  employees, communities and customers when assessing and planning"
"development activity.  The company has developed an engagement strategy that outlines the  considerations, resources and plans we’ll use to engage our stakeholders   as we work toward a cleaner energy future. We take into consideration best  practices, lessons learned from past experiences, available data and ways   to include internal and external stakeholders in this process.  Our approach to stakeholder engagement for projects that have the potential  to impact communities significantly we"
"serve includes:  •   Identifying key internal stakeholders and accountable owners. •         Conducting a project-needs assessment. •        Assessing outreach and planning considerations.  •      Creating a profile of the impacted area. •      Identifying external stakeholders.  •   Organizing community outreach. •        Establishing a strategic communications plan. With PPL’s Kentucky-based power plants providing hundreds of well-paying  jobs and ongoing tax revenues for the communities in"
"which they operate,   we know that the retirement of a power plant can have a significant impact on  employees and the community. To help ensure an orderly transition for our  employees and the communities we serve, we work to retire power plants   in a way that aims to be the least disruptive to the local economy, including  through employee retraining programs. We engage with regulators,   customers, employees and the community early and often during a multi-year  process as we economically"
"retire existing generation and construct   replacement generation, often on the same site as the retired unit. LG&E and KU’s long-standing commitment to being good corporate citizens  within the communities they serve allows them to better understand the  unique challenges and interests facing each community. LG&E and KU’s  community relations and government affairs departments have pursued a  strategy of engagement through customer interaction, local community   board memberships, active"
"participation within neighborhood groups, and  consistent dialogue with elected officials. The companies have successfully retired plants in the past with minimal to   no disruption to the workforce or our local communities. The companies’ plan  for generation plant retirements through 2027 includes consideration of  employee impacts through multi-year workforce planning, with job impacts  expected to be minimized through attrition, internal transfers, planned  retirements, retraining and"
"staffing new power plants. The companies’ planning provides:  •      Flexibility for each location to address its specific needs.  •         Less disruption to the workforce and community.  •      Opportunities for continued reinvestment and reuse of existing  generation sites. •     Ability to support economic development through replacement with a  reliable, affordable and resilient energy portfolio.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 41 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT"
"SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Economic development Contributing to the economic vitality of our communities  Mapping out long-term energy plans that contribute to economic vitality is  part of the way PPL’s companies work to provide a bright future for the  communities we serve. We understand enhancement and construction of  utility infrastructure, at a reasonable cost, is vital to attracting and retaining  businesses that create jobs for our communities. We provide incentives to"
"support economic development efforts. For   example, LG&E and KU’s Economic Development Rider – an incentive rate  for existing industry expansions, new project locations and redevelopment  initiatives within the service area – continues to be recognized as an   exemplary business attraction tool. The company’s economic development  and major accounts team works with state, county and local officials, regional  partners, site consultants, real estate developers and industry associations  on"
"potential business relocations and expansions.  In Pennsylvania and Rhode Island, the utilities’ key account managers   work to engage business and industrial customers to help them get the most  from their energy dollar through the utility’s energy efficiency programs.   They also serve as liaisons with operations to assist with the electrical power  needs of large customers and proactively address potential reliability issues.  In addition, the companies’ community relations teams are actively"
"involved  in various organizations dedicated to helping communities thrive.   To contribute further to economic development in our regions, PPL’s   subsidiaries and their executives are actively involved in business   organizations, such as local chambers of commerce and economic   development organizations. A CRITICAL PARTNER IN ECONOMIC GROWTH  Electricity is a keystone for economic growth. Maintaining a strong,  reliable electric grid and fair prices ensures companies invest in  communities"
"within our service territories.  When PPL Electric learned about plans for a business park that   would help drive economic growth in rural Pennsylvania, the   company collaborated with developers and businesses to develop an  infrastructure plan that was a critical component in attracting business  and improving reliability for all customers in the area.  The project included construction of a new 69-to-12kV distribution  substation; over two miles of new overhead distribution lines; and"
"several new remotely operable smart grid devices. The completed Great Stream Commons business park is a great  example of how the company collaborates with developers and   businesses to support commercial and industrial growth in the   communities we serve.   PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 42 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Community engagement  Strengthening the communities we serve  As we work to create the utilities of the"
"future, we strive to be a responsible  corporate citizen and support the communities in which we live and work.  Volunteerism and charitable giving are key in our efforts to be an active and  positive force in our communities.  Charitable giving – through each utility and their affliated foundations – helps  to bolster education; foster partnerships that support the growth and vitality of  the communities we serve; develop the future workforce of the energy sector;  conserve and protect our"
"environment and strengthen local communities.  Collectively, PPL’s operating companies and affiliated foundations   contributed more than $14.2 million in 2024 to support local organizations  through annual grant and charitable giving programs in Kentucky,   Pennsylvania and Rhode Island. The support is one of the many ways the  company works year-round to uphold its values, which include a focus on  corporate citizenship. Our employees support their local communities through volunteerism and"
"charitable contributions. In 2024, the company’s employee giving campaigns.  raised nearly $4.5 million in employee and retiree pledges. Together with  matching funds from the affiliated foundations, which match contributions  dollar for dollar, $9 million will go to support local nonprofits in each of the  states in which we operate.  MAKING A POSITIVE IMPACT   At PPL, we are proud to make a difference in the communities we  serve, and we are proud of our employees who spend countless hours"
"giving back and exemplify PPL’s caring spirit.  Every year, we hold a company-wide volunteer event, Day of Caring,   in celebration of our United Way and Power of One campaigns.  In 2024, nearly 700 PPL employees joined forces to make a difference  in the communities we serve in Pennsylvania, Kentucky and Rhode  Island.   The day was spent engaging in various activities helping 30 nonprofit  organizations. From planting trees, to painting, to beautifying school  grounds to packing emergency food"
"boxes for seniors and veterans,  PPL employees made a hands-on difference.  This annual day of service continues to outperform and evolve, with a  near 75% increase in volunteers last year. $14.2 million Total Company and   Foundation Charitable Giving   31,000 Number of Employee   Volunteer Hours  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 43 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX We never compromise on safety and health for   our employees,"
"contractors, customers and the public. Safety is more than a commitment at PPL. It’s a value that is rooted in  everything we do.  PPL’s operating companies have a strong accident-prevention culture.  Employees embrace health and safety at a grassroots level, holding each  other accountable and sharing best practices to reduce risks and eliminate  workplace accidents. Our approach is outlined in our health and safety policy.  In 2024, we undertook several initiatives focused on improving our"
"safety  performance. • Rolled out safer work practices to reduce electrical shock and flash hazards within electric operations. • Continued to empower bargaining unit safety advocates to enhance employee engagement, observe work done by peers and recommend ways to improve safety. • Implemented Stop Work Authority, which empowers employees and contractors to stop work at any time if they perceive unsafe conditions or behaviors. • Initiated a review of and selected bucket truck self-rescue devices"
"to be rolled out in 2025. • Completed various contractor safety assessments and audits to identify potential risk areas. • Introduced mitigation efforts to reduce high energy hazards and Serious Injury & Fatality (SIF) events. • Expanded the use of athletic trainers across all three operating companies. • Introduced and expanded AEDs within select frontline worker vehicles. • Revised job brief forms to enhance hazard identification and mitigation. • Updated the written Contractor Safety Program"
"to clarify existing requirements and introduce additional safety measures for our business partners. Safety 2024 EMPLOYEE SAFETY  LKE PPL Electric PPL Services RIE  TOTAL   Total Hours Worked 5,240,367 3,283,267 2,057,854 2,595,214 13,176,702 Number of lost-day cases 12 5 0 18 35 Lost-Time Incident Rate 0.46 0.30 0.0 1.39 0.53 Recordable Incident Rate 1.45 1.28 0.0 2.62 1.41 Work-related fatalities  0 0 0 0 0  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 44 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY &"
"ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Our ultimate goal is to ensure that everyone remains safe and healthy at  home and on the job. Components of our program include: •    Hazard assessment and mitigation – Aggressively identify, assess        and mitigate hazards of all types before they cause injuries.  •        Incident investigation and reporting – Perform a root-cause analysis            and meaningful investigation and report after the failure of any safety or      health"
"control that results in an incident or a near-miss/close call. •         Employee involvement – Capitalize on the company’s most valuable        resource, employees, by actively creating and facilitating opportunities to     become involved in loss-prevention efforts. PPL has voluntary employee          safety committees across the company in virtually every business unit           that plan and execute safety improvement activities. These committees,          with representatives from from the"
"field, back office and management,           communicate safety messages to employees and hold regular safety        meetings. In addition, collective bargaining agreements contain         language that references the need for a strong health and safety        advisory committee. •   Job briefings – Ensure that employees participate in a job briefing prior       to the start of any work related to natural gas or electricity operations. •    Compliance – Ensure that all business areas and"
"employees comply        with local, state and federal regulatory requirements. •        Vehicle incident prevention – Ensure employees have the         resources, skills and knowledge necessary to drive safely and           defensively in order to reduce the number of vehicle incidents. •       Business partner relationships – Foster better communication and        closer working relationships between employees and business partners            to strengthen the company’s safety culture. •"
"Near-miss/close-call reporting – Report all incidents that could        have resulted in injury, so hazards can be addressed to prevent similar         incidents in the future.  •     Empowerment – Seize the freedom, responsibility and accountability      for controlling and correcting unsafe work without repercussions. •     Communication – Foster reciprocal communication that will support       safe work habits and a hazard-free environment. •       Leadership – Demonstrate the courage and"
"knowledge to correct           unsafe actions, ensure the safety and well-being of co-workers and      promote safety as the most important thing we do. •     Health and wellness – Maintain and cultivate a culture of health and            wellness to reduce injuries, promote preventive screenings, reduce      healthcare costs and maintain a healthy workforce. Safety programs  SETTING A 15-YEAR SAFETY RECORD  Twenty-six current (and 14 now-retired) employees from Kentucky  Utilities’ Maysville"
"Operations Center worked more than 750,000 hours  over a span of 15 years without a lost-time injury. The last lost-time  injury occurred more than 5,550 days ago in April 2009. The Electric  Distribution Operations employees serve more than 46,000 customers  across 12 Kentucky counties. The achievement showcases the teamwork and dedication to safety  that is required to overcome the daily hazards encountered in this field.  Keys to the group’s success are employee commitment, engagement  and"
"effective communications that are deep-rooted in the Maysville  Operations Center’s safety culture. Safety is also very personal for the  employees who work there.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 45 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Contractor Safety  PPL’s commitment to safety encompasses our contractors, who are  contractually obligated to comply with stringent safety and health   requirements.  Our standard contract language"
"includes expectations that contractors  maintain current operator qualifications needed for job requirements.   PPL also provides training to satisfy these qualifications, where necessary.  Contractors are required to comply with all applicable laws, regulations,   and industry standards.  Community Safety  We also have a responsibility to keep our communities safe in addition   to conducting our day-to-day work activities safely. We provide safety   resources and conduct in-person electrical"
"hazard awareness sessions   for customers, students, first responders and contractors to ensure safe  practices in our communities. Our public safety websites offer additional  safety resources to help ensure safe and effective work near and around  electrical facilities by all.  With use of our Live Line Electrical Safety Exhibits we conducted over   115 public safety demonstrations throughout our service territory for over  13,000 first responders, contractors and customers in 2024.  2024"
"CONTRACTOR SAFETY  LG&E and KU PPL RIE CONTRACTORS (Total) Total Hours Worked 7,016,193 4,330,776 1,183,738 12,530,707 Number of lost-day cases 9 3 5 17 Lost-Time Incident Rate 0.26 0.14 0.84 0.27 Recordable Incident Rate 1.03 0.88 1.35 1.01 Work-related fatalities  0 0 0 0 PPL ELECTRIC SAFETY PROGRAM  REACHES 10-YEAR MILESTONE PPL Electric's safety program, which teaches children about electrical  safety, celebrated its 10-year milestone in 2024.  The program has educated nearly 170,000"
"elementary students across  PPL Electric's 29-county service territory in Pennsylvania.  It includes in-school theater presentations and supplemental digital  materials like e-books and games.  Additionally, the E-Smart Kids website offers interactive resources  to help children learn about electricity and safety. ​   Visit ppl.e-smartkids.com for more information.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 46 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX"
"Emergency Management  PPL’s corporate emergency management plan summarizes the prevention,  mitigation, preparedness, response, business continuity and recovery  activities that serve as the comprehensive integrated approach to   establishing and maintaining an effective response to and recovery from  internal or external disasters.  The ultimate goal of our emergency and disaster plans is to ensure the  resiliency of the electric and gas service we provide to the communities we  serve.  With a"
"focus on safety and reliability, PPL’s operating companies maintain  business continuity plans and policies and procedures for responding to a  variety of emergencies as required by regulatory agencies. The company  conducts regular training including drills and tabletop exercises that connect  employees with key stakeholders to ensure preparedness.  We work closely with public safety and emergency preparedness   organizations to coordinate responses to emergency events. To help restore"
"electric service to communities after catastrophic emergencies or significant  natural events, LG&E and KU, PPL Electric and Rhode Island Energy are  among the utilities that developed RESTORE, or Regional Equipment  Sharing for Transmission Outage Restoration.  PPL’s crews often are called upon to help restore power in other regions   as part of a mutual assistance agreement. When releasing employees for  assistance, the company always takes into consideration its own customers’  needs and"
"ensures it has plenty of resources available for maintenance  work and emergency situations back home. The crews providing assistance  represent a fraction of the people available to maintain and repair our   systems. With utilities spread across different geographic regions of the U.S.,   the company is able to take a OnePPL approach in addition to mutual  assistance. When one of PPL’s operating companies needs support, we are  able to share company resources from one utility to another to"
"assist with  restorations.  Clear communication is the hallmark of our strategy that leads to successful  disaster management with less confusion, and we work closely with public  safety and emergency preparedness organizations to coordinate responses  to emergency events.  Our emergency management plan considers: •         The response to real-world and simulated emergency scenarios            and disasters.  •       The recovery of time-sensitive processes in accordance with     pre-"
"established recovery time objectives.  •    The restoration and ultimate return to a permanent operating            environment.  •         Support to existing local response plans. The Emergency Management team conducts hazard vulnerability analysis on  an annual basis to evaluate natural, man-made, technological and hazardous  materials risks and vulnerabilities.  Each employee is required to complete annual training, which addresses  all-hazards information for the employee based on the"
"Corporate Emergency  Management Plan and Corporate Security Plan.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 47 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX The PPL family of companies provides essential energy services to more  than 3.6 million customers in the U.S. Through our regulated utility   subsidiaries, PPL delivers electricity to customers in Kentucky, Pennsylvania,  Rhode Island and Virginia; delivers natural gas to customers in Kentucky and"
"Rhode Island; and generates electricity from power plants in Kentucky. We  strive to provide the highest quality service, safely, reliably and affordably, to  our customers, improving quality of life in the areas we serve. Customer experience  Customer Care and Support   Customer feedback is important to us as we look to continuously improve   our quality of service. PPL relies on independent market research firms to  conduct periodic customer satisfaction surveys. Customer feedback is  obtained"
"through telephone and online surveys, advisory boards, focus  groups, online panels, mail surveys and customer service lines. We use   the results of this feedback to evaluate our service, identify customer   interests and concerns, determine critical needs and offer our customers an  opportunity to communicate their interests and concerns. We also   measure customer satisfaction for specific transactions to ensure we are  providing the best customer experience possible. In addition, we"
"subscribe to  syndicated studies, such as J.D. Power, to benchmark performance among  utility peers and as another way to gain insight about our customers from an  objective source. We offer convenient customer care and support 24/7. Customers can   connect with us through phone, emails, live chat, web self-service, interactive  voice response and mobile apps. Customer feedback is important to us as   we look to continuously improve our quality   of service. 2024 CUSTOMERS   LG&E-KU (Electric)"
"LG&E (Gas) PPL Electric  RIE (Electric) RIE (Gas) TOTAL Residential  862,392 308,277 1,297,963 453,597 253,668 3,175,897 Commercial 151,857 26,900 188,721 65,861 25,297 458,636 Industrial 2,227 402 2,913 1,694 290 7,526 Municipals/Wholesale 3 - - - - 3 Gas Transport - 92 - - - 92 TOTAL 1,016,479 335,671 1,489,597 521,152 279,255 3,642,154  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 48 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Affordability and"
"Assistance  Our business strategy prioritizes affordability, and we continually seek to  work more efficiently by eliminating redundancies, improving processes and  using more automation to minimize costs while maintaining our high level of  service. PPL achieved annual O&M savings at the top end of our targeted  range of $120-$130 million in 2024. The increased efficiency was driven  largely by the continued deployment of smart grid technology, automation  and data science. Delivering our"
"targeted annual O&M savings helps keep  energy affordable for customers. PPL’s utilities have helped connect customers to more than $43 million in  energy assistance in 2024 through funds generated by employee and  customer donations, state and federal programs, local agencies, foundation  grants and other sources. Our customer service teams helped more than  200,000 customers across our service territories in Kentucky, Pennsylvania,  Rhode Island and Virginia.  In Kentucky, Winterhelp,"
"WinterCare and WinterShare are third-party  heating assistance programs that provide heating assistance for the utilities’  qualifying customers. The assistance offered by the programs is contributed  by customers through tax-deductible donations. In addition, the companies  make contributions to the programs. Both LG&E and KU have relationships  with local charities, community action groups and government assistance  offices to further help customers.  In Pennsylvania, Operation HELP provides"
"financial aid to PPL Electric  residential customers to help pay energy bills for low-income families with  financial hardships. The program is funded jointly through contributions from  PPL Electric, employees, retirees and customers. Operation HELP also  supports CARES, the Customer Assistance and Referral Evaluation Service  program. CARES is a special referral service for customers with temporary  hardships such as illness, injury, loss of job or high medical bills.  HELPING NEIGHBORS IN"
"NEED  We believe in the power of community and the importance of lending   a helping hand to our neighbors in need.  In addition to the many assistance programs that directly serve the   utilities’ customers, PPL’s affiliated foundations made contributions   to nonprofit partners to further support energy assistance for   neighbors in need.  In Kentucky, the LG&E and KU Foundation provided a $75,000   contribution to support more access to assistance funds for community  members who may be"
"struggling to pay their bills. The PPL Foundation provided $400,000 to support energy assistance  funds in Pennsylvania and Rhode Island. These funds provide a vital  resource for those facing financial hardship, particularly when it comes  to managing energy costs.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 49 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Additionally in Pennsylvania, OnTrack is a special payment plan for   PPL Electric’s low-income"
"customers that offers reduced monthly payments,  debt forgiveness and referrals to other assistance programs. It is funded  through residential customer rates. In Rhode Island, the Good Neighbor Energy Fund provides assistance to  households unable to meet an energy expense due to financial difficulty.  Administered by the United Way of Rhode Island, the program is a   cooperative effort funded by sponsoring energy companies and their   foundations, their employees and other donors. In 2024, the"
"PPL Foundation  provided financial support for the development of the Good Neighbor Energy  Fund in Pennsylvania to provide similar assistance. All of PPL’s utilities support the Low Income Home Energy Assistance  Program (LIHEAP), a federal program that assists eligible low-income  households with their heating and cooling energy costs, bill payment   assistance, energy crisis assistance, weatherization and energy-related  home repairs. In 2024, total LIHEAP assistance for PPL customers was"
"nearly $39 million.  Energy savings  WeCare (Weatherization, Conservation Advice and Recycling Energy) is  designed to create savings through weatherization and energy education to  help LG&E and KU income-eligible customers in need. The onsite Home  Energy Analysis program provides a certified energy analyst to assess a  home’s energy efficiency and identify ways participants can reduce their  energy use. Financial incentives are available to eligible customers who act  to make their homes more"
"energy efficient as a result of the onsite analysis. WRAP – PPL Electric’s Winter Relief Assistance Program – helps   customers with limited incomes reduce their home energy use and   lower their electric bills. WRAP provides energy education and energy-   saving measures for customers, when applicable. All measures and   services are free.  OFFERING CUSTOMERS CONVENIENCE AND CARE  Rhode Island Energy’s Customer Advocate team partners with various  state agencies to host regular Customer"
"Assistance Expos and   Outreach Pop-Ups, answering questions and providing assistance to  customers at various locations throughout the state.  To provide customers with a convenient “one-stop shop” of resources,  the utility partners with CAPP (Community Action Partnership of  Providence County), United Way (211 van), LIHEAP (Low-Income  Home Energy Assistance Program), Green & Healthy Homes Initiative,  Family Services of RI, and RI Food Bank, among others. Among the topics customers can learn"
"about at the expos are: •  Discount rates  •       Payment plans  •        Forgiveness programs  •         Budget and balanced billing  •  Protections  •  HEAP (Home Energy Assistance Program)  •        Energy-efficiency programs  •   Good Neighbor Energy Fund  •    CAP assistance Language assistance Our utilities provide live call translation that allows customer representatives  to conference in a translator for customers who would prefer to conduct  business in their native language instead"
"of English.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 50 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Employee engagement  Our people are working to build the utilities of the future today PPL is powered by more than 6,600 talented, innovative employees, focused  on providing safe, reliable and affordable energy to our customers. PPL, in  turn, is committed to providing employees with an inclusive, healthy and  engaging workplace, rich with"
"opportunities that foster innovation and  personal success.  Fostering an exceptional workplace PPL is committed to fostering an exceptional workplace for employees.   The company enables the success of its current and future workforce by  cultivating a supportive, empowering and collaborative culture, fostering  professional development, encouraging employee engagement, and   ensuring a safe and healthy work environment. Matters related to these  priorities and corporate culture are overseen by"
"PPL's senior management,  which provides updates to PPL's Board of Directors. PPL's investment in the  success of its workforce is embodied in the following areas with   dedicated leadership and board oversight: •      Total rewards – Offers competitive benefits programs to attract and     retain talent and support employees' well-being. PPL offers competitive         vacation time, expanded leave for new parents, retirement programs,     and internal and external development opportunities,"
"including tuition          reimbursement offerings for undergraduate and certain graduate          degrees. The company conducts annual benchmarking of employee           compensation and benefits. •    Safety – Implements programs focused on health and safety,      including emergency preparedness, vehicle safety and accident           prevention. Employees receive safety training and are encouraged to     share, implement and follow best practices. Senior management           receives monthly"
"safety data updates to determine whether additional            safety measures should be implemented. See page 43.  •  Corporate culture – Backed by our SPIRIT values, our culture fosters            a supportive, empowering and collaborative workplace culture in which           employees with various backgrounds can thrive. Senior management        reviews workforce metrics, culture-related objectives and associated            programs semi-annually.  •      Employee engagement – Creates a"
"workplace that fosters an engaged,      high-quality workforce. PPL's operating companies regularly conduct     assessments related to employee engagement, safety and culture.  •      Professional development – Invests in the current and future workforce          through training and development, succession planning and creation of a         pipeline for internal advancement.  •   Compliance – Conducts quarterly discussions on metrics and other        matters related to corporate compliance and"
"ethics. Among the items     discussed are statistics regarding Ethics Helpline reports and employee         concerns. REPRESENTATION IN LEADERSHIP  38% Women in Leadership   14% Ethnically and Racially   Diverse Leadership   Number of Employees Women Ethnically and  Racially Diverse  LG&E-KU 2,650 629 274 PPL Electric 1,393 318 145 PPL Services 1,340 521 282 RIE 1,270 281 182 TOTAL 6,653 1,749 883  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 51 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL"
"GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX From digital technology professionals to skilled trade workers and many roles  in between, our employees are creating the utilities of the future today.  Our customer-first, people driven, and technology-enabled strategy requires  a workforce development strategy that maintains legacy knowledge while  focusing on future talent needs.  PPL’s workforce planning strategy enables the company to:  •         Forecast ebbs and flows in workforce requirements.  •"
"Determine the size and type of workforce required for future   business success. •      Identify and address talent gaps and plan for future talent needs.  •   Develop plans, sourcing strategies and tactics. Workforce planning results are integrated into the business planning   process. Matters related to corporate culture are overseen by PPL’s senior  management, which provides updates to the PPL Board of Directors.  To attract top talent, generate awareness of careers in energy and foster a"
"love of STEM subjects (science, technology, engineering and math) among  students, PPL’s operating companies participate in learning opportunities for  students of all ages and support strong internship and co-op programs that  engage students in career-specific work experience, informational interviews,  fun activities, community service opportunities and networking with   employees at all levels. With nearly 200 interns annually, many of whom   are hired into full-time positions, the program"
"provides a pipeline of skilled  workers in a variety of fields.  PPL participates in many outreach activities such as career fairs, leadership  conferences, university leadership summits, mock interviews, resume  reviews, panel discussions, career bootcamps, networking and affinity   group sponsorships that are all part of our ongoing efforts to maintain   PPL’s position as an employer of choice. All hiring and promotion decisions  are based on merit. Workforce development  ~15% Under 30   ~56%"
"30-50 ~30% Over 50   8.3% Turnover rate   91.7% Retention rate 28.9% Internal hiring rate 2024 EMPLOYEE DATA  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 52 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Training and development PPL is committed to creating a workplace atmosphere that rewards   performance and encourages professional development. Beyond   occupational training, the company offers:   •    Craftworker and lineworker development programs.  •"
"Tuition reimbursement for undergraduate and graduate degrees. •         Leadership development programs.  •     Personal skills and management training courses. •      Mentoring programs.    Craft trade apprentice and trainee programs PPL is taking a proactive approach to expanding the talent pool for positions  that will be available in the next several years due to retirements. In addition to college co-op programs, our operating companies have various  apprenticeship programs for lineworkers"
"and electricians as well as craft  workers in generation and natural gas operations. With the average apprentice program taking more than four years to   complete, this is a long-term investment in the future workforce of the   company.  Students are provided real-world work experience, chances to learn about  different areas of the business, and networking opportunities with employees  at all levels of the organization. Many students are able to gain hands-on knowledge about the various  career"
"paths that utilities offer while they obtain the degrees that are required  for some craft worker positions.  We partner with community and technical colleges throughout our service  territories in Kentucky, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island to recruit top student  talent. Additionally, we work with many lineworker training schools to recruit  trainees, including the Southeast Lineman Training Center.    267,000 Total training hours   40 Average training hours   per employee 2,800 Number of training"
"courses   offered annually to employees $1.1M Continuing education   contributions  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 53 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Human Rights  PPL is committed to operating in ways that help promote, protect and support  human rights in our workforce and the communities in which we do business.  Beyond complying with federal, state and local laws and regulations   applicable to human rights, PPL’s Standards of"
"Integrity and Supplier Code  of Conduct provide a framework for operations that reflect these values and  principles, not only for our own operating companies but for vendors and  suppliers as well. The full human rights policy statement is available online.  Training on the Standards of Integrity is conducted annually to ensure   every employee understands the company’s commitment to and respect for  human rights.  PPL engages an independent, third-party vendor to operate our   EthicsHelpline,"
"which is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, via  phone or online. Employees, suppliers, customers and other stakeholders  can report a human rights or ethical concern through the EthicsHelpline,  which provides anonymity, or directly to the company. Collective bargaining and freedom of association PPL supports our employees’ right to freedom of association as well as   the right to form or join a union, bargain collectively and engage in union  activities. With 37% of PPL’s workforce"
"represented by labor unions, the  company’s operating utilities collaborate with union leadership to enhance  workplace safety, meet the growing expectations of our customers, and   adapt to the challenges of rapidly changing technologies.  Among other things, employees are encouraged to participate in health and  safety groups such as the safety advocate program and to join one or more  business resource groups, which are employee-driven organizations formed  around common experiences and"
"perspectives.  Bargaining unit employees have access to a grievance procedure for   internal dispute resolution. The grievance procedure promotes a prompt and  responsible conclusion of issues raised by bargaining unit employees.  Veterans represent about 5% of the company's workforce. Military veterans  PPL’s operating companies have earned a trusted reputation among the  military community as preferred employers. In addition to supporting time off for active duty and for periodic military"
"training, the company also supports employees who are members of a  military reserve organization in the following ways:  •   Pays the difference between the regular pay they would have received,   if they had worked, and their government pay for up to two years for  eligible employees. •     Provides benefits continuation for up to two years. •   Provides additional time off to take care of personal affairs, if necessary,  before reporting for duty. •      Implements retroactively any step and"
"merit increases that were deferred  during the leave of absence.  Business resource groups PPL empowers our employees to form and participate in business resource  groups to foster an inclusive environment and provide an opportunity for  employees with common experiences and perspectives to network and  engage in mentorship programs, and gather for social and cultural events.  Members are actively involved in various programs that directly impact  business objectives like recruitment, employee"
"retention and innovation.    PPL's business resource groups are open to all employees.   PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 54 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Support for our employees  In 2024, PPL conducted a company-wide employee engagement survey to measure employee satisfaction and gauge opportunities for improvement. More   than 81% of employees participated. Strengths include a workplace culture that values safety, health,"
"wellness, integrity and positive manager relationships.    Workplace well-being, rewards and recognition, and employee engagement are areas of opportunity that will be a focus of 2025 action planning across PPL. We are committed to providing a supportive workplace for all employees. In addition to challenging, rewarding careers and competitive salaries, PPL offers   comprehensive health and wellness benefits and a total rewards package that supports and promotes work-life balance. Benefits •"
"Medical, dental and vision coverage at date of hire. •  Paid vacation, sick leave and holidays, in addition to flexible and   hybrid schedules for certain positions. •         Family-friendly parental and caregiver leave, including up to six   weeks of paid parental leave for eligible employees. •      Adoption and fertility reimbursement to help cover the costs of   growing a family.  •  A comprehensive retirement program.  •  401(k) plan that provides employer match and employer"
"contributions (if eligible). •  Health care and dependent care reimbursement accounts. •        Health Savings Account (HSA) with employer contribution. •      Internal and external development opportunities, including tuition   reimbursement offerings for undergraduate and/or graduate degrees. •       Basic life and supplemental employee and dependent life insurance. •    Long-term disability coverage. •        Lifestyle perks and discounts. Health and Wellness •    Employee Assistance Program"
"including virtual and in-person   mental health support services.  •        Licensed clinical social worker for in-person and virtual visits. •     Tele-health medical services and physical therapy. •    Onsite primary care for many of our employees. •        Coaching/registered dietitian services.  •      Chronic disease care, including Diabetes Management program. •  Tobacco cessation.  •   Maternal health programs. •     Musculoskeletal program. •      Financial wellness resources.  •"
"Healthy for Life wellness portal.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 55 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX GOVERNANCE &  MANAGEMENT  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 56 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Governance structure and practices  An engaged, experienced and qualified board aligned with and responsive   to shareowner interests ensures we continue to deliver safe,"
"reliable,   affordable and sustainable energy for our customers and long-term value   for our shareowners.   PPL’s Board of Directors is committed to its role in exercising independent  oversight of the company’s business strategies and risk management.   The board’s responsibilities include overseeing the company’s long-term  strategy and execution; risk management policies and practices; selecting  the company’s leaders and advising senior management.  The board’s oversight also includes"
"reviewing senior management’s   approach to environmental, social and governance performance. The board  has designated its Governance, Nominating and Sustainability Committee  (GNSC) as the body responsible for overseeing PPL’s sustainability strategy.  The board stays informed on these matters through regular updates from  subject matter experts.  When considering board composition and nominees for director, the GNSC  considers skills, expertise, background, professional experience, education"
"and other individual characteristics, as well as a variety of attributes that  contribute to the board’s collective strength. Two of the board’s four   independent committees are led by women.  More information on our directors and board structure is provided on the  governance section of the company’s website, along with PPL’s annual proxy  statement and Guidelines for Corporate Governance. Additional details about  the role of the board, independence of the directors, role of the independent"
"directors (including the independent chair), and selection of directors can be  found in the Guidelines for Corporate Governance.  Ensuring transparency, accountability  and ethical stewardship BOARD COMPOSITION 40% Percentage of women   on Board of Directors 50% Independent board   committees chaired by women 30% Percentage of ethnic and racial  diversity on Board of Directors 9 Directors   are independent Based on 10 directors as of December 2024 AVERAGE TENURE: 9.6 YEARS  4 0-5 years   2 6-11"
"years 4 >12 years An engaged, experienced and qualified board  Core skills:  •     Capital Markets, Finance and Accounting  •      Customer Relationships and Marketing •  Cybersecurity  •        Environment and Sustainability  •       Operations Experience and Safety  •     Regulated Industry/Regulated Utility Experience  •      Technology, Digitalization and Innovation •     Risk Management  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 57 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL"
"GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Responsible Compensation The board is committed to responsible compensation programs that support the company’s strategy, culture and values over the long term. Incentive   compensation for executives and employees is based on performance against financial and nonfinancial goals set by the Board of Directors through its People   and Compensation Committee. Each year, the board and executive management team evaluate the company’s strategy and, together with the"
"advice of an  independent compensation consultant, refine performance goals and priorities to help ensure long-term benefit to our shareowners. DIRECTOR COMPENSATION  The board believes that to continue to   attract talent to the board, outside directors  should be remunerated for their services   at a level competitive with that provided by  other comparable publicly traded   corporations. Directors who are company  employees (currently only PPL’s chief   executive officer) do not receive any"
"separate compensation for service on the  board of directors or its committees.   Information regarding compensation of   PPL’s directors can be found in the 2025  Proxy Statement, beginning on page 30. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  The board has taken steps to further   align with shareowners’ interests including   a long-term sustainability component   to the long-term incentives of   the executive compensation program.  Information regarding PPL’s executive  compensation program and compensation"
"philosophy and objectives, as well as a  discussion of how executive compensation  decisions affecting our named executive  officers were made for 2024, are included in  the “Compensation Discussion and   Analysis” section of the 2025 Proxy   Statement. Additional details about specific  compensation of the named executive  officers are included in the 2025 Proxy  Statement, beginning on page 36. NON-EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION PPL provides variable compensation   for non-executive employees,"
"including  short-term incentives, long-term incentives  and variable pay, such as bonuses,   based on individual performance, company  financial performance and the company’s  attainment of operational goals. All eligible  employees receive an evaluation of their  skills and performance on an annual   basis, helping to strengthen the   connection between pay and performance.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 58 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE &"
"MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Financial performance 2024 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS For the years ended December 31 FINANCIAL 2024 2023 Operating revenues (millions) $8,462 $8,312 Net income (millions)  $888 $740 Earnings from ongoing operations (millions) (a) $1,250 $1,183 Total assets (millions)  $41,069 $39,236 Earnings per share - Diluted $1.20 $1.00 Earnings from ongoing operations per share – Diluted (a) $1.69 $1.60 Book value per share (b) $19.07 $18.90 Market price per share  $32.46 $27.10 Market"
"price/book value ratio 170% 143% OPERATING – ELECTRICITY SALES (GWh) (c) Retail delivered 66,103 63,982 Wholesale supplied (d) 617 531 (a)  Management utilizes “Earnings from Ongoing Operations” or “Ongoing Earnings” as a non-GAAP financial measure that should not be considered as an alternative to reported earnings, or net income,   an indicator of operating performance determined in accordance with GAAP. PPL believes that Earnings from Ongoing Operations is useful and meaningful to investors"
"because it provides management’s   view of PPL’s earnings performance as another criterion in making investment decisions. In addition, PPL’s management uses Earnings from Ongoing Operations in measuring achievement of certain   corporate performance goals, including targets for certain executive incentive compensation. Other companies may use different measures to present financial performance. Earnings from Ongoing   Operations is adjusted for the impact of special items. Special items are"
"presented in the financial tables on an after-tax basis with the related income taxes on special items separately disclosed. Income   taxes on special items, when applicable, are calculated based on the statutory tax rate of the entity where the activity is recorded.  (b)        Based on 738,033 and 737,130 shares of common stock outstanding (in thousands) at December 31, 2024, and December 31, 2023.  (c)        Excludes the Rhode Island Regulated segment electricity sales as revenues are"
"decoupled from volumes delivered. (d)     Represents FERC-regulated municipal and unregulated off-system sales.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 59 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Enterprise Risk Management PPL maintains a robust enterprise risk management process that provides a  business portfolio view of material risks that may impact the achievement of  PPL’s business strategy. As part of the enterprise risk management process,"
"representatives from PPL’s operating companies and service groups identify,  assess, monitor and report ongoing and emerging risks, including climate-  related and broader environmental, social and governance risks. The   company’s Risk Management group oversees this process, reviews it with  company executive leadership and reports quarterly to the Audit Committee  of the Board of Directors.  Business Continuity and Crisis Response Planning  PPL has a Corporate Crisis Plan to ensure the company"
"is prepared to  respond quickly in the event of a corporate-level crisis; to protect the public,  environment, employees, facilities and operations; to mitigate impacts; to  define roles for response and recovery; and to establish internal and external  communications protocols.  The plan establishes the PPL Executive Crisis Team, which sets policy,  directs crisis preparedness by the company’s various business lines and  operations, assesses and directs the provision of corporate-level"
"resources  and coordinates activities with regional company locations in the event of a  major crisis. The standing members of the Executive Crisis Team are the president   and chief executive officer; the chief legal officer; the chief financial officer;  the chief human resources officer; the chief technology and innovation  officer; the chief operating officer; the chief security officer; the vice   president-Public Affairs and Sustainability; operating company presidents;  the vice"
"president-Corporate Communications; and the senior director and  chief physical security officer. Additional members can be added to the  Executive Crisis Team as needed, depending on the situation. The team maintains various crisis planning scenarios and robust notification  tools and procedures. In addition, it conducts periodic plan exercises, refining  protocols after each event. EMERGENCY PLANNING   IS PUT TO TEST DURING WILDFIRE Being prepared to respond to emergencies at a moment’s notice"
"is a  hallmark of the electric utility industry. This is evident in our company's  response to severe storms and other emergencies.  When a brush fire unrelated to any PPL equipment or facilities ignited on  the afternoon of Saturday, Nov. 2, on Blue Mountain in Lehigh Township,  PPL Electric’s incident command immediately responded in accordance  with its wildfire mitigation plan. While there was no imminent danger   to PPL Electric equipment or facilities, we maintained a 24/7 incident"
"command presence with emergency management officials. Crews were  available at all times to assist with any switching, leadership was on site at  incident command and meetings were held twice daily to keep a  cross-functional team updated on relevant developments. When emergency response personnel requested a service interruption for  nine customers so they could safely work to contain the fire, PPL Electric  maintained clear communication with affected customers. Once it was  safe to do so,"
"service was restored later that evening. These quick and effective actions are a direct result of careful   emergency planning and testing those plans repeatedly. PPL Electric  completed its wildfire emergency response plan and held a   company-wide drill in the summer. While wildfire risks are generally low  across most of the areas we serve, we take nothing for granted and   implemented wildfire mitigation plans at all of our utilities.   PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 60 INTRODUCTION"
"SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Cybersecurity and grid protection The physical and cybersecurity of the electric grid and natural gas systems   is critical to reliably meet the nation’s energy needs and preserve national  security. PPL’s strategy for managing cyber-related risks is risk-based and, where  appropriate, integrated within PPL’s enterprise risk management processes.  PPL’s chief security officer, who reports directly to the chief"
"technology and  innovation officer, is responsible for establishing, implementing and executing  PPL’s cyber-risk management strategy and program, which includes   governance processes for the oversight of cybersecurity risk management.  These governance processes include quarterly corporate leadership council  reviews of key initiatives, cyber risk metrics and potential threats.  Cybersecurity and the effectiveness of PPL’s cybersecurity strategy are  integral and regular topics of discussion"
"at board meetings.  PPL’s cybersecurity strategy includes:  •     Actively monitoring company systems. •  Regularly reviewing and updating security standards, policies and  procedures based on the threat landscape and industry best practices. •      Conducting incident response and tabletop exercises for cyber resiliency.  •    Security awareness and training to improve user behavior and security  hygiene, including ethical phishing campaigns.  •        Leveraging industry-leading experts to"
"perform risk assessments to learn  and improve our protective measures and safeguards.  •        Routinely participating in industry-wide programs to further information  sharing, intelligence gathering and unity of effort in mitigating and  responding to potential or actual attacks. •   Conducting quarterly Corporate Security Council meetings to review and  understand risks and direct actions to continually improve PPL’s security  posture and mitigate cyber risks. Our cybersecurity strategy is"
"aligned with and informed by the following:  •       Electricity Information Sharing and Analysis Center.  •         Cybersecurity Risk Information Sharing Program. •       Electricity Sub-Sector Coordinating Council. •  Edison Electric Institute’s cybersecurity and resiliency efforts. •     Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.  •        North American Electric Reliability Corporation. •      Transportation Safety Administration Security Directives for Gas   Operations. •        National"
"Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity   Framework.  •    Department of Homeland Security Cybersecurity Infrastructure Security  Agency. Our workforce serves as an essential line of defense for the protection of our  systems and assets. Maintaining a culture of security is one way to help us  prepare for and be able to detect and respond to cyberattacks.  We reinforce a culture of security by conducting annual security awareness  training, maintaining a progressive ethical phishing"
"program to educate   and test our employees’ ability to spot and report malicious emails, and  conducting incident response exercises with senior leadership and their  supporting staffs to better prepare ourselves should PPL be impacted by a  significant cyberattack.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 61 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Data protection and privacy  Our companies take privacy and protection of customer information"
"seriously  and have rigorous controls in place to protect customer information and  properly regulate its use.  •  Information collected is limited to what is necessary to provide   requested services. •        Only authorized employees and organizations hired to provide services  have access to customer information, and access is limited to what is  needed for their respective roles. •      Our systems are routinely monitored for security and vulnerabilities to  safeguard information, including"
"customer data.  •     Employees and contractors are required to take annual security   awareness training (information protection is one of many topics covered  by the training), which includes guidelines for protecting customer  information. •  Contractors performing work on our companies’ behalf must confirm   they understand and agree to abide by their obligations to protect   PPL information. •     Customer information is never shared without permission, unless   required by law. •    We"
"comply with all laws regarding the safeguarding of the personally  identifiable information of our customers. Physical resiliency  A reliable and secure power grid is built to withstand and recover quickly   from disruptions.  We have made – and continue to make – significant investments to strength- en our security protections and enhance grid reliability and resiliency.  Continuous evaluation of risks and threats through collaboration with industry  partners as well as with federal, state and"
"local officials help develop the  strategy deployed to protect our assets.  Our implementation of “defense in depth” and layered protection strategies  helps PPL develop a secure and robust approach to deter, delay, detect,  deny, respond to and recover from risks and threats to the organization and  our assets.  Crisis management plans are also critical to resiliency and timely restoration  of service. Testing those plans regularly is essential. PPL conducts a variety  of exercises and drills"
"to help test our incident protocols and critical functions  and identify areas for improvement, including NERC’s biennial GridEx that  simulates both physical and cyber-attack scenarios.  Additionally, PPL invests in new power lines, substations and smart   technologies to continue to strengthen the resiliency of the power grid.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 62 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX PPL’s Supply Chain organization"
"negotiates and secures contracts to   procure materials, labor and services necessary to support the business and  infrastructure investment. Our ongoing partnerships with a broad coalition of  suppliers ensures we are able to get the right product and service, at the  right time, at the right price. PPL’s operating companies require suppliers to observe our high standards  of business ethics and professional and personal integrity when bidding or  providing materials or services to PPL.  The"
"company’s enterprise-wide Supplier Code of Conduct, which applies to  anyone supplying goods or services to PPL, includes guidelines on a variety  of topics including corruption, ethics and cybersecurity. We also expect our  suppliers to extend these standards to their own supply chains with respect  to goods and services provided to us.  Accordingly, PPL reviews the safety and environmental performance of its  business partners and incorporates compliance requirements in purchase  orders and"
"contracts. PPL is a member of the Sustainable Supply Chain Alliance (SSCA),   an organization of utilities and suppliers working together to advance   sustainability best practices in utility supply chain activities and supplier  networks. We utilize SSCA’s sustainability project supplier survey to gather  data from our suppliers. To expand and fortify our diversified network of qualified suppliers and  vendors, PPL and its operating companies host and participate in supplier  networking events"
"and serve as active members of various business   development councils.  Supply chain management $3.7 billion Total corporate spend   on goods and services  $1.5 billion  Total corporate spend on   locally based suppliers  $399 million  Total corporate   spend on diverse suppliers  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 63 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Ethics and compliance To fulfill our obligation to shareowners and all others who"
"have a stake in PPL’s business and the communities we serve, we (and our contractors) must adhere to  high ethical standards, work safely and responsibly, and comply with both the spirit and the letter of all laws and regulations that govern our business. We recog- nize that to do otherwise would be costly to our company – not just financially, but also in terms of the strong reputation built by generations of PPL employees.  PPL has established a compliance and ethics program that is founded"
"upon PPL’s Standards of Integrity. The Standards of Integrity, along with our Vision and  Values, define the way that we conduct our business. They apply in all situations, at all times, guiding the decisions we make and the actions we take.  COMPLIANCE AND ETHICS GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE, BOARD OF DIRECTORS Provides high-level oversight of the compliance and ethics program, which applies to PPL and all of its subsidiaries. VICE PRESIDENT-CORPORATE AUDIT AND CHIEF COMPLIANCE OFFICER  Has"
"overall responsibility for PPL’s compliance and ethics program and chairs the Corporate Compliance Committee. CORPORATE COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Serves as an integral part of PPL’s enterprise-wide compliance and ethics governance structure and a key component of the compliance and ethics program. COMPLIANCE WORKING GROUP  Identifies, evaluates and assesses existing and emerging   compliance risks and potential issues with existing programs. INVESTIGATION WORKING GROUP Reviews investigation reports"
"of all significant investigations by PPL and its subsidiaries. The group’s membership  consists of key personnel representing the compliance, audit, human resources and legal functions.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 64 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Working with integrity PPL is committed to strong governance practices and high ethical standards.  Directors and all PPL officers are always expected to act ethically and adhere"
"to the policies set forth in the Standards of Integrity. Every member of the  Board of Directors receives a copy of the Standards of Integrity. It is the  responsibility of each director to advise the corporate secretary of any actual  or potential conflict of interest, and any affiliation with public or privately held  enterprises, including for-profit and nonprofit entities that may create a  potential conflict of interest to the company or inconsistency with applicable  laws, company policies"
"or values. Every employee is expected to read, understand and comply with the   Standards of Integrity and associated company policies. In addition,   employees are expected to report any compliance or ethics concerns to their  immediate supervisors or via another appropriate reporting mechanism,  including anonymous reporting mechanisms that are available and publicized  to employees. PPL takes any instance of noncompliance seriously. Failure to  obey laws and regulations or violations of"
"company policies may result in  employee discipline to the extent permissible under applicable law, up to and  including termination. Employees receive annual training on the Standards of Integrity. As part   of the training, every employee is required to certify that he or she   understands the expectation to report misconduct and understands that   PPL will not tolerate any form of retaliation for any report made in good faith.  All training is tracked, recorded and reported to executive"
"leadership.   Targeted communications on key compliance and ethics topics are also  issued as needed. Reporting and Handling of Violations Employees are expected to ask questions or raise concerns about the  application or interpretation of the Standards of Integrity. The company does not discriminate against or tolerate any form of   retaliation toward employees who ask questions or raise concerns in good  faith, and provides an “EthicsHelpline” for confidential and, if desired,   anonymous"
"reporting of concerns. PPL’s EthicsHelpline toll-free phone  number and internet site are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.  The EthicsHelpline, which is managed by an external vendor to promote  confidence in confidentiality, is also accessible on the internet. In addition   to employees, suppliers, customers and other external parties can use the  EthicsHelpline to report concerns. Guidelines are in place for promptly responding to allegations of misconduct  and include notifying"
"the vice president and chief compliance officer of the  allegations. Issues and trends are identified and reported to the Audit   Committee of the Board of Directors. Allegations are handled and reported to  the Audit Committee each quarter, with the most serious allegations being  reported on an expedited basis to the chair of the Audit Committee as soon  as reasonably practicable after initial intake discussions.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 65 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY &"
"ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Public Policy Engagement Laws and policies enacted at the federal, state and local levels can have a  significant impact on PPL and our customers, employees and shareowners.  PPL actively encourages public policy that furthers our ability to provide  energy safely, reliably, affordably and sustainably for our customers and  communities, and supports our growth and innovation in ways that benefit  our company and our stakeholders.  Our active"
"participation in the public policy arena helps to ensure that public  officials are kept informed of key issues that affect the interests of our  stakeholders.  PPL’s Public Affairs department is in regular communication with executive  leadership and provides an annual report to the board on key issues and  advocacy positions, with periodic updates as key issues arise. Additionally,  on an annual basis, the board’s Governance, Nominating and Sustainability  Committee receives a report of"
"corporate political contributions. It is our goal to avoid even the appearance of improperly influencing others.  We offer no gifts or entertainment to government employees within or outside  the United States without approval from a company attorney. We comply with  applicable laws and several PPL policies guide our actions related to   political activities, public officials interactions and anti-bribery/anti-corruption  practices. Details regarding PPL’s approach to public policy engagement,"
"including compliance, trade association membership, political action   committees and contributions to certain tax-exempt organizations are   available on the company’s website.  The company’s transparent reporting and oversight has earned a top ranking  as a trendsetter by the CPA-Zicklin Index, which benchmarks the political  disclosure and accountability policies and practices of leading U.S. public  companies.  97.1  (OUT OF 100) Ranking as Trendsetter in Political Disclosure   and"
"Accountability by the CPA-Zicklin Index  $1.5M Total spent on corporate political activity  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 66 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Affordability  PPL advocates for federal resources like the Low-Income Home Energy  Assistance Program (LIHEAP) to support customers in need. In addition to  direct bill assistance, we support energy efficiency, weatherization and other  programs to help reduce energy use and"
"lower costs. These efforts aim to  provide customers with a range of options to manage their energy expenses. Resource Adequacy  Ensuring that there is sufficient electricity generation to meet rising   demand is key to providing our customers with access to safe, reliable and  reasonably priced electricity. With electrification and data centers projected   to drive significant increases in demand, with additional and substantial  power plant retirements forecast, and with market forces failing"
"to bring new  generation capacity online fast enough, PPL supports policies that will  meaningfully address resource adequacy issues and allow regulated electric  utilities to invest in generation resources, up to and including owning and  operating generation resources again. Federal Energy Tax Credits  PPL is committed to advocating for the preservation or modification of federal  tax credits that enhance energy security and sustainability. We support  credits that directly benefit our"
"customers by improving grid reliability and  keeping energy costs as low as possible. A strategic approach to these  credits will ensure continued support for vital projects that benefit both our  customers and the environment. Pro-Investment  PPL supports policies that promote a healthy business environment,   including tax policies that consider the unique utility business model.   Stable federal tax policies help us maintain financial strength, invest in grid  modernization and keep customer"
"rates predictable. Pro-growth policies   also foster economic development and attract businesses, supporting the  prosperity of the communities we serve. Environmental Regulations  PPL supports environmental regulations that balance energy reliability,  affordability and sustainability. We advocate for policies that allow for   effective management of our resource portfolio and consider technological,  economic and regulatory dynamics. The right policies will enable PPL to  continue providing"
"reliable, affordable energy in a sustainable manner.  Innovation  PPL actively invests in research and development and advocates for   strong federal support for emerging energy technologies. We partner with   the Department of Energy and research organizations to advance next-  generation energy solutions. Increased R&D funding for nuclear, carbon  capture and long-duration storage is critical for meeting future energy   demands and improving resource adequacy. Natural Gas  Natural gas is vital"
"for grid reliability and meeting growing electricity demand,  especially as we integrate more renewable energy. It offers lower carbon  emissions and can optimize intermittent renewables, supporting grid stability  and flexibility. PPL advocates for policies that ensure natural gas remains a  reliable, scalable energy source for the future. Legislative and Policy Priorities PPL actively monitors and engages in a broad array of federal and state policy issues that could impact our customers,"
"employees and shareowners.    PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 67 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Permitting and Siting Reform  PPL supports policies that streamline permitting and siting processes while  ensuring strong environmental protections. Efficient federal permitting is  essential to accelerate infrastructure development and enhance grid security.  These reforms will help deliver the diverse energy resources needed for a"
"sustainable future. Physical Security and Cybersecurity  PPL supports risk-based rules that balance security, efficiency and   customer costs while enabling new grid technologies. We advocate for a  government-industry partnership to improve resilience against evolving  physical and cybersecurity threats. Effective protection of the energy grid is  essential for the safety and reliability of the energy system. Grid Resilience  Reliable, resilient energy networks are essential to withstand"
"extreme  weather, ensure affordability and meet customer needs. PPL supports federal  policies that incentivize infrastructure investments and drive innovation to  build a future-ready energy system.  Pipeline Safety  PPL advocates for clear, achievable rules that allow pipeline operators to  safely maintain natural gas infrastructure. Safe and reliable pipeline   operations are crucial for meeting energy demands and ensuring service to  our customers. These regulations should promote both"
"safety and efficiency  in natural gas transportation. Transmission  PPL works with FERC to promote efficient transmission planning,   interconnection processes and regional expansion. We support policies that  consider regional differences and ensure continued grid reliability. Ensuring  efficient and reliable transmission infrastructure is key to meeting future  energy needs. Supply Chain  Inability to procure critical grid components, such as transformers and   natural gas turbines cold impact"
"grid security and infrastructure development.  These challenges may delay timely investments in grid modernization and  expansion, hindering our ability to meet growing energy demand. PPL  advocates for federal policies that strengthen domestic supply chains,  ensuring the reliable and efficient development of energy infrastructure.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 68 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX APPENDIX  PPL 2024"
"SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 69 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX PPL’s annual sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with the following voluntary frameworks and initiatives: the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Universal Standards, including electric  utility sector specific indicators; the EEI-AGA Sustainability Template;  the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Universal Standards, including electric utility sector"
"specific indicators, the Sustainability  Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standard for electric and gas utilities and the Task Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD), the CDP Questionnaire and the United Nations  Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs). These disclosures are meant to assist our investors, customers, business partners and other stakeholders in obtaining standardized disclosures. Unless  otherwise noted, this document covers all of PPL Corporation (NYSE: PPL) and"
"its subsidiaries, and all quantitative data covers the period from January 1 to December 31, 2024. (links to each  disclosure will be added once formatted) Global Reporting Initiative - Universal Standards  GRI STANDARD #  STANDARD DESCRIPTION  PPL RESPONSE  2-1 Organizational details  PPL at a glance Our companies  Performance data  2-2 Entities included in the organization’s sustainability reporting Our companies  2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point PPL’s 2024 Corporate"
"Sustainability Report is developed on an annual basis for calendar year 2024 and  was published April 2025. Any questions regarding the report can be directed to community@pplweb.com. 2-4 Restatements of information PPL had no significant restatements to report in 2024. 2-5 External Assurance External assurances for this report have not been conducted. 2-6 Activities, value chain, and other business relationships PPL at a glance Our companies  Supply chain management  2-7 Employees Our employees"
"2-8 Workers who are not employees PPL does not disclose data on contracted employees.  2-9 Governance structure and composition Corporate Governance Structure 2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body 2025 Proxy Statement pages 26-27  2-11 Chair of highest governance body 2025 Proxy Statement page 19 2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the man- agement of impacts Governance and management  2-13 Delegation of the responsibility for managing impacts Governance"
"and management  2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting Governance and management Sustainability governance  2-15 Conflicts of interest PPL Corporation’s Independence Guidelines  Voluntary Disclosure Index   PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 70 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX GRI STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION  PPL RESPONSE  2-16 Communication of critical concerns Anyone wishing to make their concern"
"known to PPL's board, its independent chair, any board  member, or the independent directors as a group, may do so by writing to such person or persons in  care of the Corporate Secretary's Office at PPL Corporation, 645 Hamilton Street, Allentown, PA  18101. 2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body Board Composition  2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body 2025 Proxy Statement pages 19-20 2-19 Renumeration policies 2025 Proxy Statement page 25 2-20"
"Process to determine remuneration 2025 Proxy Statement page 25 2-21 Annual total compensation ratio 2025 Proxy Statement page 78 2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy Our sustainability strategy  2-23 Policy commitments Legislative and policy positions  2-25 Process to remediate negative impacts Ethics and compliance  2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns Ethics and compliance  2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations Ethics and compliance  2-28 Membership"
"associations Public policy engagement 2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement   Energy equity, environmental justice and a just transition 2-30 Collective bargaining agreements Collective bargaining  Disclosure on material topics  Our sustainability priorities 3-1 Process to determine material topics Our sustainability priorities 3-2 List of material topics Our sustainability priorities 3-3 Management of material topics Sustainability governance  201-1 Direct economic"
"value  2024 Form 10-K 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the  organization’s activities due to climate change Risks and opportunities  201-3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 2024 Form 10-K 202-1 Ratios of standard entry-level wage by gender compared to local  minimum wage  PPL’s companies seek to provide work hours, wages and benefits in compliance with all applicable  laws, including regulations related to stable scheduling and work"
"hours. 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community Hiring and promotion is based on merit, not whether a candidate is from a particular locality.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 71 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX GRI STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION  PPL RESPONSE  203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Grid modernization Research and development 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts"
"Economic development  Customer assistance  Charitable giving  204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Supply chain management  205-1 Operations assessed for risks relate to corruption All business units are subject to anti-corruption risks analysis. 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and   procedures All employees receive regular anti-corruption training as well as training on a variety of important  policies and procedures. PPL’s Standards of Integrity, which"
"highlights certain key policies and  procedures, can be accessed online at any time. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken PPL does not publicly disclose this information. 206-1 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust  and monopoly practices and their outcomes. PPL does not publicly disclose this information. 207-1 Approach to tax Taxes are discussed throughout the 2024 Form 10-K. See note 6 beginning on page 115.  207-2 Tax governance, control"
"and risk management  Taxes are discussed throughout the 2024 Form 10-K. See note 6 beginning on page 115. 207-3 Stakeholder engagement and management of concerns related to tax Taxes are discussed throughout the 2024 Form 10-K.  See Note 6 beginning on page 115. 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Fuel consumption  Waste management  Water use and management  301-2 Recycled input material used We continue to investigate opportunities to incorporate recycled fuels in our operations. 302-1"
"Energy consumption within the organization Energy consumption and output  302-2 Energy consumption outside the organization Energy consumption and output 302-3 Energy intensity Carbon intensity  302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Energy efficiency 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Energy efficiency  303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Water use and management  303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Water use and management  303-3"
"Water withdrawal Water use and management   PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 72 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX GRI STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION  PPL RESPONSE  303-4 Water discharge Water use and management  303-5 Water consumption Water use and management  304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in or adjacent to protected  areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Biodiversity  304-2 Significant"
"impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity  Biodiversity  304-3 Habitats protected or restored Biodiversity  304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation lists species with  habitats in areas affected by operations Biodiversity  305-1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Net-zero goal related emissions  305-2 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Net-zero goal related emissions  305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3)"
"Net-zero goal related emissions Other CO2e Emissions   305-4 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Carbon intensity  305-5 Reduction of greenhouse (GHG) emissions Net-zero goal related emissions  Enabling clean energy resources 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) This is not material to PPL. 305-7 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Air emissions 306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts Waste management  306-2 Management of significant waste-"
"related impacts Waste management 306-3 Waste generated Waste management 306-4 Waste diverted from disposal Waste management 306-5 Waste directed to disposal Waste management 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Supplier Code of Conduct 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and   actions taken Supplier Code of Conduct 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Workforce planning  401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not"
"provided to  temporary or part-time employees Benefits   PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 73 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX GRI STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION  PPL RESPONSE  401-3 Parental leave PPL offers family-friendly parental and caregiver leave, including financial assistance for adoption and  more flexibility with sick time, allowing employees to tend to family members or aging parents if the  need arises. Eligible"
"employees can take up to six consecutive weeks of paid leave following the birth  or adoption of a child. In 2024, a total of 30 women and 171 men used parental leave. A total of 195  employees returned to work, resulting in a 97% retention rate. 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Notice periods vary by collective bargaining agreement. We comply with applicable laws, regulations  and collective bargaining agreements. 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system"
"Safety programs 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation Safety  403-3 Occupational health services Safety  403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupation- al health and safety Safety programs  403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Safety programs  403-6 Promotion of worker health Safety  403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts  directly linked by business relationships Safety  403-8"
"Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management  system Safety  403-9 Work-related injuries Safety  403-10 Work-related ill health Safety  404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee  Training and development  404-2 Programs for upgrading skills and transition assistance programs Training and development  404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career  development reviews PPL’s expectations are that all eligible employees receive an evaluation of"
"their skills and perfor- mance on an annual basis. The company’s business units have formal performance appraisal  processes that cover 100% of eligible active, full-time and part-time employees.  405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Board composition  Our employees  407-1 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to freedom of  association and collective bargaining may be at risk No risks to, or violations of, the right to freedom of association or the right to form"
"or join a union,  bargain collectively, or engage in union activities were identified.  Nearly half of PPL’s workforce is  represented by a labor union and the company’s operating utilities collaborate with union leadership  to enhance workplace safety, meet the growing expectations of our customers, and adapt to the  challenges of rapidly changing technologies.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 74 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX"
"GRI STANDARD # STANDARD DESCRIPTION  PPL RESPONSE  408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor None. We comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations wherever we operate. 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or  compulsory labor None. We comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations wherever we operate. 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures All domestic Corporate Security"
"personnel complete corporate standards of integrity training on an  annual basis. Additionally, all domestic Corporate Security personnel complete a training program on  indicators and response to workplace violence events at least bi-annually. All contract security  personnel working domestically complete training programs on ethics and conduct and cultural  diversity administered by their employer. 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments  and development programs"
"100% of PPL’s operations have programs for local community engagement.   Stakeholder engagement  Customer assistance  Community support Economic development  Energy equity, environmental justice and just transition  414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Supplier Code of Conduct 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Supplier Code of Conduct  415-1 Political contributions Public Policy Engagement   416-1 Assessment of health and safety impacts"
"of product and service  categories Safety  416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety  impacts of products and services PPL does not publicly disclose this information. 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling Electric and natural gas service cannot be labeled. We provide regular and detailed safety information  to customers via bill inserts, public service announcements, presentations, social media and the  company’s websites. 417-3 Incidents"
"of non-compliance concerning marketing communications PPL does not publicly disclose this information. 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy  and losses of customer data PPL does not publicly disclose this information.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 75 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Global Reporting Initiative - Electric Utilities Sector Disclosure GRI STANDARD #  STANDARD DESCRIPTION  PPL"
"RESPONSE  EU1 Installed capacity, broken down by primary energy source and regulatory  regime Installed capacity  EU2 Net energy output broken down by primary energy source and regulatory  regime Energy consumption and output  EU3 Number of residential, industrial, institutional and commercial accounts Customer experience  EU4 Length of above and underground transmission and distribution PPL at a glance  EU5 Allocation of CO2 emissions allowances, or equivalent, broken down by  carbon trading"
"framework None. G4-DMA Availability   & Reliability Management approach to ensure short- and long-term electricity   availability and reliability PPL addresses availability and reliability in our integrated resource plans that are submit- ted to regulatory agencies.   2024 Form 10-K. EU10 Planned capacity against projected electricity demand over the long term,  broken down by energy source and regulatory regime Forecast demand for LG&E and KU is 6,115 MW, and LG&E and KU generation capacity  is"
"currently 7,585 MW, providing a 24% reserve margin.  G4-DMA Demand Side  Management Demand-side management programs including residential, commercial,  institutional and industrial programs Where applicable, PPL addresses planned capacity and projected demand in integrated  resource plans that are submitted to regulatory agencies.   Energy efficiency  G4-DMA Research   & Development  Research and development activity and expenditure aimed at providing  reliable electricity and promoting"
"sustainable development Drive digital innovation and R&D EU11 Average generation efficiency of thermal plants by energy source and  regulatory regime In 2024, the average generation efficiency for LG&E and KU was   10.0 (MMBTU/Net MWh). EU12 Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of total energy PPL’s operating utilities use standard utility industry practices to review and identify line  losses that are outside of industry norms and take necessary steps to mediate those  issues as"
"they occur. In 2024, line loss as a percentage of total energy was:   5.09% for KU  3.37% for LG&E (electric)  1.85% for LG&E (gas)  5.33% for PPL Electric  8.0% for RIE (electric)  2.7% for RIE (gas)   EU13 Biodiversity of offset habitats compared to the biodiversity of the   affected areas Biodiversity  G4-DMA Skilled   Workforce Programs and processes to ensure the availability of a skilled workforce Workforce strategy   PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 76 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY"
"ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX GRI STANDARD #  STANDARD DESCRIPTION  PPL RESPONSE  EU15 Percentage of employees eligible to retire in next 5 and 10 years, broken  down by job category and region Workforce strategy  EU17 Days worked by contractor and subcontractor employees involved in   construction, operation and maintenance activities PPL does not publicly disclose this information. EU18 Percentage of contractor and subcontractor employees who have   undergone"
"relevant health and safety training PPL provides required health and safety-related training for 100% of the contractors   performing physical work on our electric systems. G4-DMA Water Collaborative approaches to managing watersheds and reservoirs for  multiple uses  Water use and management  G4-DMA Vegetation  Management Approaches for pest and vegetation management along transmission   and distribution corridors Vegetation management  DMA Local Communities Stakeholder participation in"
"decision making processes related to   energy planning and infrastructure development Stakeholder engagement  EU22 Number of people physically or economically displaced and   compensation, broken down by type of product We avoid displacement of anyone to the extent feasible by careful planning during   the siting process of major projects. If displacement is unavoidable, we make fair   compensation for any property transactions. DMA-Emergency  Planning  Contingency planning measures,"
"disaster/emergency management   plan and training programs, and recovery/restoration plans Emergency preparedness DMA-Customer   Support Programs  Programs, including those in partnership with government, to improve   or maintain access to electricity and customer support services. Customer assistance EU26 Percentage of population unserved in licensed distribution or service areas PPL’s utilities have an obligation to serve all who want electrical service in their service  territory. EU27 Number"
"of residential disconnections for non-payment, broken down by  duration of disconnection and by regulatory regime Residential disconnections for PPL’s electric utilities during 2024 totaled 217,998.   The number of residential reconnections within 30 days was 190,689.   Residential disconnections for PPL’s gas utilities during 2024 totaled 5,730.   The number of residential reconnections within 30 days was 4,018. EU28 Power outage frequency Reliability and resiliency  EU29 Average power outage"
"duration Reliability and resiliency  EU30 Average plant availability factor by energy source and by regulatory regime LG&E and KU’s plant availability factor is 85.42%. The unplanned outage rate for   LG&E and KU plants in 2024 was 4.71%. The equivalent forced outage rate for   LG&E and KU was 2.04%. DMA-Customer access  Practices to address language, cultural, low literacy and disability related  to barriers to accessing and safely using electricity and customer support  services Customer"
"assistance   PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 77 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX 2024 EEI-AGA ESG/SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PPL Corporation | Quantitative Information | Electric  Parent Company:                     PPL Corporation  Operating Company(s):          PPL Electric Utilities (PPL Electric), Louisville Gas & Electric and Kentucky Utilities (LG&E and KU), and Rhode Island Energy (RIE)  Business Type(s):                 Fully"
"regulated utilities; T&D (Pennsylvania, Rhode Island) and T&D plus regulated generation (Kentucky)  State(s) of Operation:                Pennsylvania, Kentucky, Virginia and Rhode Island  State(s) with RPS Programs:  Pennsylvania (mandatory), Rhode Island (mandatory)  Regulatory Environment:             Regulated  Report Date:                         04/24/2025 Company-specific data available for download here.  REF. NO.  DESCRIPTION  LAST YEAR  2023 CURRENT YEAR  2024 1 Owned Nameplate"
"Generation Capacity at end of year (MW) 7,535 7,264 1.1 Coal  4,715 4,415 1.2 Natural Gas 2,716 2,745 1.3 Nuclear 1.4 Petroleum 1.5 Total Renewable Energy Resources 104 104 1.5.1 Biomass/Biogas 1.5.2 Geothermal 1.5.3 Hydroelectric 96 96 1.5.4 Solar 8 8 1.5.5 Wind 1.6 Other 2 Net Generation for the data year (MWh)  30,089,360 31,332,379 2.1 Coal  24,394,774 24,957,160 2.2 Natural Gas 5,361,936 6,069,908  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 78 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT"
"SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX REF. NO.  DESCRIPTION  LAST YEAR  2023 CURRENT YEAR  2024 2.3 Nuclear 2.4 Petroleum 228 -58 2.5 Total Renewable Energy Resources 332,422 305,369 2.5.1 Biomass/Biogas 2.5.2 Geothermal 2.5.3 Hydroelectric 316,011 289,710 2.5.4 Solar 16,411 15,659 2.5.5 Wind 2.6 Other 2.i Owned Net Generation for the data year (MWh)  29,422,636 30,697,566 2.1.i Coal  23,728,050 24,322,347 2.2.i Natural Gas 5,361,936 6,069,908 2.3.i Nuclear 2.4.i Petroleum 228 -58 2.5.i Total"
"Renewable Energy Resources 332,422 305,369 2.5.1.i Biomass/Biogas 2.5.2.i Geothermal 2.5.3.i Hydroelectric 316,011 289,710 2.5.4.i Solar 16,411 15,659 2.5.5.i Wind 2.6.i Other 2.ii Purchased Net Generation for the data year (MWh)  666,724 634,813 2.1.ii Coal   PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 79 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX REF. NO.  DESCRIPTION  LAST YEAR  2023 CURRENT YEAR  2024 2.2.ii Natural Gas 2.3.ii Nuclear 2.4.ii"
"Petroleum 2.5.ii Total Renewable Energy Resources 2.5.1.ii Biomass/Biogas 2.5.2.ii Geothermal 2.5.3.ii Hydroelectric 2.5.4.ii Solar 2.5.5.ii Wind 2.6.ii Other 3 Capital Expenditures and Energy Efficiency (EE) 3.1 Total Annual Capital Expenditures (nominal dollars)  $2,360,000,000  $2,812,000,000 3.2 Incremental Annual Electricity Savings from EE Measures (MWh) 367,908 434,103 3.3 Incremental Annual Investment in Electric EE Programs (nominal dollars)  $185,979,276  $199,838,736 4 Retail Electric"
"Customer Count (at end of year) 3,006,113 3,027,228 4.1 Commercial  402,986 406,442 4.2 Industrial  6,915 6,834 4.3 Residential 2,596,212 2,613,952 5 GHG Emissions: Carbon Dioxide (CO2) and Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e) 5.1 Owned Generation (1) (2) (3) 5.1.1 Carbon Dioxide (CO2)  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 80 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX REF. NO.  DESCRIPTION  LAST YEAR  2023 CURRENT YEAR  2024 5.1.1.1 Total Owned"
"Generation CO2 Emissions (MT) 5.1.1.2 Total Owned Generation CO2 Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)  5.1.2 Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e) 5.1.2.1 Total Owned Generation CO2e Emissions (MT) 25,088,102 26,449,168 5.1.2.2 Total Owned Generation CO2e Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)  0.853 0.861 5.2 Purchased Power (4) 5.2.1 Carbon Dioxide (CO2) 5.2.1.1 Total Purchased Generation CO2 Emissions (MT) 5.2.1.2 Total Purchased Generation CO2 Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)  5.2.2 Carbon Dioxide"
"Equivalent (CO2e) 5.2.2.1 Total Purchased Generation CO2e Emissions (MT) 5,370,151 4,758,381 5.2.2.2 Total Purchased Generation CO2e Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)  0.36 0.33 5.3 Owned Generation + Purchased Power 5.3.1 Carbon Dioxide (CO2) 5.3.1.1 Total Owned + Purchased Generation CO2 Emissions (MT) 5.3.1.2 Total Owned + Purchased Generation CO2 Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)  5.3.2 Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e) 5.3.2.1 Total Owned + Purchased Generation CO2e Emissions (MT) 30,458,252"
"31,207,549 5.3.2.2 Total Owned + Purchased Generation CO2e Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh)  0.687 0.693 5.4 Non-Generation CO2e Emissions of Sulfur Hexafluoride (SF6) (5) 5.4.1 Total CO2e emissions of SF6 (MT) 12,324 16,533 5.4.2 Leak rate of CO2e emissions of SF6 (MT/Net MWh) 0.00028 0.00037  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 81 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX REF. NO.  DESCRIPTION  LAST YEAR  2023 CURRENT YEAR  2024 6 Nitrogen"
"Oxide (NOx), Sulfur Dioxide (SO2), Mercury (Hg) 6.1 Generation basis for calculation (6) 6.2 Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) 6.2.1 Total NOx Emissions (MT) 13,149 13,758 6.2.2 Total NOx Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh) 0.00045 0.00045 6.3 Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) 6.3.1 Total SO2 Emissions (MT) 12,250 15,759 6.3.2 Total SO2 Emissions Intensity (MT/Net MWh) 0.00042 0.00051 6.4 Mercury (Hg) 6.4.1 Total Hg Emissions (kg) 41.0 49.1 6.4.2 Total Hg Emissions Intensity (kg/Net MWh) 1.39E-06 1.60E-06 7 Human Resources"
"7.1 Total Number of Employees 6,629 6,653 7.2 Percentage of Women in Total Workforce 26% 26% 7.3 Percentage of Minorities in Total Workforce 13% 13% 7.4 Total Number on Board of Directors/Trustees 10 10 7.5 Percentage of Women on Board of Directors/Trustees 40% 40% 7.6 Percentage of Minorities on Board of Directors/Trustees 30% 30% 7.7 Employee Safety Metrics 7.7.1 Recordable Incident Rate 1.33 1.41 7.7.2 Lost-time Case Rate  0.38 0.53  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 82 INTRODUCTION"
"SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX REF. NO.  DESCRIPTION  LAST YEAR  2023 CURRENT YEAR  2024 7.7.3 Days Away, Restricted, and Transfer (DART) Rate 0.75 0.80 7.7.4 Work-related Fatalities 0 0 8 Fresh Water Resources used in Thermal Power Generation Activities 8.1 Water Withdrawals - Consumptive (Millions of Gallons) 8,012 11,624 8.2 Water Withdrawals - Non-Consumptive (Millions of Gallons) 92,221 101,464 8.3 Water Withdrawals - Consumptive Rate"
"(Millions of Gallons/Net MWh) 0.00027 0.00038 8.4 Water Withdrawals - Non-Consumptive Rate (Millions of Gallons/Net MWh) 0.00313 0.00331 9 Waste Products 9.1 Amount of Hazardous Waste Manifested for Disposal 217.15 56.04 9.2 Percent of Coal Combustion Products Beneficially Used 71.9% 69.7%  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 83 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX 2024 EEI-AGA ESG/SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PPL Corporation | Quantitative"
"Information | Natural Gas  Parent Company:                 PPL Corporation  Operating Company(s):          Louisville Gas & Electric and Kentucky Utilities (LG&E and KU), and Rhode Island Energy (RIE)  Business Type(s):        Fully regulated utilities  State(s) of Operation:       Kentucky and Rhode Island  Regulatory Environment:      Regulated  Report Date:                 04/24/2025 Company-specific data available for download here.   REF. NO.  DESCRIPTION  LAST YEAR  2023 CURRENT YEAR  2024"
"Natural Gas Distribution  1 Methane Emissions and Mitigation from Distribution Mains 1.1 Number of Gas Distribution Customers 612,731 614,926 1.2 Distribution Mains in Service 1.2.1 Plastic (miles) 4,052.55 4,114.54 1.2.2 Cathodically Protected Steel - Bare & Coated (miles) 2,776.42 2,776.37 1.2.3 Unprotected Steel - Bare & Coated (miles) 263.86 251.18 1.2.4 Cast Iron / Wrought Iron - without upgrades (miles) 560.79 542.10 1.3 Plan/Commitment to Replace / Upgrade Remaining Miles of Distribution"
"Mains (# years to complete) 1.3.1 Unprotected Steel (Bare & Coated) (# years to complete) 1.3.2 Cast Iron / Wrought Iron (# years to complete) 2 Distribution CO2e Fugitive Emissions  2.1 CO2e Fugitive Methane Emissions from Gas Distribution Operations (metric tons) 143,206.5 129,922.25 2.2 CH4 Fugitive Methane Emissions from Gas Distribution Operations (metric tons) 5,728.26 5,196.89 2.2.1 CH4 Fugitive Methane Emissions from Gas Distribution Operations (MMSCF/year) 298.35 270.67 2.3 Annual"
"Natural Gas Throughput from Gas Distribution Operations in thousands of standard cubic feet (Mscf/year) 77,178,019 77,960,023  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 84 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX REF. NO.  DESCRIPTION  LAST YEAR  2023 CURRENT YEAR  2024 2.3.1 Annual Methane Gas Throughput from Gas Distribution Operations in millions of standard cubic feet (MMscf/year) 73,319.12 74,062.02 2.4 Fugitive Methane Emissions Rate (Percent"
"MMscf of Methane Emissions per MMscf of Methane Throughput) 0.41% 0.37% Natural Gas Gathering and Boosting   3.1.1 NOx ( metric tons per year) 0.53 0.42 3.1.2 VOC (metric tons per year) 4.35 2.34      PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 85 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX PPL CORPORATION 2024 SUSTAINABILITY  ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (SASB) REPORT Disclosure Topics & Accounting Metrics SASB Code Accounting Metric  Response Greenhouse"
"Gas Emissions & Energy Resource Planning IF-EU-110a.1 (1) Gross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage covered under (2) emissions-limiting regulations and (3) emissions-reporting regulations See emissions chart in this report.  IF-EU-110a.2 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions associated with power deliveries See emissions chart in this report.  IF-EU-110a.3 Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to manage  Scope 1 emissions, emissions reduction targets, and an analysis of  performance"
"against those targets Advancing a cleaner energy future, see p. 18-21.  See emissions chart in this report. IF-EU-110a.4 (1) Number of customers served in markets subject to renewable portfolio standards (RPS) and (2) percentage fulfillment of RPS target by market PPL Electric Utilities’ 1.5 million customers in Pennsylvania are subject to renewable portfolio  standards and PPL consistently met target requirements. From June 2023 to May 2024,   alternative power sources comprised 18% of the"
"power PPL Electric bought for customers who  had not chosen a competitive supplier. This included 8% from solar, wind and hydropower energy  sources. Rhode Island Energy (RIE) supports the state of Rhode Island’s Renewable Energy Standard  (RES), which requires purchase of 100% renewable electricity by 2033. In 2024, RIE was required  to meet 28% renewable electricity.  Air Quality IF-EU-120a.1 Air emissions of the following pollutants; percentage of each in or near  areas of dense population:"
"(1) NOx (excluding N2O) (2) SOx (3) particulate matter (PM10) (4) lead (Pb) (5) mercury (Hg) See emissions chart in this report.   PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 86 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX SASB Code Accounting Metric  Response Water Management IF-EU-140a.1 (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed, percentage of each in regions with High or Extremely   High Baseline Water Stress No water is sourced from regions"
"with high or extremely high baseline water stress.   For data on water withdrawn and consumed, see p. 32.  IF-EU-140a.2 Number of incidents of non-compliance associated with water quantity and/or quality permits, standards,   and regulations No significant fines (defined as more than $100,000). IF-EU-140a.3 Description of water management risks and discussion of strategies  and practices to mitigate those risks Water management   Coal Ash Management  IF-EU-150a.1 Amount of coal combustion"
"residuals (CCR) generated, percentage  recycled 2.63 million metric tonnes, 69.7% recycled IF-EU-150a.2 Total number of coal combustion residual (CCR) impoundments,  broken down by hazard potential classification and structural integrity assessment Plans for CCR rule compliance and related data about each of LG&E and KU’s facilities regulated  under the Coal Combustion Residuals Rule is publicly available on LG&E and KU’s website at   lge-ku.com/CCR.  Energy Affordability  IF-EU-240a.1 Average"
"retail electric rate for  (1) residential,  (2) commercial, and  (3) industrial customers Average customer bills IF-EU-240a.2 Typical monthly electric bill for residential customers for  (1) 500 kWh and  (2) 1,000 kWh of electricity delivered per month Average customer bills IF-EU-240a.3 Number of residential customer electric disconnections for non-payment, percentage reconnected within   30 days In 2024, PPL’s U.S.-based electric utilities had 217,998 residential disconnections for   non-"
"payment. The percentage reconnected within 30 days was 87.5%. IF-EU-240a.4 Discussion of impact of external factors on customer affordability of  electricity, including the economic conditions of the service territory See PPL’s Form 10K  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 87 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX SASB Code Accounting Metric  Response Workforce Health and Safety  IF-EU-320a.1 (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR)  (2)"
"fatality rate  (3) near miss frequency rate (NMFR) (1) 1.41 (2) 0.00 (3) PPL does not publicly disclose its NMFR End-Use Efficiency & Demand IF-EU-420a.1 Percentage of electric utility revenues from rate structures that (1)   are decoupled and (2) contain a lost revenue adjustment   mechanism (LRAM) We do not currently utilize any such mechanisms. IF-EU-420a.2 Percentage of electric load served by smart grid technology All PPL operating companies use smart grid technology across their networks."
"For details on smart grid investments, see p. 26  IF-EU-420a.3 Customer electricity savings from efficiency measures, by market Refer to our Energy Efficiency section in this report, see p. 29. Nuclear Safety & Emergency Management IF-EU-540a.1 Total number of nuclear power units, broken down by U.S. Nuclear  Regulatory Commission (NRC) Action Matrix Column N/A IF-EU-540a.2 Description of efforts to manage nuclear safety and emergency   preparedness N/A Grid Resiliency  IF-EU-550a.1 Number of"
"incidents of non-compliance with physical and/or   cybersecurity standards or regulations No material violations or fines (as determined under the reporting standards of the North American  Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC). For information on PPL’s strategy to   protect the physical and cybersecurity of power grid infrastructure, see p. 60. IF-EU-550a.2 (1) System Average Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI)  (2) System  Average Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI), and  (3) Customer"
"Average Interruption Duration Index (CAIDI), inclusive of major   event days See Reliability on p. 27.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 88 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX ACTIVITY METRICS  Electric Utilities  IF-EU-000.A Number of:   (1) residential,   (2) commercial, and   (3) industrial customers served See customers served on p. 47. IF-EU-000.B Total electricity delivered to:   (1) residential,   (2) commercial,   (3)"
"industrial,   (4) all other retail customers, and   (5) wholesale customers See PPL’s 10-K for fiscal year ending   Dec. 31, 2024, p. 4.  IF-EU-000.C Length of transmission and distribution lines (km) See PPL’s 10-K for fiscal year ending   Dec. 31, 2024, p. 27-28. IF-EU-000.D Total electricity generated, percentage by major energy source, percentage in regulated markets See EEI – section 2 in this report.  IF-EU-000.E Total wholesale electricity purchased (MWh) 14,340,177 Natural Gas Utilities"
"IF-GU-000.A Number of: (1) residential, (2) commercial, and (3) industrial customers served See customers served on p. 47.  IF-GU-240.a1 Average retail gas rate for  (1) residential,  (2) commercial,  (3) industrial customers, and  (4) transportation services only Average gas rates IF-GU-240a.4 Discussion of impact of external factors on customer affordability of gas, including the economic conditions of the service  territory See Affordability and Assistance section of this report.  IF-"
"GU-420a.2 Customer gas savings from efficiency measures, by market (MMBtu)  241,413  IF-GU-540a.1 Number of   (1) reportable pipeline incidents,   (2) corrective actions received and   (3) violations of pipeline safety statutes Not publicly disclosed. IF-GU-540a.2 Percentage of distribution pipeline that is   (1) cast or wrought iron and   (2) unprotected steel (1) 7.1%  (2) 3.3% IF-GU-540a.3 Percentage of gas  (1) transmission and  (2) distribution pipelines inspected Not publicly disclosed."
"IF-GU-540a.4 Description of efforts to manage the integrity of gas delivery infrastructure, including risks related to safety and emissions See Natural Gas Operations section of this report.   PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 89 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES REPORT  All Sector Financial Disclosures  TOPIC  RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURE PPL’S RESPONSE MAPPING  Governance Disclose the"
"organization’s governance around  climate-related risks and opportunities.  Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. See Governance section of this report.   Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and  opportunities See Governance section of this report.   Strategy  Disclose the actual and potential impacts of   climate-related risks and opportunities on the  organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial  planning where"
"such information is material. Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over  the short, medium, and long term. See Clean Energy Strategy section of this report.  Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s  businesses, strategy, and financial planning. See Clean Energy Strategy section of this report. Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different  climate-related"
"scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario.  See Clean Energy Strategy section of this report. Risk Management  Disclose how the organization identifies,   assesses, and manages climate-related risks. Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related  risks. See Risk Management section of this report.  Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks. See Risk Management section of this report. Describe how processes for identifying,"
"assessing, and managing climate-related risks  are integrated into the organization’s overall risk management. See Risk Management section of this report. Metrics and Targets Disclose the metrics and targets used to   assess and manage relevant climate-related   risks and opportunities where such information   is material. Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks and   opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process. See the Advancing a"
"Cleaner Energy Future  section of this report.  Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG)   emissions, and the related risks. See the Metrics section of this report.  Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and  opportunities and performance against targets. See the Advancing a Cleaner Energy Future  section of this report.   PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 90 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL"
"GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Energy Group Metrics  FINANCIAL CATEGORY  CLIMATE-RELATED CATEGORY  RECOMMENDED DISCLOSURE PPL’S RESPONSE MAPPING  Revenues  GHG Emissions  Estimated Scope 3 emissions, including methodologies and  emission factors used  See Metrics Section in this report.  Revenues  Risk Adaptation & Mitigation  Revenues/savings from investments in low-carbon alterna- tives (e.g. R&D, equipment, products or services) PPL’s 2024 10-K  See the Advancing a Cleaner Energy Future,"
"pp. 18-29. Expenditures GHG Emissions  Describe current carbon price or range of prices used See p. 91. Expenditures  Risk Adaptation & Mitigation Expenditures (OpEx) for low-carbon alternatives (e.g., R&D,  equipment, products or services)  See Capital Investment Plan, p. 26. Expenditures  Risk Adaptation & Mitigation Proportion of capital allocation to long-lived assets versus  short-term assets See Capital Investment Plan, p. 26. Expenditures Water  Percent water withdrawn in regions with"
"high or extremely  high baseline water stress  PPL does not withdraw water in regions that are considered to  have a high or extremely high baseline water stress according  to the WRI Aqueduct Tool. See water management  Assets Water Assets committed in regions with high or extremely high  baseline water stress  PPL considers the following a facility: All PPL owned/partially  owned sites that hold NPDES and/or permits (4 sites are  deemed material). All 4 of these facilities are located in an"
"area  that has a low to low-medium water stress rating according to  the WRI Aqueduct Tool. LG&E and KU generation facilities  monitor and comply with all state and local water quality  standards when the water leaves our facilities.   Information on this can be found in the state report at   https://eec.ky.gov/Environmental-Protection/Water/Monitor/ Pages/Assessments.aspx. See water management, p. 32.   Assets Risk Adaptation & Mitigation  Investment (CapEx) in low-carbon alternatives (e.g.,"
"capital  equipment or assets) See Capital Investment Plan, p. 26. Capital  Risk Adaptation & Mitigation Capital payback periods or return on capital deployed See Capital Investment Plan, p. 26.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 91 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX CDP QUESTIONNAIRE | CLIMATE | WATER | BIODIVERSITY   This disclosure includes relevant topics that have a direct or indirect impact on the company’s ability to create,"
"preserve or erode economic,  environmental and social value for PPL and its various stakeholders. Non-applicable topics/metrics are excluded from these disclosures.    Introduction 1.1 | 1.2 | 1.3 | 1.4 | 1.4.1 | 1.5 | 1.6 | 1.7 | 1.12 | 1.16.1 | 1.24 See pp. 2-11. Reporting boundary is the same as that used in our financial statements.   Identification, assessment, and management of dependencies, impacts, risks, and opportunities 2.1 | 2.2 | 2.2.1 | 2.2.2 | 2.2.7 | 2.3 | 2.4 | 2.5 | 2.5.1 PPL"
"defines our time horizons as short term (0-2 years), medium term (3-5 years) and long term (6-26 years). Our operating companies’ Integrated Resource and Transmission and Distribution  planning horizon is typically a 15-year timeframe; while our climate assessment and emission reduction goals are more than 25 years from the date of this response (to 2050). See p. 16-19. See p. 31-35. Disclosure of risks and opportunities 3.1 | 3.1.1 | 3.1.2 | 3.2 | 3.3 | 3.5 | 3.6 | 3.6.1 | 3.6.2    PPL 2024"
"SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 92 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Governance 4.1 | 4.1.1 | 4.1.2 | 4.2 | 4.3 | 4.3.1 | 4.4 | 4.5 | 4.5.1 | 4.6 | 4.6.1 | 4.10 | 4.11 | 4.11.1 | 4.12 | 4.12.1 See p. 14-16 and p. 56-57. See PPL’s environmental policies See all of PPL’s sustainability disclosures  See PPL's Public Policy Engagement Business strategy 5.1 | 5.1.1 | 5.1.2 | 5.2 | 5.3 | 5.3.1 | 5.3.2 | 5.4 | 5.4.1 | 5.4.3 | 5.5 | 5.5.7 | 5.7 |"
"5.7.1 | 5.9 | 5.10 | 5.10.1 | 5.10.2 | 5.11 | 5.11.1 | 5.11.2 | 5.11.5 | 5.11.6 | 5.11.7 | 5.11.9 See PPL’s 2021 Climate Assessment See p. 18-26 See p. 16-22 See p. 26 See p. 23-30 See p. 62 See p. 31-35 Environmental Performance – Consolidation Approach  6.1 PPL environmental disclosures follow the same consolidation approach as our financial reporting.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 93 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX"
"Environmental performance - Climate Change 7.1.1 | 7.1.2 | 7.1.3 | 7.2 | 7.3 | 7.4 | 7.4.1 | 7.45 | 7.5 | 7.6 | 7.7 | 7.8 | 7.8.1 | 7.9 | 7.9.1 | 7.9.2 | 7.9.3 | 7.10 | 7.10.1 | 7.10.2 | 7.12 | 7.12.1 | 7.15 | 7.15.1 | 7.15.3 | 7.16 | 7.17 | 7.17.1 | 7.17.1 | 7.17.2  | 7.17.3 | 7.19 | 7.22 | 7.23 | 7.23.1 | 7.29 | 7.30 | 7.30.1 | 7.30.6 | 7.30.7 | 7.30.16 | 7.33 | 7.33.1 | 7.45 | 7.46 | 7.52 | 7.53 | 7.53.1 | 7.53.2 | 7.53.3 | 7.54 | 7.54.1 | 7.54.2 | 7.54.3 | 7.55 | 7.55.1 |  7.55.2 | 7.55.3 |"
"7.55.4 | 7.58 | 7.74 | 7.74.1 | 7.79 | 7.79.1 PPL has not undergone any structural changes in the reporting year that would affect the disclosure of emissions data.  The company uses the Greenhouse Gas Accounting Protocol and EPA collective data to calculate emissions.  See p. 18-20 See charts p. 95-100 See chart p. 98  See chart p. 104 See PPL 2024 10-K p. 4 See chart p. 97 See p. 22-30 See chart p. 99 Environmental performance - Water security 9.1 | 9.1.1 | 9.2 | 9.2.1 | 9.2.2 | 9.2.4 | 9.2.7"
"| 9.2.8 | 9.2.9 | 9.2.10 | 9.3 | 9.3.1 | 9.3.2 | 9.5 | 9.7 | 9.7.1 | 9.13 | 9.13.1 | 9.14 | 9.15 | 9.15.1 | 9.15.2 | 9.15.3 See p. 31-32  See chart p. 101 Environmental performance – Biodiversity 11.2 | 11.3 | 11.4 | 11.4.1 See p. 31-35 Assurance 13.1 | 13.1.1 PPL does not currently go through a third party for data verification and/or assurance. An internal assurance and audit process is followed.   PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 94 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT"
"SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX Alignment with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Our mission to provide safe, affordable, reliable, sustainable energy to our customers aligns with several of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.  Sustainable Development Goal  Relevance Clean water and sanitation We carefully manage the water we use while generating electricity and monitor the impact of   wastewater discharged into waterways. PPL supports programs that protect"
"waterways and the   ecosystems that depend on them in the service areas where our utilities operate.  Affordable and clean energy We are focused on providing safe, affordable, reliable and   environmentally responsible energy solutions to our customers. Decent work and economic growth We are focused on cultivating success for our employees by fostering a supportive, empowering and   collabortive workplace culture that rewards performance, promotes professional development and   enables employees"
"to achieve their full potential. We also work closely with local and state officials   to foster economic development that creates jobs throughout the communities we serve. Industry, innovation and infrastructure We are investing in tomorrow’s energy infrastructure by developing a more reliable, resilient   and efficient grid that fosters continued progress and enables a cleaner energy future. Climate action We have developed a clean energy strategy that supports a net-zero economy and   our"
"decarbonization goals while keeping affordability, value and reliability at the core.   PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 95 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX NET-ZERO GOAL-RELATED EMISSIONS (2010 BASELINE) 2010 2023 2024 Scope 1: Gross MWh of Owned Generation (metric tonnes of CO2e ) 60,736,0861 25,085,718 26,443,629 Scope 1: Fleet Vehicles (metric tonnes of CO2e)3 48,343 30,885 32,331 Scope 1: Small Plant Stationary Fuel Combustion"
"Sources (metric tonnes of CO2e) 2,515 2,384 5,539 Scope 1: Plant Mobile Equipment (metric tonnes of CO2e) 4,893 5,373 5,668 Scope 1: Fugitive SF6 Emissions (metric tonnes of CO2e) 114,727 12,324 16,533 Scope 1: Gas Used in Facilities (stationary fuel combustion) (metric tonnes of CO2e) 18,250 14,395 13,913 Scope 2: Electricity Use in Facilities (metric tonnes of CO2e)2,3 89,732 19,915 18,611 Scope 3: Electricity Purchased for End Use Customers - LG&E and KU (MWh) 1,906,442 666,724 634,813 Scope"
"3: Electricity Purchased for End Use Customers - LG&E and KU (metric tonnes of CO2e)3 1,597,157 624,245 558,171 Total Goal-Related Emissions (metric tonnes of CO2e)  62,577,296 25,795,238 27,094,395 12010 Scope 1 Plant Emissions is the only data point that includes former PPL affiliate, PPL Energy Supply, LLC.   2Emissions for facilities served by LG&E and KU are included in scope 1 generation emissions.  3Recalculated in 2025 to include additional related Kyoto Protocol gases. OTHER CO2e"
"EMISSIONS 2023  2024 Scope 1: Gas Operations (metric tonnes of CO2e) 143,380 145,527 Scope 3: Electricity Purchased for End Use Customers - PPL Electric and Rhode Island Energy (MWh) 14,243,683 13,705,364 Scope 3: Electricity Purchased for End Use Customers - PPL Electric and Rhode Island Energy (metric tonnes of CO2e)1 4,745,906 4,200,210 Scope 3: Gas Purchased for End Use Customers - LG&E and Rhode Island Energy (MMCUFT) 77,178 77,960 Scope 3: Gas Purchased for End Use Customers - LG&E and"
"Rhode Island Energy (metric tonnes of CO2e) 3,834,945 4,015,726 Scope 3: Employee Commuting (metric tonnes of CO2e)1 6,947 7,421 Scope 3: Business Travel (metric tonnes of CO2e)1 1,264 1,183 1 Recalculated in 2025 to include additional related Kyoto Protocol gases.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 96 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX AIR EMISSIONS 2024 Total NOx Emissions (metric tonnes) 13,758 Total NOx Emissions Intensity (metric"
"tonnes/owned net generation) 0.00045 Total SO2 Emissions (metric tonnes) 15,759 Total SO2 Emissions Intensity (metric tonnes/owned net generation) 0.00051 Total HG Emissions (kg) 49 Hazardous Air Pollutants Intensity (kg/owned net MWh) 0.0000016 Particulate Matter (metric tonnes) 650 ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND OUTPUT 2024  Owned Gross Generation (MWh) 33,447,036 Owned Net Generation (MWh) 30,697,566 Total MMBtu Consumed at Plant 306,458,898 Generation Efficiency Heat Rate (MMBtu/owned net"
"generation) 10.0 Small Plant Stationary Combustion Sources (liters) 2,779,350,925 Plant Mobile Fuel Combustion Sources (liters) 2,185,126 Facility Electricity Use (kWh) 60,166,916 Facility Gas Use (kWh) 76,899,854 Fleet Vehicle Energy Use (liters) 12,996,434 CARBON INTENSITY 2024 Operating Revenues (in millions) 8,462 Revenue Carbon Intensity1 0.0031 Gross Generation Carbon Intensity2 0.861 1Total CO2e goal-related emissions divided by revenue. 2Total CO2e associated with gross owned generation"
"divided by owned net generation. INSTALLED CAPACITY1 2024 Total Net Summer Rating at end of year (MW) 7,264 Coal Total Net Summer Rating (MW) 4,415 Natural Gas Net Summer Rating (MW) 2,745 Renewable Net Summer Rating (MW) 104 Hydroelectric Net Summer Rating (MW) 96 Solar Net Summer Rating2 (MW) 8 1As reported in 10-K year ending Dec. 31, 2023. Owned generation excludes purchased power.   Includes 75% Trimble County Unit 1 & 2 ownership. 2Does not include additional 1.7 MW from LG&E and KU’s"
"community Solar Share program.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 97 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX ELECTRICITY GENERATION BY TECHNOLOGY Technology Gross electricity generation (GWh) Net electricity generation (GWh) Coal – Hard 26,934 24,322 Natural Gas 6,205 6,069 Hydropower 292 289 Solar 15 15 Total 33,447 30,697 SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS RELATING TO TOTAL POWER PLANT CAPACITY  AND GENERATION BY SOURCE (METRIC TONNES CO2e) Absolute Scope"
"1 emissions Power Generation technology 2023 2024 Coal – hard 22,966,308 23,803,693 Gas 2,116,722 2,634,001 Hydropower 0 0 Solar 0 0 TOTAL GROSS SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS BY GREENHOUSE GAS TYPE 2024 Gross Scope 1 carbon dioxide emissions (metric tonnes CO2) 26,294,002 Gross Scope 1 methane emissions (metric tonnes CH4) 8,075 Gross Scope 1 nitrous oxide emissions (metric tonnes N2O) 116,208 Gross Scope 1 SF6 emissions (metric tonnes SF6) 0.704 SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS  ELECTRICITY USE IN FACILITIES (METRIC"
"TONNES CO2e) Base Year 2010 Reporting Year 2024 RIE 3,029 PPL Electric 15,216 LG&E and KU1 28,824 LG&E and KU – Other utility1 366 TOTAL 89,732 18,611   1 ‘LG&E and KU – Other utility’ refers to LG&E and KU service center locations that fall outside of LG&E and KU service territory.   All locations within the service territory are counted under Scope 1 emissions, ‘Gross MWh of Owned Generation’.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 98 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL"
"GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX ENERGY CONSUMPTION TOTALS IN MWH  2024 MWh from renewable sources Percentage from renewable sources MWh from non-renewable sources Percentage from non-renewable sources Consumption of fuel 0 0% 184,497 100% Consumption of purchased electricity 11,857 19.7% 48,310 80.3% Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy 2,512 100% 0 0% Consumption of self-generated non-renewable electricity 0 0% 2,749,470 100% Total energy consumption 14,369 0.5% 2,982,277"
"99.5% SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS (METRIC TONNES CO2e) Emissions directly from owned or controlled sources such as power generation, energy use within generation territory and fleet vehicles.  Base Year 2010 Reporting Year 2024 TOTAL RIE PPL Electric LG&E and KU TOTAL Gross MWh of Owned Generation (includes CO2, N2O, and CH4)1 60,836,086 26,443,629 26,443,629 Fleet Vehicles 48,343 7,265 12,037 13,029 32,331 Small Plant Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources, not included in stack emissions* 2,515 5,539 5,539"
"Plant Mobile Equipment* 4,893 5,668 5,668 Gas operations 133,017 12,510 145,527 Fugitive SF6 114,727 2,697 10,475 3,361 16,533 Gas Used in Facilities (stationary fuel combustion) 18,250 8,823 5,090 13,913 1Gross Scope 1 emissions by electric utilities production activity sector.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 99 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS FROM ELECTRIC UTILITIES VALUE CHAIN   ACTIVITIES BY GREENHOUSE GAS"
"TYPE 2024 Fugitives Gross Scope 1 carbon dioxide emissions (metric tonnes CO2) 156.8 Gross Scope 1 methane emissions (metric tonnes CH4) 5,196.9 Gross Scope 1 SF6 emissions (metric tonnes SF6) 0.704 Total gross Scope 1 GHG emissions (metric tonnes CO2e) 162,966 Combustion (electric utilities) Gross Scope 1 CO2 emissions (metric tonnes CO2) 26,255,178 Gross Scope 1 methane emissions (metric tonnes CH4) 2,834.8 Total Gross Scope 1 emissions (metric tonnes CO2e) 26,443,233 Combustion (other) Total"
"Gross Scope 1 emissions (metric tonnes CO2e) 13,913 Emissions not classified elsewhere Gross Scope 1 CO2 emissions (metric tonnes CO2) 24,754 Gross Scope 1 methane emissions (metric tonnes CH4) 42.98 Total Gross Scope 1 emissions (metric tonnes CO2e) 25,957 REDUCING EMISSIONS ACROSS OUT OPERATIONS: FLEET VEHICLES  35% fleet to be electrified by 2035 (forklifts and light-duty vehicles), 25% anti-idle policy to be enforced on all fleet  vehicles, 100% bucket trucks fitted with electric lift"
"technology by 2035. Operating Company Base Year Base Year   (metric tonnes CO2e)1 Target Year Reporting Year   (metric tonnes CO2e) RIE 2022 6,262 2030 7,265 PPL EU 2019 11,377 2030 12,037 LG&E and KU 2019 14,654 2030 13,029   1Baseline metric tonnes CO2e recalculated to follow current more inclusive calculations to include additional related Kyoto Protocol  gases. EPA and GHG Protocol data used for CO2, CH4, and N2O calculations. REDUCE ENERGY USAGE AT PPL-OWNED BUILDINGS   BY UP TO 28% BY"
"2030: ELECTRICITY  Operating Company Base Year Base Year   (metric tonnes CO2e)1 Target Year Reporting Year   (metric tonnes CO2e) RIE 2022 4,035 2030 3,029 PPL EU 2019 22,941 2030 15,216 LG&E and KU 2019 29,774 2030 29,190   1Baseline metric tonnes CO2e recalculated to follow current more inclusive calculations to include additional related Kyoto Protocol  gases. EPA eGRID data used for CO2, CH4, and N2O calculations. REDUCE ENERGY USAGE AT PPL-OWNED BUILDINGS   BY UP TO 28% BY 2030: GAS"
"Operating Company Base Year Base Year   (metric tonnes CO2e) Target Year Reporting Year   (metric tonnes CO2e) RIE 2022 10,913 2030 8,823 LG&E and KU 2019 8,349 2030 5,090  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 100 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS (METRIC TONNES CO2e) All other indirect emissions from upstream and downstream activities across the supply chain of a company, including any caused by customers’ use   of"
"those products. These can include emissions associated with business travel, procurement, waste and water. In 2024, PPL completed an assessment   of Scope 3 emissions to determine relevant categories. Base Year 2010 Reporting Year 2024 TOTAL RIE PPL Electric LG&E and KU TOTAL Category 3: Electricity Purchased for End-Use Customers (MWh) 17,886,782 3,293,257 10,412,107 634,813 14,340,177 Category 3: Electricity Purchased for End-Use Customers (metric tonnes CO2e) 8,860,289 811,430 3,388,780"
"558,171 4,758,381 Category 6: Employee Commuting (metric tonnes CO2e) 1,291 3,053 3,077 7,421 Category 7: Business Travel (metric tonnes CO2e) 244 673 266 1,183 Category 11: Gas Purchased for End-Use Customers (MMCUFT) 44,546 36,392 41,568 77,960 Category 11: Gas Purchased for End-Use Customers (metric tonnes CO2e) 2,389,400 2,008,583 2,007,143 4,015,726 Excluded categories are not core business activities and are material to all or most sectors.   The most relevant categories to PPL are"
"calculated to the best of our ability. Category 1:   Purchased Goods   and Services Category 2:   Capital Goods and  Services Category 4:   Upstream transportation  and distribution Category 5:   Waste Generated   in Operations Category 8:   Upstream   leased assets Category 9:   Downstream transportation   and distribution Category 10:   Processing   of sold product Category 12:   End-of-life-treatment   of sold products Relevant, full inventory   not yet complete. Not relevant at this time Not"
"relevant Not relevant Not relevant Not relevant N/A, the electricity   and natural gas that we  deliver to end users is   not further processed. Not relevant  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 101 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE 2024 Water Sources Affected by Withdrawal of Water Plant 2024 Withdrawal  (megaliters/year) % Impact   (water withdrawn compared  to waterbody size) 2024 Discharge1"
"(megaliters/year) Water Body Waterbody Size  (lake-megaliters or   river-megaliters/day) Consumption  (megaliters/year)  (withdrawal - discharge) Total Volume of Water Recycled   and Reused as a Percentage   of Total Water Withdrawal KU-Brown 16,083 0.014% 6,855 Herrington Lake   (created by Dix River Dam) 324,4052 9,228 42.62% KU-Ghent 99,898 0.247% 103,021 Ohio River 110,8293 -3,1234 103.13% LG&E-Cane Run 4,663 0.011% 1,245 Ohio River 119,8823 3,418 26.70% LG&E-Mill Creek 263,976 0.603%"
"252,301 Ohio River 119,8823 11,675 95.58% LG&E-Trimble County 43,467 0.107% 20,663 Ohio River 110,8293 22,804 47.54% Totals 428,087 384,085 44,002 89.72% 1These numbers were calculated from annual averages of the NPDES-KPDES reported values for the Discharge Monthly Reports (DMR) or using process-specific flow information. Flows include discharges from ash ponds, cooling tower blowdown  streams, once-through cooling flows and accumulated stormwaters within impoundments or collected/drainage"
"process areas. These flows were returned to the same water bodies from which they were withdrawn; there are a number of other users  located downstream and upstream of plant locations.  2Volume of lake during low-flow conditions (10Q7).  3Flow at relevant locations during 10Q7 low-flow conditions. 4Discharge exceeds withdrawal due to rainfall captured in metered impoundments.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 102 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE &"
"MANAGEMENT APPENDIX TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY TYPE   AND DISPOSAL METHOD 2024 Hazardous Waste Generated (metric tonnes) 56.04 Non-Hazardous Waste Generated1 (metric tonnes) 31,056 Non-Hazardous Waste Diverted from Landfill (metric tonnes) 18,585 Universal Waste Generated (metric tonnes) 28.4 Universal Waste Recycled (metric tonnes) 28.4 Non-Hazardous Waste Diverted (percentage) 60% Universal Waste Diverted (percentage) 100% 1 Does not include trash and NonPCB used oil recycling. COAL COMBUSTION"
"PRODUCTS1 2024 CCP Production (million metric tonnes) 2.634 CCP Reuse 69.7% Owned Net Generation (MWh) 30,697,566 CCP Intensity (million metric tonnes/owned) 0.086 1 Does not include trash and NonPCB used oil recycling. TOTAL NUMBER AND VOLUME OF SIGNIFICANT SPILLS 2024 Company Number of Spills Causes Gallons LKE 1 Weather event 5 PPL Electric 2 Weather event 01 RIE 1 Third-party damage 117 RIE 1 Weather event 10 Total 5 132 1 All released oil was recovered.  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 103"
"INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX 2024 EMPLOYEE SAFETY  LG&E-KU PPL Electric PPL Services  RIE  PPL CORP (Overall)  Total Hours Worked 5,240,367 3,283,267 2,057,854 2,595,214 3,176,702 Number of Lost-Day Cases 12 5 0 18 35 Lost-Time Incident Rate 0.46 0.30 0 1.39 0.53 Recordable Incident Rate 1.45 1.28 0 2.62 1.41 Work-Related Employee Fatalities  0 0 0 0 0 2024 CONTRACTOR SAFETY  LG&E-KU PPL RIE  TOTAL  Total Hours Worked 7,016,193"
"4,330,776 1,183,738 12,530,707 Number of lost-day cases 9 3 5 17 Lost-Time Incident Rate 0.26 0.14 0.84 0.27 Recordable Incident Rate 1.03 0.88 1.35 1.01 Work-related fatalities  0 0 0 0  PPL 2024 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 104 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE & MANAGEMENT APPENDIX AVERAGE MONTHLY ELECTRIC BILL1 Operating Company  Residential bill   (500 kWh   per month usage) Residential bill   (1,000 kWh   per month usage) Commercial bill Industrial bill"
"Kentucky Utilities  $70.96 $125.00 $1,873.00 $37,416.00 Louisville Gas and Electric  $70.78 $127.33 $1,875.00 $38,311.00 PPL Electric Utilities  $89.01 $162.59 $1,547.00 $23,233.00 Rhode Island Energy  $137.53 $263.80 $2,955.42 $78,804.44 1Average electric bill data is based on the following typical bill assumptions:   Commercial: 40-kW demand and 14,000 kWh per month usage.   Industrial: 1,000-kW demand and 400,000 kWh per month usage. CUSTOMERS    LG&E-KU (Electric)  LG&E-KU (Electric)  LG&E"
"(Gas) LG&E (Gas) PPL Electric  PPL Electric  RIE (Electric) RIE (Electric) RIE (Gas) RIE (Gas) TOTAL TOTAL Residential  Residential  862,392 862,392 308,277 308,277 1,297,963 1,297,963 453,597 453,597 253,668 253,668 3,175,897 3,175,897 Commercial Commercial 151,857 151,857 26,900 26,900 188,721 188,721 65,861 65,861 25,297 25,297 458,636 458,636 Industrial Industrial 2,227 2,227 402 402 2,913 2,913 1,694 1,694 290 290 7,526 7,526 Municipals/Wholesale Municipals/Wholesale 3 3 Gas Transport Gas"
"Transport 92 92 92 92 TOTAL TOTAL 1,016,479 1,016,479 335,671 335,671 1,489,597 1,489,597 521,152 521,152 279,255 279,255 3,642,154 3,642,154 RELIABILITY  LG&E-KU PPL Electric RIE  Total US AVG1 SAIDI 87.10 90.25 60.79 84.15 123.9 SAIFI  0.83 0.66 0.76 0.73 1.022 CAIDI  105.51 136.53 79.89 114.61 121.3 SAIDI is the average outage duration (in minutes), excluding major events, per IEEE definition 1366.  SAIFI is the average number of interruptions per customer, excluding major events, per IEEE"
"definition 1366.   CAIDI represents the average time (in minutes) required to restore service after a sustained interruption   occurs, per IEEE definition 1366. 1Based on 2023 data AVERAGE GAS RATES ($/CCF) Operating Company  Residential rate Commercial rate Industrial rate  Louisville Gas and Electric  $1.45 $1.09 $0.70 Rhode Island Energy  $2.06 $1.23 $0.41 AVERAGE YEARLY GAS BILL Operating Company Residential average   yearly bill at 50 MMBtu Residential average   yearly bill at 100 MMBtu"
"Louisville Gas and Electric $745.30 $1,490.60 Rhode Island Energy $1,002.14 $2,004.28  PPL Corporation   |   Two City Center, 645 Hamilton Street, Allentown, PA 18101     |     www.pplweb.com"
