"2023  Corporate Responsibility &  S ustainability R eport  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report Letter From Ryan McInerney  2 FY23 Visa CR&S Performance Highlights  3 Visa CR&S Goals and FY23 Progress  4 About This Report  6 Forward-Looking Statements  7 OUR COMPANY Corporate Profile  9 Our Corporate Responsibility  & Sustainability Approach   10 Relevant Memberships   12 Select Corporate Recognition  12 EMPOWERING PEOPLE,   COMMUNITIES & ECONOMIES Empowering Small   & Micro"
"Businesses (SMBs)  14 Empowering People  18 Empowering Communities  21 ENABLING TRUSTED COMMERCE  & PROTECTING CUSTOMERS Payments Security   25 Cybersecurity  27 Responsible Data Use   29 Data Privacy  30 Responsible Use of Artificial Intelligence  31 Visa's AI Principles  33 Transaction Integrity   34 INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE Employee Talent, Growth & Learning  36 Inclusion & Diversity  39 Employee Engagement  43 Visa Total Rewards   45 Employee Safety & Security  47 Select Corporate Recognition"
"47 PROTECTING THE PLANET Sustainable Operations   50 Sustainable Movement  56 Climate Tech Solutions  62 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Corporate Governance   65 Ethics & Compliance   67 Engaging with Governments   68 Tax Compliance & Governance  69 Responsible Sourcing  70 Human Rights  71 APPENDIX  Greenhouse Gas Emissions   Verification Statement  74 Task Force on Climate-Related   Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Index  75 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index  76 Sustainability Accounting Standards"
"Board (SASB) Content Index  83 World Economic Forum (WEF)   Content Index  85 Performance Data Table  87 Table of Contents      Letter From Ryan McInerney   Reflecting on 2023, our role as an enabler of commerce,  connecting billions of buyers and sellers across more  than 200 countries and territories has helped us further  our purpose to uplift everyone, everywhere by being the  best way to pay and be paid. We have a responsibility to  use our scale, reach, and expertise to enable individuals,"
"businesses, and economies to thrive.  We continue to be committed to demonstrating the  important role we play in being a force for good by  operating responsibly and ethically. Our products and  solutions enable global commerce to happen and  expand the possibilities for the billions of consumers and  millions of merchants who use our solutions every day.  Throughout 2023, we made progress across our focus  areas in corporate responsibility and sustainability and in  this report, you will read"
"about how we delivered on our  purpose and values.  Empowering People, Communities  and Economies  Small and micro businesses (SMBs) are the foundation of  communities around the world. In 2020, we set a goal to  digitally enable 50 million SMBs. By the end of 2023, we  far exceeded this goal, digitally enabling nearly 67 million  SMBs, including 27 million in 2023 alone. We also remain  committed to supporting gender diverse and inclusive  small businesses globally. Visa Foundation committed"
"nearly $25 million in grant funding and $40 million in  impact investments to support gender diverse and  inclusive SMBs. Of the 67 million SMBs we have digitally  enabled, an estimated 23 million are women-led. We have  made great progress, but more work remains to provide  these SMBs with the access, tools, and resources required  to help them thrive.  Enabling Trusted Commerce  and Protecting Customers  The fraud landscape is more complicated and  sophisticated than ever, with threat actors"
"leveraging  innovative technologies to uncover new vulnerabilities  across the payment ecosystem. At Visa, we are  committed to safeguarding our customers and their  data from fraud and cyber attacks. Our technology  investments of over $11 billion over the last five years have  enabled us to prevent $40 billion in fraud-related losses in  2023, and to offer seamless and secure transactions across  our payment network. We also continued our work to  empower our customers and partners with the"
"knowledge  and tools they need to stay safe online and promote  security standards and best practices.  Investing in Our People  Our people are our greatest asset, and we are proud to  have a diverse, engaged, and talented global workforce.  We have created an environment where our employees  can thrive, learn, and innovate, and 95 percent of them  have told us they are proud to work for Visa. We are  continuously looking for ways to further enhance our  culture and ways of working. In 2023, we"
"refreshed our  Visa Leadership Principles, which define how we work  together, how we drive growth for our company, and  how we lead change in our industry. Our leadership  principles are: Lead courageously, Obsess about  customers, Collaborate as one Visa, and Execute with  excellence. We also invested in our employees' learning  and development, with more than 440,000 hours of  training delivered through Visa University and other Digital  Programs, along with benefits supporting their well-"
"being.  Protecting the Planet  We are committed to protecting the planet and reducing  our environmental impact. Across our global facilities  and data centers, we achieved a 24 percent reduction  in our scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions  from FY20 and maintained our carbon neutrality and  100 percent renewable energy use. We also supported  several initiatives to drive the transition to a lower-carbon  economy, including enabling sustainable commerce and  helping consumers and"
"businesses track and reduce their  carbon footprints.  Operating Responsibly  At Visa, we are committed to acting with integrity,  transparency, and accountability in everything we do.  For the twelfth consecutive year, Ethisphere named Visa  one of the World's Most Ethical Companies, honoring  our ethics and culture. We also earned a perfect score of  100 from the CPA–Zicklin Index for our corporate political  donation transparency and a “Trendsetter” title for the  eighth year running.  All of"
"these achievements reflect our unwavering  dedication to empower more people, businesses, and  governments to benefit from digital payments. As we look  ahead, we are excited about the opportunities that lie  before us. We look forward to continuing to work together  to advance our shared goals and create a more inclusive  and sustainable future for everyone, everywhere. And we  are confident that with our purpose, strategy, and values,  we can continue to deliver value and make a positive"
"difference in the world.  Sincerely,  Ryan McInerney  Chief Executive Officer, Visa  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 2                 FY23 Visa CR&S Performance Highlights  Delivering on our purpose: Uplift everyone, everywhere by being the best way to pay and be paid  Empowering People,   Communities & Economies   ~67M  small and micro business (SMBs) digitally enabled, exceeding our goal  to digitally enable 50 million SMBs by 2023  78K  employee volunteer hours"
"donated to strengthen communities in which  employees live and work  ~$25M and ~$40M  committed in grant funding and impact investments, respectively, by Visa  Foundation to support gender diverse and inclusive small businesses globally  Enabling Trusted Commerce   & Protecting Customers   $40B  in fraud-related losses prevented in 2023  Highest rating  in our sector from Gartner Consulting during 2023 cybersecurity review  $11B  invested in technology over the last five years, including to"
"reduce fraud  and enhance network security  Investing in Our People  95%  of responding employees report being proud  to work for Visa  Global pay equity  among women and men employees for the same work  440K  hours spent by Visa employees using available  learning resources available through Visa University  and Digital Programs  Protecting the Planet  24%  reduction of scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions since FY20  100%  renewable electricity use maintained for operations  A- score on 2023 CDP Climate"
"Change, representing  leadership in transparency and performance  Operating Responsibly  73%  Visa Board combined diversity for gender, race and  ethnicity dimensions  100%  rating received on CPA-Zicklin Index for Corporate Political  Disclosure and Accountability  12  consecutive years of inclusion on Ethisphere’s World’s  Most Ethical Companies list  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 3             Visa CR&S Goals and FY23 Progress   At Visa, we are committed to helping"
"address sustainable development challenges and create inclusive economies  and a thriving planet. We track progress toward corporate goals and map them to the United Nations (U.N.) Sustainable  Development Goals (SDGs), which provide a blueprint for governments, businesses and civil society organizations  to address the most pressing environmental and social issues globally.  Pillar  Focus Area  Visa’s Goal  Progress as   of end of FY23  Contribution  to the SDGs  Empowering People,  Communities"
"&  Economies  SMB Digital Enablement  Digitally enable 50M SMBs worldwide by the end of 2023  Employee Volunteering  Engage 25% of employees in volunteering in charitable opportunities  Visa Foundation  Continue to advance the Visa Foundation as a key pillar in fulfilling Visa’s  corporate purpose  Enabling Trusted  Commerce & Protecting  Customers  Cybersecurity  Protect the company and acquired entities from cyber threats  Innovate on cyber capabilities for the company and ecosystem to further"
"advance  our leadership position  indicates goal has either been met or exceeded as of September 30, 2023  Ecosystem Security  Build, deploy and automate a risk technology platform that protects the company  and the payments ecosystem  Advance risk management capabilities  Develop new solutions to reduce risk and crime while driving strong client  engagement and satisfaction  Continue to provide tools and capabilities to monitor and minimize fraud in the  payments ecosystem  2023 Corporate"
"Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 4                 Visa CR&S Goals and FY23 Progress (cont.)   Pillar  Focus Area  Visa’s Goal  Progress as  of end of FY23  Contribution  to the SDGs  Investing in Our People  Representation of  Underrepresented  Communities—  Workforce  Increase the number of underrepresented employees in the U.S.  Successfully complete Stand Together program and develop Inclusion & Diversity  strategy for FY24 and beyond  Ongoing  Pay Equity  Track, measure, evaluate"
"and report annually on pay equity, including 100%  of regular, active employees in fully integrated subsidiaries  Employee Experience  Improve the employee experience through a new employee value proposition   and refreshed recognition strategy  Roll out a new hybrid work model  Invest in talent attraction initiatives  Enhance our employee retention, development, training and total   rewards strategies  Protecting the Planet  100% Renewable  Electricity  Maintain 100% renewable electricity and"
"carbon neutral operations and advance  our aspiration of being a climate positive company  Greenhouse Gas  Emissions  By FY30, reduce absolute scopes 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 50%  from a FY20 baseline  By FY30, reduce absolute scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions by 42%  from a FY20 baseline  Ongoing  Operating Responsibly  Culture of Ethics  & Compliance  Support culture of ethics and compliance by requiring eligible employees to  annually complete training on our global policies,"
"programs and initiatives built on  the foundation of the Visa Code of Business Conduct and Ethics  indicates goal has either been met or exceeded as of September 30, 2023  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 5                     About This Report  Visa’s 2023 Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability (CR&S) Report describes our corporate responsibility-  and sustainability-related goals and work in five clusters:  1.  Empowering People, Communities & Economies  2."
"Enabling Trusted Commerce & Protecting Customers  3.  Investing in Our People  4.  Protecting the Planet  5.  Operating Responsibly  These five clusters are priority areas that are important to Visa and our stakeholders and through which we seek  to mitigate risk and to create value.  For more information on how Visa identifies these priorities through our materiality process, see the Corporate  Responsibility & Sustainability Approach section of this report. Additional resources on these"
"topics, as well as our  CR&S management, are available on our corporate website.  This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. Visa discloses relevant  metrics from the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Software & IT Services Sustainability Accounting  Standard, the World Economic Forum (WEF) Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics and the Task Force on Climate-Related  Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommended disclosures.  This report"
"focuses on Visa’s global CR&S goals and practices. We report data related to Visa’s fiscal year 2023  (October 1, 2022 – September 30, 2023) unless otherwise noted. In some cases, data and information related to our CR&S  priorities may include programs and activities underway or introduced in the 2024 fiscal year. This information is noted  throughout the report as relevant. All references to currency are in U.S. dollars, unless otherwise noted. This is Visa’s ninth  annual Corporate"
"Responsibility & Sustainability Report. Visa’s previous report was published in April 2023.  Please direct questions on this report or topics related to our CR&S disclosures to sustainability@visa.com.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 6   2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 7  Forward-Looking Statements  This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act  of 1995. Forward-looking"
"statements generally relate to future events or our future financial or operating performance,  such as statements regarding our CR&S and ESG priority areas, commitments and work, including goals, targets, metrics,  aspirations and related strategies. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements because they contain  words such as “anticipates,” “aims,” “aspires,” “believes,” “commits,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “may,” “projects,”  “plans,” “could,” “should,” “will,”"
"“continue” and other similar expressions. All statements other than statements of  historical fact could be forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, are not guarantees of future performance and  are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond our control and are difficult to  predict. These statements may be based on historic or current assumptions, estimates, standards, commitments,  methodologies,"
"targets, diligence, third-party information, internal control frameworks and currently available data,  which continue to develop and evolve. Numbers and percentages used in this report are estimates or approximations.  We describe risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied  by, any of these forward-looking statements in our SEC filings, including our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and  our subsequent reports on Forms"
"10-Q and 8-K. In addition, actual results may vary due to changes in the macroeconomic  and geopolitical environment, technology, weather patterns and climate, regulation and legislation, engagement with  stakeholders, energy prices and other unforeseen events or conditions. Except as required by law, we do not intend to  update or revise any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  Website references and hyperlinks throughout this report are"
"provided for convenience only, and the content on the  referenced websites is not incorporated by reference into this report, nor does it constitute part of this report. We assume  no liability for any third-party content contained on the referenced websites.   Our Company   2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 8           Corporate Profile  Visa is one of the world’s leaders in digital payments. Our purpose is to uplift everyone,  everywhere by being the best way to pay and"
"be paid. We facilitate global commerce  and money movement across more than 200 countries and territories among a global  set of consumers, merchants, financial institutions and government entities through  innovative technologies.  Since Visa’s early days, we have been in the business of facilitating payments between  consumers and businesses. We are focused on extending, enhancing and investing in  our proprietary advanced transaction processing network, VisaNet, to offer a single  connection"
"point for facilitating payment transactions to multiple endpoints through  various form factors. Now as a network of networks enabling global movement of money  through all available networks, we are working to provide payment solutions and services  for everyone, everywhere. Through our network, we offer products, solutions and  services that facilitate secure, reliable and efficient money movement for participants  in the ecosystem.  To learn more about Visa’s operating model and value chain,"
"please refer to the  Our Core Business section of the 2023 Annual Report.  2021–2023 Financial Results (GAAP) in millions  (except for per share data)  Fiscal Year Ended September 30  2021  2022  2023  Net revenue  $24,105  $29,310  $32,653  Operating expenses  $8,301  $10,497  $11,653  Operating income  $15,804  $18,813  $21,000  Net income  $12,311  $14,957  $17,273  Shareholder’s equity  $37,589  $35,581  $38,733  Diluted class A common stock earnings per share  $5.63  $7.00  $8.28  2023"
"Environmental, Social & Governance Report | 9               Visa at a Glance  Purpose  Uplift everyone, everywhere by being the best way  to pay and be paid  Headquarters  San Francisco  Regional Hubs  Foster City, Miami, Singapore, Dubai, London  144  Global Offices and Data Centers  ~28,800  Employ ees  Visa Network  (as of September 30, 2023)  • 14,500 financial institution clients  • More than 130 million merchant locations  worldwide1  ,2  • 4.3 billion Visa credentials  • 213 billion total"
"transactions processed3     • $15 trillion total payments and cash volume3   1. Including an estimated 30 million locations through payment facilitators,   which are technology providers that provide payment acceptance services   to merchants on behalf of acquirers.  2. Data provided to Visa by acquiring institutions and other third parties as of   June 30, 2023.  3. 12 months ended September 30, 2023.  Our Corporate Responsibility  & Sustainability Approach  Visa is committed to operating as a"
"responsible, ethical,  inclusive and sustainable company. As a trusted network  and global leader in digital payments, Visa strives to join  with clients, partners and other stakeholders to empower  people, businesses and communities to thrive.  Oversight  Visa believes in the importance of strong layers of  governance to ensure proper guidance and oversight  across our approach to Corporate Responsibility and  Sustainability (CR&S).  We manage these activities at a functional level across  our"
"strategic and operational areas, with executive  and Board oversight. Visa’s Vice Chair, Chief People  and Corporate Affairs Officer, leads the coordination of  oversight and development of our global CR&S efforts.  At the management level, a cross-functional group  of more than a dozen senior leaders contributes to  coordinating our CR&S strategy and reporting efforts.  At the Board level, the Nominating and Corporate  Governance Committee has formal responsibility to  oversee and review our"
"management of CR&S matters,  overall CR&S strategy, stakeholder engagement,  formal reporting and policies and programs in specific  areas, including environmental sustainability, climate  change, human rights, political contributions and  lobbying activities and expenditures, social impact and  philanthropy. For more on the responsibilities of the  Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee,  please refer to the Committee Charter.  In 2023, the Board, in full and in individual committees,"
"discussed a range of CR&S topics, including, but not  limited to:  • Leadership transition and succession planning  • Human capital management, including talent  recruitment and retention and inclusion and diversity  • Environmental sustainability and climate goals  and progress  • Board composition, skills and diversity  • Board risk oversight, including cybersecurity, data  privacy, artificial intelligence and brand and reputation  • Executive compensation program and philosophy  Materiality4"
"We conduct formal materiality analyses biennially to  gather the perspectives of both internal and external  stakeholders on CR&S issues. This is primarily done  through a combination of interviews, assessment of  stockholder feedback, employee surveys, customer and  client engagement and various other methods across  different business units and geographies. We integrate  these findings with analyses of voluntary frameworks  and standards, including GRI, SASB and TCFD, and the  expectations of"
"various ratings agencies. We also consider  relevant industry news, trends and thought leadership.  4. In this report, our use of the terms “material,” “materiality” and other similar terms refers to  materiality within the context of our CR&S programs and priorities. We are not using these  terms as they are used under the securities or other laws of the United States or any other  jurisdiction or as these terms are used in the context of financial statements and financial  reporting.  2023"
"Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 10               We believe our approach works to ensure that our CR&S  strategy and initiatives are focused on the issues most  impactful to our internal and external stakeholders, as  well as our long-term business success. While we take  action across the identified topics, we prioritize those  with the highest potential impact and importance to our  stakeholders and our business.  Our most recent materiality assessment was carried  out in"
"2021 and forms the foundation of our current  strategy. The results from this assessment, coupled with  additional inputs described above, validated findings  from prior years and reaffirmed that internal and external  stakeholders largely agreed with our identified priority  focus areas. We then set strategy around each issue, with  the objective of aligning our efforts based on relative  prioritization. Our focus is on those key topics identified as  priorities, which are covered in detail in"
"this report.  In 2023, we initiated our inaugural “double materiality”  assessment (DMA). We updated our methodology to  incorporate the 2021 GRI Standards’ emphasis on impact  materiality, the European Sustainability Reporting  Standards guidance on double materiality and additional  guidance on materiality assessment and value chain  analysis released by the European Financial Reporting  Advisory Group (EFRAG).  The process was designed to understand and evaluate  Visa’s financial and non-"
"financial impacts on the  environment and society, as well as the impact of  environmental and social factors on our financial  performance. We adapted our existing Enterprise Risk  Management (ERM) framework for evaluating risks to our  DMA methodology, involving our ERM team throughout  so that the DMA results can align with our ERM findings.  We anticipate completing the assessment in fiscal year  2024. We plan to review outcomes with executive  leadership and share related disclosures in"
"future reports.  Going forward, in accordance with EFRAG guidance,  Visa may determine that off-cycle updates to the DMA  are needed. This may be required if there are material  changes to Visa’s organizational and operational structure,  or if there have been material changes in various external  factors that could generate new or modify existing  impacts, risks and opportunities that could impact the  relevance of a specific disclosure.  Stakeholder Engagement  We improve our understanding of"
"stakeholder views and  concerns and evolve our CR&S strategic priorities across  our business through regular engagement with  our stakeholders.  We regularly engage our stakeholders in a variety of ways:  • Employees: employee surveys, town hall meetings,  manager/employee dialogue, employee resource  groups, messaging from senior leadership, digital  platforms and social media channels.  • Clients: client councils, payment forums, client surveys  and direct engagement.  • Investors: earnings"
"calls, annual stockholder meeting,  direct stockholder engagement, investor conferences,  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings,  disclosures posted on investor.visa.com and ratings  firm profiles.  • Government and policy official  direct engagement,  testimony before government bodies, participation as  panelists at policy gatherings and industry association  memberships and participation.  • Civil society organizations: direct engagement,  conferences and events, memberships"
"in initiatives and  individual partnerships.  • Local communities: supporting small and micro  businesses, employee giving and volunteering,  community giving from Visa and Visa Foundation and  humanitarian and disaster relief, direct engagement,  surveys and digital communication.  • Suppliers: supplier summits, supplier questionnaires  and sustainability management tools, direct supplier  engagement and memberships with supplier advocacy  and certification organizations.  Our Board and"
"management team greatly value the  opinions and feedback of our shareholders. We have  proactive, ongoing engagement with our stockholders  throughout the year focused on corporate governance,  corporate responsibility and sustainability and executive  compensation, in addition to the ongoing dialogue  among our stockholders and our Chief Executive Officer,  Chief Financial Officer and Investor Relations team on  Visa’s financial and strategic performance. In 2023, our  Lead Independent Director"
"also met with top investors  to discuss corporate governance, corporate responsibility  and executive compensation matters.  In 2023, our CR&S-focused engagement with our  shareholders included contacting our top 75 investors—  representing approximately 65 percent of our outstanding  Class A common stock—to discuss CR&S matters,  including corporate governance, corporate responsibility  and sustainability and executive compensation.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 11"
"We held CR&S-focused meetings with over 40  institutional shareholders representing approximately 25  percent of our outstanding Class A common stock and  provided the Nominating and Corporate Governance  Committee of the Board of Directors a quarterly update  on stockholder engagement and feedback.  Relevant Memberships  Visa actively participates in CR&S-related organizations  and peer networks focused on various sustainability  topics. Key memberships include:  • Business for Social"
"Responsibility  • Business Roundtable  • Centre for Sport and Human Rights  • Chief Executives for Corporate Purpose  • Clean Energy Buyers Association  • Corporate Eco Forum  • Council for Inclusive Capitalism  • Ellen MacArthur Foundation  • Internet Watch Foundation  • RE100  • Sustainable Brands  • World Business Council for Sustainable Development  • World Economic Forum  Select Corporate Recognition  Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index  2023, S&P Global  Sustainability Yearbook"
"2024, S&P Global  FTSE4Good Index  2024, FTSE Russell  World’s Most Ethical Companies  2024, Ethisphere  World’s Most Admired Companies  2024, Fortune  World’s Most Valuable Global Brands  2023, Brandz  Global RepTrak 100  2023, Reputation Institute  Global 500  2024, Brand Finance  MSCI  2024, A Rating  EcoVadis  2023, Silver Medal  3BL  2023, 100 Best Corporate Citizens  TIME  2023, World’s Best Companies  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 12     Empowering People,"
"Communities & Economies  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 13                               Visa is committed to advancing inclusive, equitable and sustainable economic growth for everyone, everywhere.  We focus on reaching people—as individuals, households and business owners—who have been historically  underserved. We aim to provide them with access to digital payments and other resources that can help improve  their economic livelihoods, businesses and communities.  Our"
"focus areas include:  • Empowering Small & Micro Businesses  • Empowering People  • Empowering Communities  Empowering Small &  Micro Businesses (SMBs)  According to the United Nations, micro, small and medium enterprises account for 90 percent of businesses globally,  60 to 70 percent of employment and 50 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) worldwide, making these businesses  vital contributors to the world’s economy.  At the end of 2023, Visa has digitally enabled nearly 67 million"
"SMBs—exceeding our global goal of 50 million SMBs.  We achieved this through our focus on three areas:  • Solutions  • Skills & Education  • Partnerships & Initiatives  Visa exceeded our global goal to digitally enable 50M small and  micro businesses—reaching nearly 67M, of which an estimated  23M are women-led.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 14                           Solutions  We continue to develop products and services designed  to advance digital equity and"
"economic empowerment  for SMBs, including:  • Visa Acceptance Cloud: A next-generation  cloud-based acceptance platform that provides a  point-of-sale (POS) solution designed to enable  business owners to convert Internet-connected  devices to POS devices, which establishes a low-cost  and scalable payments solution.  • Visa Direct: A payment solution that helps businesses  and individuals move money between billions of cards  and accounts worldwide. Businesses can use Visa Direct  through their"
"financial institutions to deliver fast, simple  and efficient payments to customers and employees.  Individuals can use Visa Direct to share costs, send gifts,  pay other individuals and support families around  the world.  • Tap to Phone: An app-based solution that simplifies  payment acceptance for merchants of all sizes. Tap  to Phone allows sellers to use a mobile application to  accept payments without any additional hardware,  which enables SMBs to connect more quickly to the  Visa network"
"and fast-tracks commerce for sellers  around the globe.  • Authorize.net: A solution that helps businesses create  flexible, creative digital commerce solutions, including  digitizing payments, establishing an online presence,  preventing fraud and streamlining operations.  • Cross-border Solutions: Visa is committed to  improving cardholders’ experience when making  purchases abroad or across borders. Recent acquisitions—  including Tink and CurrencyCloud—provide customers  with greater"
"transparency, flexibility and control when  making international payments or conducting business  in multiple currencies.  Skills and Education  At Visa, we believe that financial education and business  skills can drive digital inclusion, spur economic growth  and positively impact our community partners.  Visa’s Practical Business Skills educational portal offers  free resources and interactive tools to SMB owners.  The program focuses on helping growth-minded  entrepreneurs make confident,"
"informed decisions  to grow their business. More than 7 million unique  individuals and small business owners from over  180 countries accessed Visa’s Financial Education  resources in FY2023.  We leverage Practical Business Skills in initiatives  globally, including:  • Offering Online Small Business Hubs, which are  localized digital resource centers providing tools,  partner offers and guidance on starting, running and  growing digital-first SMBs.  • Partnering with ITC SheTrades to advance"
"women’s  economic empowerment across the AP and Gulf  regions through the Elevate your business training  program. This program includes three pillars:  community building and fostering regional synergies,  boosting skills and capacity of women entrepreneurs  and enhancing financial readiness and access to finance.  In Peru, we also expanded Enko, a mobile business  development platform, to continue promoting the  businesses of Venezuelans and Peruvians participating in  the World Council of"
"Credit Unions Economic Inclusion  Project’s (EIP) entrepreneurship development programs.  Enko is a training and resource platform that provides in- depth content and practical experiences.  Partnerships & Initiatives  Complementing our suite of solutions and skills, Visa also  pursues purpose-driven partnerships and initiatives in  support of SMBs to create positive business and societal  impact. We focus our efforts on helping both existing and  newly minted SMBs meet changing consumer demands"
"and embrace the digital future.  Visa Everywhere Initiative (VEI)  VEI is a global innovation program that tasks startups with  solving the payment challenges of tomorrow by further  enhancing their own product propositions and providing  visionary solutions for Visa’s network of partners.  This global competition has attracted nearly 15,000  applicants from more than 100 countries, and since  its 2015 inception, alumni have collectively raised over  $48 billion, highlighting the program’s"
"ability to identify  and foster innovation. VEI is also committed to supporting  diversity in the startup community as a platform for  brilliant innovators of all races, ethnicities, ages, genders  and sexual orientations. For example, in 2023 Visa  conducted three special edition VEI competitions in  partnership with StartOut. These competitions specifically  focused on uplifting and supporting underrepresented  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 15"
"communities across the U.S, and startups owned by  entrepreneurs from historically underrepresented groups.  She’s Next & Women’s  Economic Empowerment  Expanding women's inclusion in the financial system can  have significant economic benefits. At Visa, we strive  to increase the number of women who control capital,  women entrepreneurs who can access that capital  and women who can benefit from those businesses as  employees and customers.  Women entrepreneurs face many universal challenges."
"Visa, in collaboration with partners, has been working to  address these challenges by creating access to funding  and education for women-owned SMBs around the world  through the Visa She’s Next Grant Program.  In 2023, we expanded the She's Next Grant Program  into new countries, now including Australia, Canada,  Chile, Denmark, the Dominican Republic, Egypt, Estonia,  Finland, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Morocco, New Zealand,  Norway, Oman, Poland, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sweden, UAE,  the U.S."
"and Vietnam.  In the U.S., we also offered She’s Next in Fashion, which  supported 50 Black, Indigenous and People of Color  (BIPOC) women-owned SMBs in fashion and industries,  including through mentorship program access and  customer marketing and influencer campaigns.  Additionally, Visa partnered to host She’s Next New York,  an event designed to foster empowerment for women  entrepreneurs in New York City. The event included a  fireside chat with three-time Olympic gold medalist Kerri"
"Walsh Jennings, an SMB panel focused on what it means  to be a woman entrepreneur in today’s landscape and  how women entrepreneurs can break barriers across  industries to succeed.  In the UAE, Visa expanded its partnership with  Iminclusive, a disability-inclusive employment social  enterprise and the 2022 She’s Next Winner. In 2023,  Iminclusive contracted with Visa to support Visa’s  efforts to foster a diverse, inclusive workforce.  Together, Visa and Iminclusive hosted disability"
"inclusion workshops and extended the reach of the  Inclusive Digital Academy to include additional resources  delivered in English, Arabic and sign language. This  expanded partnership demonstrates Visa’s deep  commitment to women entrepreneurs.  We also continued our partnerships with Elas Prosperam  to support Black women-owned businesses in Latin  America. Through Elas Prosperam—which translates to  They Thrive—Visa conducted free online training events  and hosted one-on-one mentorship and"
"Pitch Days with  Black women business owners in Brazil. These events aim  to help women entrepreneurs develop their businesses  so that they can earn their own income and reach  financial independence.  Following the success of Elas Prosperam, CAIXA in Brazil  partnered with Visa to launch the CAIXA Visa Women  Entrepreneurs Challenge. The challenge was launched  in three favelas, or local neighborhoods, across Rio de  Janeiro, São Paulo and Salvador. In its first year, the  program provided"
"more than 110 hours of training and  mentorship facilitated by dedicated Visa and CAIXA  volunteers and culminated in three Pitch Days. Three  winning entrepreneurs from each city received a  combined total of R$ 60 thousand in seed capital along  with additional mentorship to guide their next steps and  investment decisions.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 16           As a result of this expanded partnership, Visa and CAIXA also launched the CAIXA Visa  Mulher Platinum"
"card. Each cardholder transaction generates a donation to Fundo Agbara,  a social impact NGO dedicated to fighting for human dignity and racial and gender equality  by fostering access to economic rights for all Black women in Brazil. This new product  provides cardholders with the opportunity to easily engage in social crowdfunding to  support women and promote financial inclusion in their region.  Grow Asia  Visa is committed to accelerating innovative, scalable financial inclusion solutions"
"throughout the regions in which it operates.  In 2023, Visa was elected as the co-chair of Grow Asia's Business Council. In this position,  Visa will, together with other companies in the Business Council, help Grow Asia and its  partners scale digital financial inclusion measures that promote livelihoods, resilience and  sustainability among smallholder farmers in Southeast Asia. Financial inclusion is pivotal  to fostering growth in South East Asia, where SMBs contribute to nearly 45 percent"
"of the  region’s GDP.  Visa has also made strategic funding commitments to Grow Asia’s flagship impact funds,  to focus on digital finance in smallholder farmer and women economic empowerment  in agriculture.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 17  Visa Minority Depository Institutions Accelerate  In 2022, Visa announced the launch of Visa Minority Depository Institutions (MDI)  Accelerate, a new program to help reduce economic disparities and expand access and  opportunity"
"in communities of color across the U.S. Through this multi-year program,  Visa will invest up to $100 million via deposits with MDIs to help catalyze lending. With MDI  Accelerate, Visa provides tailored insights and digital solutions to help financial institutions  in communities of color analyze and dissect their data—providing more comprehensive  insights that allow MDIs to better meet the needs of their clientele and the communities  they serve.  As of February 2023, Visa has directed $100"
"million in deposits in MDIs and was  estimated to enable $1 billion in new lending in Asian, Black, Hispanic and Native  American communities.  Visa continues to expand opportunities for minority-owned financial institutions through  the MDI Accelerate program. In 2023, Visa leveraged partnerships with the Alliance for  Innovative Regulations, the National Bankers Association Foundation and Inclusiv to  support MDIs in their efforts to further enhance their digital banking capabilities."
"Empowering People   Communities and economies thrive when all individuals  are included in the formal financial system and can benefit  from financial and digital access. The following initiatives  and partnerships focus on helping establish equitable  access to the financial and digital ecosystem for  everyone, everywhere.  Skills & Education  Financial Education Resources  Greater financial knowledge can empower people to  better manage their money, which can, in turn, improve  their quality"
"of life. Our award-winning global financial  literacy initiative, Practical Money Skills, strives to  link consumers, educators, financial institutions and  governments to the tools and resources they need.  Visa's Financial Education resources were accessed  in over 180 countries by more than 7 million individuals  during 2023.  Education Through Entertainment  In support of our commitment to uplift lives through the  power of sport, Visa offers an educational video game  using the global"
"platform of the FIFA World Cup™. The free  educational game challenges players to answer money  management questions at various levels of difficulty for  a chance to score a goal, bringing together entertainment  and education to improve financial literacy.  Additionally, Visa and Marvel Entertainment have  collaborated to release educational comic books,  which aim to teach families and young people about  personal finance. To date, we have distributed more  than 1.1 million comics in more than"
"20 languages.  FinEd50  In 2023, Visa continued to partner with the Council for  Economic Education to expand the reach of FinEd50,  a nationwide coalition striving to ensure every American  student has access to a financial education course.  The coalition focuses on advocacy to expand financial  education requirements for students at the state and local  level and teacher training to support teacher professional  development at scale. Since the coalition was established,  12 states have"
"adopted a requirement to teach financial  education in schools.  Visa Launches Fintech Accelerator Program in Africa  In 2023, Visa announced the launch of the new Visa Africa Fintech Accelerator program.  The program, designed to help enable Africa’s expanding start-up community through  expertise, connections, technology and investment funding, will enable up to 40 start-ups  each year to grow through a three-month intensive learning program.  The program will connect entrepreneurs with"
"business growth and mentoring  opportunities. Following program completion, Visa intends to make additional capital  investments in select participating businesses—further accelerating their commercial  launch through access to Visa technology and capabilities.  The launch of the Africa Fintech Accelerator program follows Visa’s 2022 pledge to invest  $1 billion in Africa’s digital transformation and drive inclusive growth.  Visa’s ongoing investments demonstrate our long-term commitment to"
"Africa’s growth  potential and aim to help enable greater access to digital payments as an entry point for  expanding formal financial services for individuals and merchants.  In Africa, an estimated 500 million people are without access to formal financial services,  less than 50 percent of the adult population made or received digital payments and more  than 40 million merchants do not accept digital payments.  Visa’s accelerator program will further support fintech growth and financial"
"inclusion in  Africa by strengthening the payment ecosystem and providing solutions to challenges  that are unique to the African continent.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 18                       Visa Economic Empowerment Institute  The Visa Economic Empowerment Institute (VEEI) is  an independent, non-partisan center of excellence for  research and public-private dialogue on payments policy.  VEEI’s overarching mission is to promote public policies  that empower"
"citizens, SMBs and economies, particularly  in VEEI's three primary focus areas: fostering digital  equity and inclusion, unlocking growth through trade  and imagining an open future for payments.  Visa established VEEI as the next step in our ongoing  mission to remove barriers to economic empowerment  and to create more inclusive, equitable economic  opportunities for everyone, everywhere. In FY23,  VEEI published thought leadership across topics of  digital equity, SMB empowerment through"
"access to  digitization and trade and remittance payments to help  governments advance public policies that create more  inclusive economies.  Partnerships & Initiatives  Inclusive Client Partnerships  Visa aims to increase engagement with clients focused  on improving financial inequities by delivering innovative  solutions to bring unbanked and historically underserved  communities into the financial ecosystem.  We also look to proactively secure mission-driven  partnerships with commercial"
"businesses that are diverse- owned, diverse-led or focused on diverse target markets.  These partnerships help to enable and inspire inclusive  culture and uplift communities through education.  We see these two initiatives as intertwined because  individuals and communities thrive when we uplift and  support historically underserved populations through  inclusive partnerships. Examples of Visa’s inclusive  partnerships include:  • ZMBIZI: empowering the next generation of mobile  merchants,"
"solopreneurs and gig economy workers  with a one-stop solution for all business-related financial  transactions. ZMBIZI is working to increase community  wealth by enabling and empowering millions of  Americans to “trade on the go” with the ability to accept  in-person, contactless payments on their smartphones.  • Totem: an Oklahoma-based, women-founded and -led  organization building a digital banking platform catering  to Indigenous peoples. Totem's goal is to begin a new  tradition of Native"
"wealth building by partnering with  tribes to provide culturally relevant financial products  and education, as well as streamlined access to  tribal benefits.  Visa Inclusive Fintech Accelerator  Visa, in partnership with Plug and Play, has announced the  selection of 21 diverse founders for their North American  Inclusive Fintech Accelerator program in 2023. The  initiative is designed to empower the burgeoning start-up  community by providing access to industry expertise,  connections,"
"technology and investment capital.  The three-month intensive program will offer participating  start-up opportunities for business growth and mentorship.  Upon completion there are opportunities for Plug and  Play to invest additional capital in a select group of  these businesses, thereby fast-tracking their market  introduction through the use of Visa's technology  and capabilities.  Visa's accelerator program, in alliance with Plug and Play,  intends to support fintech growth and financial"
"inclusion  worldwide by reinforcing the payment ecosystem and  addressing challenges exclusive to various global markets.  Digital Empowerment Program  In partnership with Human-I-T and local communities,  Visa’s Digital Empowerment Program provides  equipment and education to SMBs and individuals in  need. Resources distributed through the program include  refurbished laptops, foundational training on how to use  the equipment, financial training, one year of free tech  support and low-cost"
"broadband access.  This initiative launched in FY22 with 2,500 recipients in  Atlanta, Colorado and Toronto. In 2023, Visa expanded the  reach of the Digital Empowerment Program to additional  markets within the U.S. and Canada.  Visa’s Digital Empowerment Program also partnered  with CHOICE Humanitarian in 2023 to bring digital literary  services and refurbished laptops to residents in rural areas  of the Navajo Nation. CHOICE Humanitarian, who oversaw  project coordination, is a global"
"nonprofit that works with  and through rural communities around the world. The  collaboration was driven in part by employee members  of the Visa Natives, Allies, Tribal, and Indigenous Voices  Everywhere (NATIVE) ERG.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 19               Financial Empowerment  for Displaced People in Europe  Driven by multi-dimensional research findings on how  payments and financial services can support displaced  people, Visa began standing up a new"
"empowerment  program for forcibly displaced people in Europe1  in 2022.  The goal of the program is to harness the potential of  Visa’s assets and capabilities, ecosystem partnerships  and scale to support forcibly displaced people from the  onset of displacement to long-term integration in their  host countries.  Additionally, Visa supported the Sunflower Project,  a pan-European initiative of the Tent Partnership for  Refugees (Tent) that was focused on accelerating the  economic inclusion of"
"tens of thousands of Ukrainian  refugee women across the continent through better  access to jobs, training, upskilling, mentoring and more.  The Sunflower Project ran from June 2022 to June 2023,  and culminated in the Tent European Business Summit in  Paris. The Summit saw the most significant set of business  commitments made to advance the economic integration  of refugee women to date—including Visa’s own  commitment to grow Tent’s Refugee Women Mentorship  Program in Europe in partnership"
"with LinkedIn.  Beyond the Sunflower Project, Visa works with Tent  as a member and anchor company to develop specific  programs to help refugees connect to work and integrate  economically in Europe.  Indo-Pacific conomic Framework   for Prosperity Upskilling Initiative  In 2022, Visa pledged to deliver 500,000 upskilling  opportunities to women and girls in Indo-Pacific emerging  economies over ten years. These digital financial  education and skills trainings are being offered in support  of"
"the 2022-2032 Indo-Pacific Economic Framework  for Prosperity's Upskilling Initiative led by the U.S.  Department of Commerce.  Women in Sports  Sports present a significant opportunity for women  to pursue their dreams, both on and off the field. Visa  underscores our commitment to champion economic  empowerment through our efforts to empower women  at the intersection of business and athletics.  In 2023, Visa renewed its partnership agreement with the  U.S. Soccer Federation (USSF) to remain"
"the exclusive  payment services partner of both the U.S. Women’s and  Men’s National Soccer Teams. As a part of Visa’s push  for parity, the extension continues to ensure that at least  50 percent of our investment in soccer programming is  directed to the Women’s National Team and women’s  soccer initiatives.  Visa also supports women's soccer through our  longstanding partnership with FIFA, including the FIFA  Women’s World Cup™, FIFA U-17 Women's World Cup™  and FIFA U-20 Women's World Cup™."
"Through Visa’s partnership with FIFA, we announced  a first-ever extension of the Visa Player of the Match  athlete award in 2023. The award supported women  owned SMBs with $500,000 in total grant funding  across the 64 matches.  In early 2024, we announced Visa’s first new major global  sports sponsorship in more than 15 years. Visa will join the  newly formed Red Bull Academy Programme to champion  Visa Cash App RB in the Formula One Academy series.  This all-female driving series takes place"
"at seven select  tracks over the same weekend as the F1 races.  1. According to the UNHCR | Global Trends Report 2021, Europe received approximately  27 percent, or 7 million, of the world’s forcibly displaced people prior to 2022.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 20                 Empowering Communities   We are committed to using our time, talent and resources  to support and strengthen the communities and markets  in which we operate.  At the corporate level, Visa"
"engages locally in our  communities through:  • Community Giving  • Employee Giving and Volunteering  • Humanitarian and Disaster Relief  In addition, Visa Foundation focuses its philanthropic  efforts through:  • Community Giving  • Humanitarian and Disaster Relief  • Supporting SMBs  In 2023, Visa contributed approximately $20 million to  charities around the globe. Visa Foundation committed  approximately $25 million in grant funding and $40 million  in impact investments supporting gender"
"diverse and  inclusive small businesses globally. Additionally, Visa  Foundation funded approximately $9 million in employee  matching gifts.  FY23 Giving Highlights  ~$20M   Visa Total  ~$25M   Visa Foundation Total  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 21                     Employee Giving & Volunteering  Visa empowers our global workforce to give through  monetary and in-kind donations. In 2023, 92 percent  of Visa’s global employee base participated in impact  programs"
"through activities such as donating,  volunteering and directing loans to SMBs through  the Visa Foundation’s partnership with Kiva, a financial  inclusion nonprofit.  Visa & GivingTuesday  Started in 2012 and fueled by the power of social media  and collaboration, GivingTuesday is a global movement  that encourages people to do good and “unleash the  power of radical generosity.”2 Visa Foundation celebrates  GivingTuesday by amplifying Visa employees’ donations  with a double-matching"
"commitment of up to $1,000.  In 2023, more than 4,800 employees united to support  this special day of collective compassion, harnessing  Visa Foundation’s match to generate $7.1 million in support  for more than 4,200 organizations around the world.  Dollars for Doers  Employees can earn $10 per hour spent volunteering to  contribute to charities they support (up to $500 per year).  Additionally, each quarter, two employees from each  Visa region are awarded $1,000 to give back to a charity  of"
"their choice. In 2023, Visa issued nearly $800,000 in  rewards through Dollars for Doers for employees logging  volunteer hours.  Community-Based Volunteering  Visa leverages volunteer leadership councils, volunteer  time off and team-based volunteer events to foster global  volunteerism in the communities where we live and work.  Visa offers two days of paid time off each year to eligible  employees to volunteer for the charity or activity of their  choice during work hours. Additionally, team"
"volunteering  opportunities are organized, encouraged and supported.  We continue to offer opportunities for virtual volunteering.  We also engage voluntary Community & Volunteering  Councils around the world to facilitate our programs while  also providing employees with leadership development  opportunities.  In FY23, approximately 9,600 employees from  69 countries volunteered a total of 78,000 hours.  Kiva Campaign  Through a Visa Foundation grant of over US $1.5 million  to Kiva, a"
"financial inclusion nonprofit, Visa employees  have also been able to help increase financial access for  underserved small and micro businesses (SMBs) around  the globe for the past four years.  As part of this program, Visa employees help designate  loans to SMBs, amplifying Kiva’s work and involving  employees in Visa Foundation’s mission of supporting  inclusive economies by prioritizing the growth of gender- diverse and inclusive SMBs. Since 2020, Visa employees  have collectively directed"
"over $4.7 million in loans to  over 90,000 SMBs in 56 countries, of which 88 percent  are women-owned. In 2023, 85 percent of employees  participated in the Kiva Campaign, loaning $1.2 million  to over 19,400 SMBs.  Bridge for Billions and Digital Boost  In 2023, Visa also continued our mentorship programs  with Bridge for Billions and Digital Boost. Bridge for  Billions is an online program that connects Visa employees  with small business owners from underrepresented  communities worldwide."
"Over a five-month incubation  period, Visa employees provide 1-to-1 mentorship to  these entrepreneurs. Together, they work on defining  the business strategy, financial projections, and impact  assessments, as well as creating growth plans for the  ventures. Digital Boost is a mentoring platform through  which Visa employees are also able to mentor SMBs and  charity founders, sharing key digital skills to help their  businesses thrive.  Pro Bono Volunteering  In 2023, Visa’s Legal, Ethics &"
"Compliance team  participated in a number of pro bono activities, providing  service to charitable organizations and clients on issues  relating to immigration, LGBTQ+ rights, veterans’ rights,  housing, support for SMBs and more. This included  participation by more than 145 legal professionals  during Visa’s 2023 Global Pro Bono Week, a one-week  event in which Visa team members around the world  volunteered to support 20 pro bono opportunities  across 13 global locations.  2."
"https://www.givingtuesday.org/  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 22   Visa Foundation  Small and micro businesses are the backbone of local  economies, promoting innovation, creating jobs and  fostering upward mobility. Visa Foundation partners with  local organizations to invest in SMB owners, creating ripple  effects for their families, employees and customers.  In 2024, Visa Foundation published its first Impact Report  detailing collective impact since 2017. For"
"comprehensive  information on Visa Foundation, please refer to the  Visa Foundation Impact Report.    3.  Commitments and impact from October 2017 through September 2023 based on annual  reporting from partners.  $120.5 million in investments by partnering with 24 organizations, and $80 million in grants  by partnering with 50 organizations, leading to $200.5 million in total commitments from  Visa Foundation. These commitments contributed to partners whose work results in over  $2 billion of"
"capital invested in local communities, over 4 million small business supported  and over 1 million jobs supported.              TOTAL COMMITMENT3  $200.5M  INVESTMENTS  $120 .5M Partnering with 24  organizations    GRANTS  $80M  Partnering with 50  organizations  4M+  Small businesses  supported  CONTRIBUTING TO PARTNERS WHOSE  WORK RESULTS IN  $2B+ of capital invested in local communities  1M+  Jobs supported  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 23     Enabling Trusted"
"Commerce  & Protecting Customers  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 24                                   As a network of networks,  we enable the global movement  of money and are working to  provide payment solutions and  services for everyone, everywhere.  We facilitate secure, reliable and  efficient money movement among  consumers, financial institutions  and merchants. We continuously  strive to identify and invest in  new capabilities, work with clients  to help"
"secure the payments  environment and take action to  improve the security, integrity  and resiliency of our network.  Payments Security   At Visa, we aim to increase transaction approvals so that  businesses can thrive while customers are protected  and satisfied.  We closely monitor the payments security landscape and  in 2023, we identified three major trends that are driving  payments security:  • As new flows and payment methods expand, fraudsters  can attack in more ways; barriers to commit"
"fraud are  reduced through more sophisticated and accessible  technologies.  • Fraudsters are migrating to earlier stages of the  transaction lifecycle by fabricating identities rather  than stealing them and establishing years of  “legitimate” history before maxing out lines of  credit and disappearing.  • Artificial intelligence (AI) is powering innovation in  fraud capabilities, particularly in social engineering  by establishing deepfake models of close friends  or family members.  Over the"
"past five years, Visa has invested over $11 billion  in technology, including to reduce fraud and enhance  cybersecurity resilience. Visa employs specialists  dedicated to protecting Visa’s network from malware,  zero-day attacks and insider threats 24x7x365.  Visa also deploys AI-enabled capabilities and always-on  experts to protect our network, proactively detecting  and preventing billions of dollars of attempted fraud.  We invest in innovation to build and maintain trust for our  network"
"and the broader payments ecosystem. We strive  to continue to evolve our security capabilities and work  to reduce system-wide global fraud.  At Visa, our approach to security focuses on three key areas:  • Credentials security: the ability to secure transactions  and limit financial losses for ecosystem participants.  • Operational resiliency: the ability to maintain a  network that is always on and helps participants identify  risks, improve decision making and transact efficiently.  •"
"Ecosystem integrity: the ability to identify and stop or  mitigate illegal activity.  We measure the effectiveness of our approach to  payments security regularly. We monitor metrics like  fraud rates for Card Present and Card Not Present (CNP)  scenarios as well as transaction volumes that leverage  secure technologies, such as 3-D Secure or Tokenization.  In FY23, Visa evolved our dispute program, making it easier  to fight first-party misuse, also known as friendly fraud or  first-party"
"fraud, for CNP scenarios. The change could save  small businesses over $1 billion in losses globally over the  next five years, in turn benefiting the entire ecosystem  of consumers and merchants. We also introduced the  Digital Authentication Framework to increase approval  rates for CNP transactions, lower fraud, reduce friction  and improve the consumer user experience.  Visa is also investing in our Risk-as-a-Service (RaaS)  advisory function, through which we help clients tailor  their"
"security posture to their unique needs, including  the ability to outsource the execution of selected fraud  mitigation and prevention activities to Visa.  We engage with ecosystem participants to gather  perspectives, benchmark our thinking, inform our  security investments and improve the operational  resilience of our network.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 25         Visa manages payments security risk through regular  analysis of trends and threats, including"
"biannual  publication of a fraud disruption threats report and annual  publication of a payments security trends overview.  Protect, Defend, Evolve,  Tailor Framework  Digital payments offer vast opportunities for business  growth, and with this opportunity comes security  threats. Visa works hard to ensure that security, identity  protection and dispute prevention keep pace with  evolving challenges. Our multi-layered approach connects  sellers and issuers to dynamic, data-rich solutions that"
"help balance fraud reduction, dispute prevention and  increased approvals so that businesses can thrive and  customers are protected and satisfied.  Visa enables growth by letting each ecosystem participant  focus on what they do best. Merchants want to spend  time and energy building their product and service  offerings and need seamless, secure and easy-to-adopt  payment solutions. Cardholders want to transact with  confidence and ease. Issuers, fintechs, processors,  payments facilitators and"
"other ecosystem participants  also have unique value propositions.  The Visa Intelligent Security framework offers our  ecosystem partners dynamic, data-rich solutions that  help balance fraud reduction and dispute prevention.  Visa secures the payment ecosystem with  a four-pronged approach:  • Protect against potential threats: We champion  industry-wide payment security standards, establish  comprehensive solutions to secure the full transaction  lifecycle and guide stakeholders to support"
"the use of  secure technologies and practices.  • Defend against ongoing attacks: We monitor  ecosystem participants for vulnerabilities, use  actionable intelligence to detect and alert against fraud  and implement compliance programs to remediate  excessive fraud, disputes or illegal activity.  • Evolve capabilities in a shifting landscape: We secure  new channels and flows from onset of product and  system development and share recommended best  practices for ecosystem participants to benefit"
"from  network-level lessons learned.  • Tailor risk management to unique needs: We  offer a suite of capabilities for clients across the risk  management value chain including through our RaaS  capabilities, delivered as self-service modules or as a  managed service via our Risk Operations Center.  We continue to work with clients across regions to  accelerate the adoption of Intelligent Security solutions.  $40 billion in fraud-related losses  prevented in 2023.  2023 Corporate Responsibility &"
"Sustainability Report | 26                         Cybersecurity   Recognizing that the cyber threat landscape continues  to increase in sophistication and complexity, Visa is  committed to championing cybersecurity within our  operations. Our cybersecurity organization protects our  information and technology assets by operationalizing  zero-trust architecture and deploying defense-in-depth  principles. We use an established risk framework and  assessment methodology to identify cybersecurity"
"risks and associated business impacts. In 2023, Visa’s  security program once again achieved the highest  capability maturity rating within its category from Gartner  Consulting, outperforming peer organizations within the  highly-regulated financial services sector.  Visa makes continuous investments to improve our  cybersecurity capabilities. Our goal is to maintain zero- breach operations for Visa applications and data, both  inside and outside our data centers. We continue to  implement new"
"technologies and processes to enhance  our security posture against emerging threats. We also  build and use AI solutions to prevent, detect and respond  to cyber threats, as part of a layered, defense-in-depth  strategy. Additional improvements include enhancing  our architecture, expanding our data protection  program to include unstructured data and continuing  to refine our robust vulnerability management and  patching capabilities. Visa developers build security into  applications as part"
"of a secure software development  lifecycle. We augment our core detection capabilities  with a proactive approach, where we “hunt” for traces  of malicious activity to intercept would-be attackers.  In addition to vendor offerings, Visa uses innovative  proprietary solutions to support cybersecurity and  antifraud capabilities. Customized Visa-engineered  solutions include Visa Identity Behavior Analytics, which  helps defend against digital identity fraud by providing  strong consumer"
"authentication.  No single technology in isolation can stop every threat.  We deploy multiple redundant layers of preventive and  detective technologies across our network and data layers  to help mitigate risk. In the event cyber criminals succeed  in breaching one layer of our defenses, the layers beyond  are designed to remain secure and protected by  additional controls.  This layered defense-in-depth strategy is supported  by robust governance processes that involve regular  oversight by"
"and reporting to the Board and management.  Specifically, the full Board receives updates on Visa’s  cybersecurity program twice per year from our President  of Technology. In addition, the Board’s Audit and Risk  Committee holds responsibility for oversight of the  company’s Cybersecurity program, annually conducts an  in-depth review of the program and reviews any material  changes to the information security strategy. The Audit  and Risk Committee also receives quarterly reports from  our"
"Chief Information Security Officer on the state of  Visa’s Cybersecurity program, including relevant metrics  and threat intelligence, as well as reports on internal  audit findings and external assessments of our  Cybersecurity program.  The following sections describe some of the components  we use to enact our cybersecurity strategy across  the business.  Policy & Training  The Visa Information Security Policy charters the Key  Controls, Visa’s security standards framework. Based  on the"
"ISO/IEC 27002, Payment Card Industry Data  Security Standards and the National Institute of Standards  and Technology Cybersecurity Framework, the Key  Controls define the requirements for the protection of  Visa information and technology assets. The framework  is organized in a hierarchical structure which includes  Domains, Control Categories and Standards. All staff,  including employees, contractors and contingent workers,  are required to comply with the Key Controls.  The Cybersecurity"
"Governance, Risk and Compliance  organization is responsible for the ongoing administration  of the Key Controls, with specific oversight provided  by the Cybersecurity Policy team. The Key Controls  are reviewed at least annually and updated as needed  to address changes to business activities, industry  or regulatory requirements and new threats  or vulnerabilities.  All new staff (including employees, contractors and  contingent workers) are required to complete Key  Controls Compliance"
"Training within the first 45  days of their start date. Staff members must then  successfully complete Key Controls Compliance training  at least annually thereafter. To complete training, staff  members must attest they have read and understood  the information security requirements and associated  responsibilities. In 2023, 100 percent of eligible employees  completed mandatory Key Controls training.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 27       All managers are responsible"
"for promoting security  throughout their organizations, embedding security in  business processes and including security requirements  in the planning and execution of business initiatives.  Visa managers are responsible for ensuring that staff are  aware of Visa security policies and procedures, including  any relevant Technical or Design Security Requirements  associated with their job function. Managers with  staff members performing specific security functions  are responsible for ensuring"
"that their staff members  are aware of and competent to perform any assigned  security duties and responsibilities. Security duties may  include how to report incidents, when and how to open a  Security Assessment or engage the Third-Party Lifecycle  Management Program (TLMP). TLMP helps manage  supplier risk, administer remediation requirements for  vulnerabilities and security findings and implement the  operation of any specific controls, security activities or  procedures. Additionally,"
"managers must ensure that staff  complete all required and any additionally designated  cybersecurity training.  In addition to mandatory compliance training, Visa’s  cybersecurity team conducts multiple security awareness  and training activities throughout the year to promote  good cyber-hygiene and familiarity with Visa processes  and tools. The cybersecurity team conducts simulated  phishing campaigns periodically throughout the year and  offers various instructor-led and e-training"
"curricula. We  also publish original cybersecurity awareness content to  employees across multiple enterprise channels covering  themes such as social engineering and cybersecurity best  practices. Each October, Visa observes Cybersecurity  Awareness Month with a month-long, enterprise-wide  multi-channel messaging campaign, including live and  virtual events, original online content and training. Key  themes in 2023 were social engineering, secure AI and  data use and supply chain risk.  In"
"2023, we introduced the Visa Payments Learning  Program, designed to upskill employees, students,  clients and military personnel through a series of training  courses and certifications. The program’s primary focus  is payments cybersecurity and is a direct response to  the White House’s National Cybersecurity Strategy  Implementation Plan and its call for businesses to create  more pathways into cybersecurity. Currently available in  the U.S. with plans to expand globally, the Visa Payments"
"Learning Program is comprised of several cross-functional  programs, including Visa University and talent programs  that allow for diverse avenues of upskilling and creating  new career entry pathways for untapped communities.  Learn more in the Investing in Our People chapter  of this report.  Adaptive Resiliency  We regularly conduct cross-functional response and  resiliency exercises involving internal teams and external  partners and agencies. At Visa, our comprehensive digital"
"transformation addresses cyber resiliency by continuously  looking for changing attack surfaces, risk management and  evolving threats.  We monitor and protect our critical assets in real time,  including networks, computers, digital assets and  databases from attacks, damage or unauthorized access.  We continue to build on our Zero Trust priorities with  increased intelligence-led activities and enhanced alert  and detection strategies. We also leverage AI and deep  learning technology to"
"monitor our network, understand  the threats aimed at our company, enhance supply chain  risk management and strengthen threat detection and  response. Our efforts to mitigate risks, including malware  attacks, data breaches and phishing scams, focus on  continuous cybersecurity threat identification.  Visa is committed to improving our security posture as  the threat landscape evolves. Visa also shares threat  intelligence and best practices while collaborating with  industry peers, clients and"
"competitors to stay up to  date on the latest cybersecurity trends. These inputs  support constant refinement of our security controls.  Alongside the latest threat intelligence, we incorporate  lessons learned from response and resiliency exercises to  improve our security posture. Furthermore, we continue  to innovate by engineering preventive and detective  solutions to advance the capabilities of our sensors,  automated responses and visualization tools.  Audits & Third-Party Certifi ations"
"To promote the effectiveness of our cybersecurity  approach and controls, we conduct multiple internal and  external audits of our IT infrastructure and applications  throughout the year. Our systems are subject to  examination by the Federal Banking Agencies and other  regulators from across the globe. Examples of external  reviews include Payment Card Industry Data Security  Standard, Statement on Standards for Attestation  Engagements (SSAE-18) and International Standard  on Assurance"
"Engagements 3402.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 28                     2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 29  Responsible Data Use   We recognize consumers are concerned about how their  data is collected, used, shared and kept secure. When  it comes to data, our focus is simple: to use the data  entrusted to us to use, consistent with our Data Values,  to enable individuals, businesses and economies to thrive.  Visa relies on data to improve the"
"security and value of  the Visa network, better serve our clients and partners,  protect consumers from fraud and drive positive impact  for communities and economies around the globe.  We have adopted policies and practices designed to  embed accountability and enable responsible execution  for data practices throughout the organization. We utilize  the expertise of dedicated security, privacy and data  professionals working around the world.  Data Values  The Visa Data Values emphasize our"
"commitment  to responsible data use and outline the principles we  apply when we collect, use and share consumer data.  Data innovation is a vital component of Visa’s strategy—  and is in everything we do—built on our over 60-year  legacy of responsible data stewardship. The Visa Data  Values include:  • Security: Individuals and businesses should have  confidence that Visa payment data is safe. There is no  higher priority for Visa than safeguarding those who  use our products, services and"
"network.  • Control: Visa will always strive to provide simple  explanations regarding how data may be used and to  empower individuals with easy processes to manage  use of their data.  • Value: Data use at Visa should benefit individuals,  businesses and economies. We strive to do this by  delivering greater security, financial inclusion and  consumer convenience.  • Fairness: Visa’s application of data and data-driven  insights aims to be fair and inclusive and avoid  discrimination. Visa"
"will strive to make our models  explainable, accurate and safe.  • Accountability: Visa’s approach to data use should  be consistently applied at all levels of the organization  and be embedded through process, training and  management responsibilities.  The application of these principles may evolve over time,  adapting to new privacy and data-related regulations  and standards that may emerge, based on the needs  of consumers, businesses and economies.  As Visa’s business moves into new"
"technologies, payment  flows and value-added services, we are committed to  engaging with policymakers and regulators worldwide  to participate in the development and harmonization  of data focused laws, regulations and standards.           Data Privacy  Visa operates one of the world’s largest payment  networks, and respecting privacy is central to supporting  our purpose to uplift everyone, everywhere by being the  best way to pay and be paid. Visa has a Global Privacy  Program to support the"
"appropriate collection, use and  sharing of personal information. Our Privacy Program is  centered on key privacy principles that allow the Privacy  Program to adapt alongside Visa’s global footprint, taking  into account industry benchmarks and best practices in  addition to evolving laws and regulations.  Visa’s Chief Privacy Officer leads Visa’s Global Privacy  Office, comprising dozens of privacy professionals around  the world. The Global Privacy Office works closely with  several cross-"
"functional teams and internal governance  bodies, including the Cybersecurity team and Global  Data Office.  The Corporate Risk Committee and the Visa Audit and  Risk Committee oversee Visa’s Global Privacy Program  and the risks related to data privacy, including compliance  with current and emerging data protection laws  around the world. Our commitment to privacy and  data protection builds trust and confidence with our  employees and clients, enables us to innovate responsibly  and protects"
"our brand. At Visa, we recognize that data  is a powerful tool that catalyzes innovation, enhances  customer experiences, promotes new value to consumers  and safeguards consumers from fraud.  Our focus is simple: to use the data entrusted to us  in a responsible and compliant manner to benefit  consumers, support innovation and help businesses  and economies grow.  We strive to be transparent about our data practices.  To learn more about how Visa collects, uses and shares  Personal"
"Information, as well as the privacy choices we  offer, please refer to our Visa Global Privacy Notice.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 30             Responsible Use of Artificial Intelligence At Visa, we are committed to exploring new applications  of predictive and generative AI that could transform how  we serve our customers, partners and stakeholders in  accordance with Visa's AI Principles.  We are not new to AI— in fact, we have longstanding  experience with the"
"power of AI in securing and protecting  our payments against fraud. In 1993, Visa became the  first network to deploy AI-based technology to manage  risk and mitigate fraud, pioneering the use of AI models in  payments. Over the last 10 years, Visa has spent more than  $3 billion on AI and data infrastructure to enable safer,  smarter money movement and to proactively identify and  prevent fraud.  We believe using AI responsibly can usher in an era of  payments that simplifies and democratizes"
"access to  financial services.  Today we have nearly 140 AI models in production,  powering over 40 products and solutions, including:   • Cybersource Decision Manager: Fraud and risk  assessment tool that applies advanced machine  learning to historical transaction data to spot patterns.  • Smarter Stand-In Processing: Real-time deep learning  model that helps improve payment experiences during  outages by mirroring issuer approvals with up to 95  percent accuracy.  We see several areas of"
"potential development in  generative AI, including:  • Engineering efficie y: Visa has conducted large-scale  pilots of generative AI capabilities for day-to-day coding  and testing of our software and is now rolling this out  broadly to our developers. Generative AI will allow our  developers to benefit from sophisticated AI capabilities  at scale.  • Employee productivity: Visa has deployed a secure  instance of GPT-4 to employees, which can help with  content summarization, research, drafting"
"and analysis,  enabling all of us to focus more of our time on strategic,  high-value activities that drive growth for our business  and for our clients.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 31           • New products and services: Visa has doubled down  on our use of generative AI and several thousand  colleagues  are now working on our new data and AI  platforms, helping us to enable even more sophisticated  models in our future product offerings.  Perhaps the most"
"exciting application of generative  AI will be innovating for our clients and the payments  ecosystem at large. We are already working on multiple  fronts, collaborating to enhance and improve commerce  with generative AI across the consumer shopping journey.  Visa Consulting and Analytics also recently announced  its launch of an AI advisory service to help our customers  strategically navigate emerging technologies in their  operations.  In October 2023, we announced the launch of a new  $100"
"million generative AI ventures initiative to invest  in venture-backed startups focused on developing  generative AI technologies and applications that will  impact the future of commerce and payments. This  initiative will be managed by Visa Ventures, the global  corporate investment arm of Visa, which has been  investing in and partnering with companies driving  innovation in payments and commerce since 2007.  In December 2023, we announced the commercial launch  of Visa Provisioning"
"Intelligence (VPI), an AI-based product  designed to combat token fraud at its source. VPI uses  a segment-level supervised machine learning model to  identify patterns in past token requests across device,  e-commerce and card-on-file tokens to help predict the  probability of token provisioning fraud. Available as a  value-added service for clients, VPI uses machine learning  to rate the likelihood of fraud for token provisioning  requests, helping financial institutions prevent fraud in  a"
"targeted way and enable more seamless and secure  transactions for Visa cardholders.  Good data makes for good AI. As such, data governance is  critical to the development of responsible AI systems. This  includes incorporating privacy-by-design approaches and  complying with applicable data protection laws so that  data inputs of AI systems are lawfully collected, relevant  and fit-for-purpose. Given the rapid rise of generative  AI over the past year, we recently established an AI  governance"
"function and evolved our cross-functional  processes to integrate and champion the Visa AI Principles  across our review of AI use cases. The AI governance  framework is designed to interact with, and complement,  the data policy and privacy assessment processes at Visa.  This layered approach helps facilitate comprehensive,  global, multi-stakeholder reviews of AI systems deployed  by Visa, in line with current and emerging AI regulations  and client, consumer and regulator expectations.  We"
"also recognize that the use of AI is not without risk.  Visa’s AI Governance function promotes adherence to  Visa’s AI principles. Visa conducts risk-based monitoring of  its model inventory to assess that the models are fit-for- purpose and perform at acceptable standards. As part  of this work, Visa reviews modeling techniques and sets  technical standards for model performance to mitigate  model drift and explain the models’ purpose   and functionalities.  Visa’s internal AI Governance"
"function and committees  help apply governance and data safeguards to our use  of AI, and we conduct cross-functional stakeholder  discussions on emerging AI regulations. We also  collaborate with international standards organizations,  government entities, other companies, civil society  organizations and academic researchers to deepen our  understanding of AI risks and effective risk migration  strategies. Establishing consumer trust around AI,  emerging technology and data is vital. Visa has"
"been  committed to sustainable innovation by creating a  governance structure that prioritizes the responsible  stewardship of data—a core foundation for responsible  AI. Our data values—security, control, value, fairness and  accountability—underpin Visa’s approach to emerging  technologies and help cultivate and maintain the trust that  drives Visa’s reputation as a leading payments network.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 32                                     Visa’s"
"AI Principles  As an extension of the well-established Visa Data Values, Visa’s AI Principles  offer guiding principles for the s afeguards we strive to achieve and apply   to the development, deployment and assessment of AI systems and use  cases across Visa. Security  In pursuit of innovation, Visa strives to deploy AI systems with confidentiality,  integrity and reliability to help ensure robust levels of security and safety for the  individuals, businesses and partners participating in its"
"payments ecosystem.  Through appropriate audit and monitoring across the lifecycle of AI systems,  Visa aims to uphold quality, prevent misuse, protect data privacy and security  and detect and respond to potential adverse events.  Control  Visa aspires for transparency and appropriate consumer choice and control  over data in its AI systems, including explaining the purpose, design, inputs  and outcomes of its AI systems. Visa works to deploy AI systems that respect  privacy by design, with"
"controls and governance to create a trusted,  confidence-inspiring, ecosystem for individuals, businesses and partners.  Value  Visa invests in and employs AI to drive innovation and support its mission  to uplift everyone, everywhere by being the best way to pay and be paid.  Visa seeks to create value for individuals, businesses and economies by  innovatively deploying AI systems that promote financial inclusion,  consumer convenience and benefits across the payments ecosystem.  Fairness  In"
"developing AI systems, Visa pursues programs to promote responsible  innovation and the ethical use of AI, protect individual rights and build societal  confidence in AI. Visa aims to deploy fair AI systems by reviewing potential  risks, unanticipated biases and adverse impacts throughout the AI lifecycle.  Visa strives to act ethically and minimize the risk of unfair outcomes through  human oversight of design, data, production output and intended purpose  of all AI systems.  Accountability"
"While striving toward the full potential of AI systems, Visa works to align decisions  made or informed by AI with the organization’s values and clearly define roles and  responsibilities across technology, operational and management stakeholders.  Visa is accountable for its use of its ecosystem participants’ data in AI systems  and strives to utilize privacy-enhancing techniques to safeguard all stakeholders’  privacy. Visa educates and trains employees to drive responsible AI use and"
"innovation to uphold Visa’s commitment to responsible AI.  Additional information can be found in the Responsible AI section of  Visa's corporate website.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 33         Transaction Integrity   Visa is committed to maintaining the integrity of our  payment system, and we do not tolerate the use of our  network and products for illegal activity.  Visa has longstanding rules, processes and a robust  compliance program designed to uphold the"
"integrity of  our network. Our approach to protecting the network is  tethered to the law and grounded in the Visa Rules. It is  Visa’s policy to follow the law everywhere we do business.  We do not make moral judgments on legal purchases  made by consumers and we respect the rightful role of  lawmakers to make decisions about what is legal and what  is not. However, when participants on our network are  unable to meet our requirements, including compliance  with applicable law, we levy"
"financial penalties and, based  on the circumstances, suspend or terminate them from  our system.  Visa Integrity Risk Program  Visa continues to enhance and evolve our risk programs  to meet the needs of a constantly changing payments  landscape. The Visa Integrity Risk Program (VIRP)  establishes a set of ecosystem controls, requirements and  capabilities designed to deter, detect and remediate non- compliant transactions across our network. VIRP helps  acquirers and their designated agents"
"maintain proper  controls and oversight to prevent illegal transactions  from entering the Visa payment system, especially within  certain business types that are at higher risk of processing  unlawful transactions.  As part of the VIRP, Visa:  • Maintains registration requirements for acquirers and  merchants, pursuant to which acquirers attest to their  merchants’ compliance with our standards.  • Provides acquirers guidance and direction on controls  to help comply with Visa’s rules.  •"
"Proactively monitors participant network activity  via machine-learning solutions.  • Works with acquirers to identify and remediate (or  terminate under certain circumstances) merchants  that are selling illegal items and services.  • Engages with law enforcement to stay abreast of  ecosystem risks.  • Supports industry and cross-industry organizations and  initiatives such as the Internet Watch Foundation and  the Financial Coalition Against Child Sexual Exploitation,  a joint initiative of"
"the International Centre for Missing  and Exploited Children and the National Center for  Missing and Exploited Children.  • Combats counterfeiting and piracy in partnership  with the International Anti-Counterfeiting Coalition.  Visa is also a member of the Alliance for Safe Online  Pharmacies, a global initiative that works to combat  illegally sold prescription medicines.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 34   Investing in Our People   2023 Corporate Responsibility &"
"Sustainability Report | 35                               Being a Visa employee means being supported by  approximately 28,800 colleagues inspired by the  common purpose to uplift everyone, everywhere by  being the best way to pay and be paid. We celebrate our  employees’ unique life experiences, talents, passions  and the contributions they can make to drive innovation  in the payments technology industry. To maintain our  position as an employer of choice, we make intentional  investments in"
"our people in the following areas:  • Employee Talent, Growth & Learning  • Inclusion & Diversity  • Employee Engagement  • Visa Total Rewards  • Employee Safety & Security  We celebrate our employees’  unique life experiences, talents,  passions and the contributions  they can make.  Employee Talent, Growth & Learning   Visa’s longstanding commitment to invest in our  employees includes robust development and education  programs in areas of payments, technology, inclusion and  diversity,"
"professional development and leadership.  Talent & Learning Strategy  Visa employs a talent and learning strategy that seeks  to develop, attract and retain a capable, skilled and  engaged workforce. We aim to propel next-generation  leaders and enable career growth through technical and  functional skill development. We invest in enhanced ways  for working to ensure our workforce has opportunities to  continuously develop. This year, we continued to support  the performance, development and"
"career growth of  all employees at Visa. We foster a culture of excellence,  communicate openly and drive our teams to collaborate  and win together.  In 2023, we introduced a new approach to objective  setting, using the objectives and key results (OKR)  concept to increase clarity, ambition, transparency  and collaboration for the work teams deliver. Alongside  this, employees set two development objectives to  increase their impact and personal growth at Visa, which  employees discuss with"
"their people leader through a  new cadence of company-wide quarterly conversations.  Employees are encouraged to set out development plans  that combine new experiences, exposure and education.  Employees continue to access the guidance and resources  available to them to explore and drive their career growth  within the organization, personalized to their skills,  experience and interests. People leaders are expected  to be active supporters, and mentors are also available  to provide different"
"perspectives.  In 2023, we launched a Senior Vice President (SVP)  development program to offer focused development  for key senior talent. The development program includes  assessment tools and executive coaching, which are  designed to prepare future leaders for executive team  experiences. We also revised our Vice President (VP)  Development Program to target and accelerate the  development of skilled and diverse talent at the VP level,  strengthening career planning. In addition, senior"
"directors  now take part in the talent review and planning process to  drive a stronger, more diverse pipeline of talent across our  functions and regions.  In parallel, we are working on new initiatives to build  a deeper understanding of and ability to forecast the  skills our organization may need in the future, as well as  the skills our talent holds now. The intention is to more  proactively guide and future-proof employee career  planning and enable Visa’s upskilling and reskilling"
"strategy. Initiatives include developing and integrating  functional skill frameworks and testing dynamic skills  technology solutions.  Through these efforts, we are cultivating a culture  of high performance, growth and innovation, where  our people feel enabled to achieve their purpose and  full potential.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 36                                   2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 37  Employee Performance  & Mobility"
"Framework  Visa prioritizes employee development and growth  through regular, impactful performance and feedback  dialogues. We have adopted a simple yet powerful  practice comprising objective setting, quarterly  conversations and annual reviews. These regular  touchpoints aim to enhance performance conversations,  driving growth and improvement across our workforce.  They are complemented by ongoing recognition, coaching  and feedback for employees to meet their OKRs and  embody the Visa"
"Leadership Principles. During our 2023  annual review process, 91 percent of eligible employees  completed a self-assessment, and 97 percent received  a written manager assessment.  All Visa employees have a career development  framework, set of resources and digital tools to plan  their career growth at the company. We actively  encourage employees to explore growth opportunities  and formally support job mobility through our Internal  Mobility Guidelines.  Engagement from employees and people"
"leaders across  the organization remained high in 2023. Most employees  use internal tools to direct their development, and people  leaders engage in regular career and growth conversations  with individual team members.  Learning & Development  Visa University (VU), a part of the Visa People Team’s  Global Talent organization, is dedicated to enabling  business strategies and promoting employee  growth through comprehensive and diverse learning  opportunities. With offerings spanning from"
"leadership  development to role-specific training in areas like  Technology, Sales and Client Services, we aim to equip  employees with the skills they need in their roles and for  key emerging technologies. Our ethos is to ignite curiosity,  fuel learning and propel growth for everyone, everywhere,  every day. We achieve this by utilizing innovative learning  solutions that drive performance outcomes and are  based on a balanced methodology of Education,  Exposure and Experience.  To"
"demonstrate our commitment to cultivating  knowledge and skills among Visa’s global workforce,  in FY23 VU delivered over 400,000 hours of learning to  96 percent of Visa’s global employees (not including  required compliance training).  Notable VU accomplishments in FY23 include:  • Commercially focused: Initiatives offered as part of  our aspiration to build a best-in-class sales organization  include Visa Product Showcase, IDDEA Sales  Methodology 2.0, Sales Pro, Sales Persona Learning and"
"Sales Certifications workstreams. Over 6,000 client- facing employees underwent targeted training, with  significant focus on customer-first product story, product  awareness, and sales strategies and enablement.                     • Business and People Leadership: Programs include Leading for Growth: Country  Manager Program and Ignite: Leading Visa Forward and Leading Everyone, Everywhere.  These programs showed success, with participants reporting increased competencies  and confidence for"
"their respective roles, reassuring Visa’s commitment to nurturing  company leaders.  • Digital Payments: We extended our scalable Digital Payment Catalyst program to  over 500 employees. In partnership with Visa’s Crypto Team, VU launched Digital  Currency Fundamentals to educate employees on different types of digital currencies,  blockchain technology and non-fungible tokens and how they fit into the digital  payment ecosystem.  • Artificial Intelligen e: We also piloted the AI Acumen for"
"Senior Leaders course.  VU continues to support Visa’s technology transformation by upskilling employees  on cutting-edge tech topics such as Container, Cloud, Spark, Kafka, Tusker and more.  • Employee Productivity: Aligning with Visa's efforts to be bolder and faster,  VU launched How to Meet Better, a learning initiative to establish meaningful  meeting habits and improve productivity.  Bolstering Visa’s commitment to ongoing growth and learning, in 2023 VU hosted  the fifth annual Learning"
"Festival focused on Powering Your Payments Knowledge  and launched a new scalable program, Learn Together. More than 10,000 employees  attended 10 virtual sessions and over 100 in-person events at 60 locations around the  world. These achievements reiterate Visa University’s commitment to upskill employees  globally in alignment with Visa’s bold, fast, sell-focused approach.  Visa University delivered over 400,000 hours  of learning in FY23.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report"
"| 38                 Inclusion & Diversity   At Visa, inclusion and diversity is a business imperative,  from our workforce to the products we design and the  businesses we serve, across the varied regions in  which we operate. Our inclusion and diversity areas  of focus include:  • People: Attract, develop and retain a workforce that is  reflective of the business and communities we support.  • Leaders: Promote cultural competency among Visa  leaders to maximize engagement and create a more"
"robust talent acquisition pipeline.  • Environment: Foster organizational environment  that celebrates differences and encourages unique  perspectives.  • Business: Harness the innovative potential of an  inherently diverse workforce to drive business initiatives.  Visa is a people-centric company with supportive  colleagues who lift each other up and embrace a culture  of caring and respect. In the U.S., we have embedded  our commitment to inclusion and diversity in our hiring  practices. By"
"increasing our focus on inclusion and  diversity and investing in employee development,  we create more equitable teams within Visa.  Our People  We invest in a workplace that encourages diversity  of thought, culture and background so that diverse  perspectives are embedded in our work. We strive to  create an inclusive workplace by valuing all employees  and investing in robust inclusion and diversity training.  In 2023, we deepened our focus on the retention,  development and advancement of"
"women globally  at Visa, including through the following offerings:  • Black Enterprise Women of Power Summit: Visa  sponsored over 25 mid-career employees across  various locations and functions to attend a leadership  conference for executive women of color, where  they gained valuable development opportunities and  networked with peers and mentors. 95 percent of  participants reported that they gained useful ideas and  resources that they could apply to their roles at Visa.  • Fast Forward"
"Women: Visa piloted a hybrid program  with Fast Forward Group for over 70 mid-career  employees addressing specific challenges that women  encounter in the workplace. Participants from across  the U.S. joined a two-day, in-person program where  they learned practical tools for self-advocacy, work- life balance and career navigation. 92 percent of  participants reported gaining confidence to pursue  new responsibilities and leadership roles.  • Women in Payments: Visa increased our sponsorship"
"level to the sole Global Signature Networking Sponsor  of Women in Payments, a global organization focused  on gender parity in the payments industry. With this,  more than 100 employees across Visa will receive  access to mentorship opportunities, regional symposia  with key industry leaders and online memberships for  continued leadership and development.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 39               • AP RISE Program: In 2023, we launched a leadership  development"
"program with INSEAD in our Asia Pacific  (AP) region for approximately 40 mid-career employees  across the region. Participants engaged with INSEAD  professors to develop their strategic thinking and  effective communication skills, learn business acumen  and influence change. Participants completed capstone  projects to address specific business problems. More  than 90 percent of participants agreed that the program  sharpened their strategic thinking skills.  Visa also offers development"
"programs to support  employees of all backgrounds as they transition into  new experiences and job levels:  • Brij the Gap: A four-week online program that  provides participants with career and self-advocacy  strategies to support their career goals. Participants  receive personalized coaching and focus on weekly  development goals. Brij the Gap was held twice in  FY23 with over 100 participants, 91 percent of whom  reported that the program provided them with a  robust set of tools and"
"education on how to operate  successfully in their careers.  • I to the 4th Power: A six-week career development  offering in partnership with Clear Strategy Coaching.  Employees attend interactive classes, can participate in  optional office hours and question and answer sessions  and receive a personalized 30-minute coaching  session. I to the 4th Power was held twice in FY23 with  over 100 participants, 93 percent of whom reported  that the program provided them with tools and career"
"development strategies needed to either exceed  in their current role or to meet their next career goal.  • Talent Accelerator: In Europe, we expanded our ethnic  diversity Talent Accelerator program that supports  the progression of underrepresented employees at  the senior manager level and helps enable participants  to become leading change makers and role models  at Visa. Of the 17 participants in 2023, over 20 percent  have been promoted into Director-level roles in various  functions"
"across the business.  • MentoRING: In our AP region, the Young Professionals  Employee Resource Group (ERG) continued a three- month group MentoRING program where senior leaders  are paired with mentees across the region to discuss  topics such as career planning, building networks,  finding purpose and work-life balance.  Workforce Demographics1  Bar chart showing Visa's Gender in Global Workforce distribution as of September 30, 2023. 58% of Visa's global workforce identifies as male and 42%"
"identifies as emale. Bar chart showing Visa's Gender in Global Leadership distribution as of September 30, 2023. 64% of Visa's global  leadership identifies as male and 36% identifies as emale. Bar chart showing Visa's Gender in U.S. Workforce distribution as of September 30, 2023.  56% of Visa's U.S. workforce identifies as male and 44% identifies as emale. Bar chart showing Visa's Gender in U.S. Leadership distribution as of  September 30, 2023. 63% of Visa's U.S. leadership identifies as male"
"and 3 % identifies as emale.  Pie chart showing Visa's Ethnicities in U.S. Workforce distribution as of September 30, 2023. 42% of Visa's U.S. workforce identifies as Asian, 8% as Black, 13% as Hispanic, 35% as White and 3% as Other. Pie chart showing Visa's Ethnicities in U.S. Leadership distribution   as of September 30, 2023. 18% of Visa's U.S. leadership identifies as Asian, 6% as Black, 13% as Hispanic, 60% as White and 3% as Othe .  Asian  Black  Hispanic  White  Other3  42%  8%  13%  35%"
"3%  18%  6%  13%  60%  3%  Ethnicities  in U.S.  Workforce  Ethnicities  in U.S.  Leadership  Male  Female  58%  42%  64%  36%  56%  63%  44%  37%  Gender in Global Workforce  Gender in Global Leadership2  Gender in U.S. Workforce  Gender in U.S. Leadership  1. Demographic data is based on Company records as of September 30, 2023. Percentages may not add up to 100% due to rounding.  2. Leadership: Defined as Vice President and above.  3. Other: Defined as American Indian/Alaska Native, Native"
"Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander and two or more races. Ethnicity data does not include employees who choose not to disclose or who leave the field blank.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 40                                 Developing the Future Workforce  Sourcing world-class talent to join the Visa team and  investing in new talent pipelines can help bring greater  diversity to our company. Our talent strategy helps create  access to opportunities that did not previously"
"exist for  historically underrepresented individuals.  In 2023, we launched the Visa Payments Learning  Program, designed to upskill employees, students,  clients and military talent through training courses and  certifications to support a sustainable and diverse talent  pipeline. The initial focus of this program is centered  around payments cybersecurity, created in response  to the White House National Cybersecurity Strategy  Implementation Plan, which calls on businesses to  heighten"
"cybersecurity pathways for individuals as the  need for skilled cyber professionals continues to increase.  Currently available in the U.S. with plans to expand  globally, the Visa Payments Learning Program  comprises several cross-functional programs, including  Visa's Apprenticeship Program and Visa’s Military Talent  Program, which allows for diverse avenues  of upskilling and creates new opportunities for  untapped communities. In 2023, cross-functional  programs included:  • Visa’s"
"Apprenticeship Program: Through this  program an initial cohort received 16 weeks of  specialist training, will take part in Visa’s Payments  Cybersecurity Introductory Course and participate  in a one-year apprenticeship. This apprenticeship  provides talent of all backgrounds on-the-job training  to help build the technical and business skills needed  to succeed as cyber professionals.  • Visa’s Military Talent Program: A program that  actively recruits and hires military veterans, reservists"
"and military spouses to provide training and reskilling.  By creating a pipeline of military-affiliated talent, Visa  has an opportunity to provide training in areas such as  payments cybersecurity that builds on their existing  skill sets and rich diversity of experience.  In AP, we launched the Visa Returnship Program, which  gives women in technology who have taken a career break  an opportunity to upskill and re-enter the workforce. We  also partnered with a nongovernmental organization and"
"local training provider to provide employability training  for women students in Bengaluru and Karnataka in India.  Under this three-month program, students participated in  130 hours of in-person and online training and mentorship  from Visa leaders and industry experts. Selected students  were given the opportunity to join the early careers team.  These new initiatives complement existing programs  focused on the future workforce, including apprenticeship  programs in the U.K., the Visa"
"Technology Training  Program in Singapore and the Visa Learnership Program  in South Africa.  Fostering Allyship  We engage in active allyship and support efforts to  reduce unconscious bias in the workplace because we  believe these initiatives foster inclusion. We encourage  employees to gain knowledge of colleagues’ backgrounds  and experiences. We provide training opportunities to  equip our employees with resources and tools to become  active allies and learn behaviors that build a"
"workplace  where diverse perspectives are valued.  Allyship efforts include shared experiences through our  Inclusion and Diversity Talks speaker series, a global  education opportunity for Visa employees designed to  promote active learning. We host guest speakers in this  series for thought-provoking conversations that embrace  global experiences and points of view.  In 2023, we continued Leading and Belonging at Visa,  a learning experience for leaders provided in partnership  with the"
"Perception Institute, an organization that  translates research on race and other identities into  solutions that help reduce bias and promote belonging.  Employee Resource Groups  With over 12,000 members across the globe, Visa’s ERGs  are employee-led networks that support a diverse,  equitable and inclusive workplace. The ERGs complement  our broader corporate inclusion and diversity efforts and  help foster an inclusive work environment that derives the  benefits of diverse employees’"
"talents, skills and abilities.  In 2022, we laid the foundation for increased ERG  effectiveness and impact by launching a global ERG  strategy. The strategy included the development of annual  operating plans through a centralized budget, adoption  of an ERG management platform and the publishing of  dashboards to improve reporting of ERG impact metrics.  Each ERG was assigned an executive committee-level  sponsor to champion the ERG and advise on strategy  and goal setting.  2023 Corporate"
"Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 41     In 2023, Visa’s ERGs included: • Visa Latinx Connect  • Visa Native, Allies, Tribal and Indigenous Voices  Everywhere (NATIVE)  • Visa Military Employee Resource Group (MERG)  • Visa Parents and Carers  • Visa Asians Standing Together (VAST)  • Visa Employees with Visible/Invisible Disabilities (Viable)  • Visa Black Employee Network (ViBE)  • Visa Indian Alliance (VINA)  • Visa PRIDE  • Visa Women’s Network (VWN)  • Visa Young Professionals (VYP)"
"• Visa Race Ethnicity and Cultural Heritage (REACH) –  E.U. only  Promoting Accessibility  At Visa, we focus on creating inclusive and accessible  products that can serve as many people as possible. By  leveraging an inclusion-first approach, we can develop  products that reflect the diversity of experiences of  our clients, partners and consumers. Furthermore, we  believe inclusive product design leads to better and more  thoughtful products.  Accessibility involves designing, developing and"
"testing  digital experiences to make them accessible for people  with disabilities, including those that affect a user’s visual,  mobility, cognitive or hearing ability. Thoughtful design and  implementation help create a good user experience for all.  To help ensure Visa products and services are   accessible to users with disabilities, the global and   regional accessibility teams collaborate with product  designers, developers and other experts across the  company. The accessibility team"
"provides technical   and strategic consulting, design reviews, VGAR auditing  and maintenance, training, strategic partnerships   and governance.  To promote ease and consistency, we also created the   Visa Global Accessibility Requirements (VGAR) to support  Visa staff. VGAR is a five-step method that supports  compliance with international accessibility standards   and requirements. For more on VGAR, please visit the   Visa Developer Center.  Visa has updated VGAR to reflect the Web Content"
"Accessibility Guidelines 2.2, the global standard for  accessibility that aims to help reduce barriers for people  with disabilities.  Marketing Responsibly  We use the strength and influence of the Visa brand  to foster inclusive communities. Our Creative Review  Council for Inclusion and Equity reviews and advises   on various U.S. marketing and communications campaigns  to embed input from historically underrepresented  communities, supporting Visa’s dedication to responsible  marketing. The"
"Advisory Council consists of Visa  employees who are members of an ERG with diverse  racial, cultural and gender identities and represent   varying job levels across departments and office locations  in the U.S.  Visa continues to reflect historically underrepresented  groups in our marketing campaigns, events and  sponsorships, such as the Team Visa program. Through  the program, Visa partners with a diverse set of athletes  who are representative of the communities where we live  and work and"
"who use the program’s platform to share  the inspiring stories of their personal journeys, athletic  achievements and community involvement.  Since 2000, the Team Visa athlete program has  championed nearly 700 Olympic and Paralympic  athletes selected based on their athletic achievements,  community involvement and alignment with Visa’s core  values of equality, access and inclusion.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 42                    Employee Engagement   At Visa, we"
"believe that building an inclusive, high- performing culture requires an engaged workforce, where  employees are motivated to do their best work every day.  Our engagement approach centers on communication,  monitoring and recognition.  Visa Leadership Principles  At Visa, all employees are encouraged and empowered to  be leaders by embracing the Visa Leadership Principles.  These Leadership Principles are integrated into core talent  processes and, since their introduction six years ago, have"
"enhanced how we evaluate performance and drive the  company’s success.  To lead the next wave of momentum and support our  ambitious organizational growth plans, we updated  our Leadership Principles in FY23 to bring new meaning  and direction to the way we act and lead. Our evolved  Leadership Principles aim to drive clarity and specificity  around the behaviors that will contribute to Visa’s future  success while building on our strengths.  Lead  Courageously  Lead Courageously  Act like an"
"owner. We think about every opportunity,  investment, and resource as if Visa were our family’s  business. We are emotionally invested in driving long-term  growth and value. We are committed, resourceful, and  proactive in identifying problems, opportunities,  and solutions.  Think big and challenge the status quo. We are  constantly curious about our industry, technology, and the  world. We set bold aspirations and develop new ideas that  shape the future of commerce.  Hold ourselves and each"
"other accountable. We take  responsibility for our behaviors, actions, and decisions.  We act with integrity, have the courage to stand up for  what is right, and hold each other accountable to deliver.  Obsess about  Customers  Obsess about Customers  Listen and learn from customers. We seek to deeply  understand our customers to enable them to achieve  their goals.  Dream, design, and build the future of payments.  We anticipate end users’ needs and create simple,  compelling solutions to"
"address them.  Sell with pride and purpose. We are proud of our  solutions and we build deep, trust-based partnerships  that drive mutual growth.  Collaborate as  One Visa  Collaborate as One Visa  Champion inclusion and diversity. We treat everyone  with respect. We excel by harnessing the power of  diversity of all kinds to drive innovation and fuel  our growth.  Encourage constructive debate. We pursue the truth in  everything we do. We communicate openly and honestly.  We speak our minds"
"respectfully, always assuming good  intent and keeping an open mind.  Enable each other to succeed. We work and win  together as partners. We remove barriers and empower  teams to maximize the impact of our collective resources  and capabilities.  Execute with  Excellence  Execute with Excellence  Decide quickly and move fast. We make the best call  based on the available data. We take calculated risks  and have a bias for action, even when it means we must  disagree and commit.  Deliver"
"seamlessly. We strive for simplicity and make it  easy to get things done. We plan carefully and execute  successfully to exceed expectations.  Learn from our mistakes. We own our mistakes and  address them. We change our decisions when new  facts emerge.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 43                            Employee Value Proposition  Visa’s Employee Value Proposition (EVP), Powering  Payments, Uplifting People, was launched in 2022  and in 2023 was embedded and"
"implemented across  new programs and processes, including onboarding,  recognition and recruitment resources. The EVP is linked  to our purpose and designed to help attract new talent  and engage and retain current employees by fostering  opportunities for meaningful conversations, driving  awareness and providing tools that resonate with internal  and external audiences.  Visa conducted employee research and identified three  key areas where we thrive: impact, growth and inclusivity.  At Visa,"
"our employees appreciate that they can make  an impact with a purpose-driven industry leader, drive  their personal development within a growing company  and be part of a people-centered company that invests  in them directly.  Employee Surveys & Employee  Feedback  We assess employee engagement through a variety of  channels, including employee surveys that elicit feedback  on company direction and strategy, wellbeing, inclusion  and diversity, individual growth and development,  collaboration,"
"role alignment and support, pride and  other topics.  Through our survey, we heard that 92 percent of  participating employees understand the link between  their work and our company’s strategic objectives.4  The survey also reported that:  • 91 percent would recommend Visa as a great  place to work.  • 89 percent of employees are proud to work for a  purpose-driven company.  • 88 percent said their manager’s actions reflect  commitment to the new Visa Leadership Principles.  Additionally, in"
"2023, 95 percent of employees reported  that they feel proud to work for Visa, eight points higher  than the software and service industry average. This  strong engagement reflects high marks for manager  effectiveness and notable progress across key areas of  focus, including belonging and career growth.  Employee Recognition  In recent years, Visa has prioritized and invested  in employee recognition, which in turn helps drive  engagement. We revitalized Visa’s recognition approach  with the"
"launch of our UPLIFT program in April 2023.  This innovative program broadened the scope of  recognition in line with our company purpose to uplift  everyone, everywhere. The program is supported by a  robust communications campaign that keeps recognition  at the forefront.  One of the key features of UPLIFT is its inclusivity, as it  allows employees to feel recognized, appreciated and  celebrated no matter their role or level, empowering all  employees to give recognition to their peers,"
"promoting  a positive work culture that values and celebrates all  employees. To reinforce our Leadership Principles and  the pillars of our EVP, we have embedded these initiatives  into UPLIFT so that managers and peers can recognize  employees who exemplify and exhibit these values.  We also offer employees the opportunity to connect  with one another through the Employee Connections  program. Offered globally to employees at the senior  director level and below, the program was launched  in"
"August 2023 and has already seen engagement with  nearly 5,000 employees.  With the programs we have established, employee  sentiment is on the rise. In 2023, 81 percent of responding  employees reported that they feel appropriately  recognized for doing really good work, seven points  higher than the software and service industry average.  Employee Communications  Visa values maintaining various streams of communication  with our employees to keep them informed and to  listen to their needs. In"
"FY23, we communicated with  our employees through regular video updates from our  CEO, company intranet, digital signage, social media, Visa  TV, email newsletters, live events in regional offices and  quarterly townhall meetings. Visa also conducts employee  surveys, live question and answer sessions and fireside  chats to encourage employees to share their voice with  the company.  4. Overall employee response rate was 92 percent.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 44"
"Visa Total Rewards   We structure our total rewards and benefits package  to attract and retain a talented and engaged global  workforce. We routinely review end-to-end total rewards  for all employees to align with the EVP and to ensure our  benefits package reflects our values and culture.  We provide comprehensive wellbeing, financial and  quality-of-life benefits and continue to evolve our  programs to meet employee needs. Our benefits package  includes competitive compensation, incentive"
"plans,  a two-for-one 401(k) match in the U.S., mental health  resources and flexible work arrangements.  Additional benefits vary by location and may include:  • Employee Stock Purchase Plan  • Paid new child bonding leave, with a minimum of  14 weeks for all parents  • Family emergency leave  • Education assistance tuition reimbursement program  • Child and elder care services  • Concierge and errand running services  • Various insurance products  • Fertility, surrogacy and adoption benefits"
"• Milk shipping and lactation support  • Discount programs  • Generous paid time off and holidays  • Paid volunteer time and time off for voting in elections  • Ability to work from another location for up to  four weeks  • Commuter assistance  In 2023, Visa broadened the scope of the following  coverages for employees:  • Family Care: Our Family Emergency Leave now  incorporates additional situations and scenarios to  address unique caring needs.  • Child and elder care services: We expanded"
"our child  and adult/elder care offerings in the U.S. to include  a broader network of care centers and discounts on  tutoring, summer camps, STEM programs and childcare.  • U.S. Healthcare: We introduced a new no-cost dental  option for employee-only coverage and vision plan  enhancements like essential medical eye care, which  will provide access to a variety of screenings and exams,  for a minimal copay.  For comprehensive information about employee benefits,  please visit Visa’s Benefits"
"website.  Employee Wellbeing  Promoting good mental health in the workplace is priority  for our business and our employees. As a company, we  are demonstrating our deep commitment to employees’  mental health and wellbeing by expanding our wellness  offerings—not just for extreme circumstances, but for  every day.  We offer free telephone or in-person therapy for all  global employees 24 hours a day, seven days a week via  our mental health benefit and our employee assistance  program. In the"
"U.S., mental health and coaching services  are also available by phone, in app, video chat or in person.  All U.S.-based employees are eligible to use these services,  regardless of enrollment in other Visa benefits.  Recognizing variations in work and collaboration around  the world and across functions, we provide leaders  with the flexibility to create hybrid plans that support  their individual teams. As part of these hybrid plans,  most employees work in the office at least 50 percent of"
"the time. Our updated approach gives our employees  flexibility balanced with the benefits of working together  in-person. We continue to execute our flexible hybrid work  strategy with a focus on “the three C’s”—collaboration,  connection and community— to foster a strong and  rewarding culture within Visa.  In FY23, we continued No Meeting Friday Afternoons  and offered summer Wellbeing Hours to give employees  additional time to focus on themselves. We held sessions  for employees to learn"
"insights and tips from outside  experts about mental health and wellbeing.  During Mental Health Awareness Month, we featured 27  events designed to reduce stigma around mental health.  In 2023, Visa continued to share tools, workshops and  wellbeing benefits programs organized by region through  our Be Well Wellbeing Hub. We also encourage employees  to join our Be Well Community to connect with colleagues  for wellness-focused activities and events.  2023 Corporate Responsibility &"
"Sustainability Report | 45     Compensation Philosophy  At Visa, we conduct annual compensation reviews to  help confirm our total rewards are market leading. As  part of this review, we ensure that we pay at or above  any regulated minimum wage in each market. We also  participate in dozens of market surveys that span the  multiple geographies where we have employees, and a  variety of industries, including Information Technology,  Financial Services and General Industry.  We also conduct"
"benchmarking and market analysis  to confirm competitiveness with local markets and to  determine paylines — used for creating internal and  external offers — and other enhancements.  For example, in the U.S., all full-time employees are paid a  $20 per hour minimum, regardless of lower local minimum  wages. In Europe, Visa participates in the U.K. living wage  standards. As shared in our proxy statement, for FY23,  our median employee earned approximately $150,000.  As part of building an"
"inclusive and equitable organization,  we are committed to tracking, measuring, evaluating and  reporting annually on our workforce demographics and  pay equity.  Visa’s goal is to include 100 percent of regular, active  employees in fully integrated subsidiaries in our equal  pay analysis. Our most recent analysis was based on FY23  total compensation, which includes base salary, annual  cash incentives and annual long-term incentive awards.  We met our goal of including 100 percent of all"
"regular,  active employees of all fully integrated subsidiaries as of  September 30, 2023, in our FY23 equal pay analysis.  Regarding non-employee contingent workers, all Visa  suppliers are subject to our Supplier Code of Conduct,  which sets forth Visa’s expectation that suppliers meet  International Labour Organization (ILO) standards for their  workers. Suppliers are required to comply with applicable  wage and hour labor laws and regulations and should  ensure appropriate work hours and pay"
"fair wages in line  with ILO standards.  In FY23: Women earned $1.00  for every $1.00 earned by men  for the same work globally, and  underrepresented employees  earned $1.00 for every $1.00  earned by white employees for  the same work in the U.S.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 46                           Employee Safety & Security   Visa has a long-standing commitment to protecting the  physical safety of our global workforce. Responsibility  and oversight of"
"employee safety resides with the Visa  Global Security and Safety (GSS) team, which promotes  the safety of Visa’s employees and contingent workers by  establishing health and safety practices. The GSS team  maintains a global Safety, Health and Environmental Policy  and provides relevant training to the executive team and  key employees.  To track our health and safety performance, Visa conducts  monthly and annual audits of our health and safety  equipment and facilities. Each month we track"
"and audit  our near misses, injuries and worker compensation claims.  Since 2022, we have led a global safety campaign designed  to teach lifesaving skills that help keep our workplace  safe. Employees participate in classes to become Safety  Ambassadors and learn how to administer adult and  pediatric First Aid, CPR/AED or Stop the Bleed procedures,  as well as personal security awareness. In FY23, nearly  5,000 participants attended these classes. Since  launching our global safety campaign,"
"more than 8,500  participants have been trained through 685 classes. We  believe these classes are not only important for improving  the safety of our workplace, but that they also help the  families, neighbors and communities of Visa employees  be more prepared for an emergency.  Visa assesses and manages safety risks, provides security  measures and oversees emergency response  by monitoring:  • Emerging security threats, such as natural disasters,  civil unrest and terrorist attacks"
"identified through  security, government and media sources.  • Personnel on business travel and employees  who are working outside their home countries.  • Company assets, including facilities and strategic  third-party sites.  In 2023, we took steps to educate employees around  physical security to support flexible work and provide  appropriate security presence across our sites. We also  continued to support employee safety by providing  information and resources for employees to work"
"effectively and safely.  In addition, Visa maintains an Ergonomics Program to help  employees create an environment in which they can work  comfortably and productively from anywhere.  The Ergonomics Program, which is available to employees  globally, including telecommuters, and includes an  online office ergonomics training and guidance on how  to identify opportunities to improve working habits and  adjust workspaces. Upon completion of the training,  employees receive a personalized plan to"
"address  ergonomic issues.  Select Corporate  Recognition  • Gender-Equality Index (Bloomberg, 2023)  • Equality 100 Award: Leader in LGBTQ+ Inclusion  (Human Rights Campaign, 2023-2024)  • Black Equity Index Inaugural Member  (Coqual)  • 100% on the Disability Equality Index &  Best Place to Work for People with Disabilities  (Disability Equality Index, 2023)  • Corporate Inclusion Index, 5-Star Rating for  Employment, Governance and Philanthropy  (Hispanic Association on Corporate"
"Responsibility, 2023)  • Inclusion Index (Seramount, 2023)  • America's Greatest Workplaces for Diversity  (Newsweek, 2024)  • America's Greatest Workplaces for Remote Work  (Newsweek, 2023)  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 47   Protecting the Planet   2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 48               Visa believes in the importance of helping to protect our planet and its natural resources  and supporting climate action. We strive to use our"
"products, services, network, expertise,  brand and partnerships to minimize the environmental footprint of our operations,  inspire and empower sustainable commerce and support the global transition to a  low-carbon economy.  Our strategy focuses on three pillars:  • Sustainable Operations  • Sustainable Movement  • Climate Tech Solutions  Visa aims to be among global corporate leaders in this decisive decade of action.  The following climate-related goals and aspirations guide our efforts:"
"Carbon neutral operations: Maintain carbon neutrality of our operations  (scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and the business travel  (category 6) and employee commuting (category 7) components of scope 3).  Science-based near-term targets: Reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG  emissions 50 percent by FY30 from a FY20 base year. Reduce absolute scope 3  GHG emissions 42 percent within the same timeframe.  Science-based net-zero target: Achieve net-zero emissions in alignment with  the"
"SBTi net zero framework from our scopes 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 2040.  Climate positive company: Support positive climate action beyond our  operational footprint by leveraging our products, services, network and other  resources.  Visa’s net-zero emissions by 2040 goal aligns with and has been submitted to the SBTi for  approval in 2024. This target includes efforts to engage with suppliers to abate a significant  portion of the GHG footprint of Visa’s purchased goods and services, which are"
"detailed  in this chapter. Visa’s science-based near-term targets are approved by the SBTi at the 1.5°  Celsius ambition level.  To continue advancing Visa’s ambitious climate goals, we are developing a Climate  Transition Plan that refers to guidance set forth from climate strategy frameworks such as  the Transition Plan Taskforce (TPT) and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Center for  Corporate Climate Leadership. This plan is designed to guide progress towards Visa’s net- zero target,"
"details our reduction pathways and provides insight on key initiatives such as  supplier engagement, policy engagement, board oversight and reporting.  Green Bond  In support of our climate goals and initiatives, in 2020, Visa issued our inaugural $500 million Green Bond. In alignment with our Green  Bond Framework, we are using our Green Bond to finance the construction and operation of highly efficient buildings with a focus on  energy and water efficiency improvements. As detailed in our 2023"
"Green Bond Report, Visa has allocated $391.0 million as of March  31, 2023 in eligible spend on projects that meet the Eligibility Criteria in accordance with the Use of Proceeds defined in the Green Bond  Framework. Details on specific projects financed by the Green Bond can also be found in our annual Green Bond Report.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 49                   Sustainable Operations   Our initiatives to deliver on our climate-related corporate  goals begin"
"with our efforts within Visa. We continue to  work to reduce the environmental footprint from our  business activities, which primarily include data centers  and offices, employee commuting, business travel,  corporate events and purchased goods and services  from our suppliers.  Greening Our Offices & Data Centers  Visa is committed to reducing the environmental  impact of our offices and data centers by implementing  green building design and managing energy and water use.  Our approach"
"includes obtaining the U.S. Green Building  Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design  (LEED), Building Research Establishment Environmental  Assessment Method (BREEAM), Green Mark or equivalent  certifications for the design, construction and build-out of  our office facilities. We use green building standards and  guidelines to increase resource use efficiency within our  existing buildings.  As of September 30, 2023, Visa owned or leased 144 office  locations in 82 countries,"
"including four global processing  centers, 80 percent of which had achieved or was pending  green building certification.  In 2023, Visa made progress toward our goals by:  • Purchasing 100 percent solar energy at our Ashburn  data center from new solar power projects located  in southeastern Virginia.  Visa Data Center Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) – 2017-2023 2.5  Bar chart showing Visa's Data Center Power Usage Effectiveness from 2017 to 2023 in the U.K, U.S. East and U.S. Central. There is"
"gradual downward trend across  all seven years, as the global weighted average drops from 1.84 in 2017 to 1.45 in 2023.  2019  2020  2021  2022  2023  2017  2018  2.0  1.5  1.0  0.5  0.0  U.K.  U.S. – East  U.S. – Central  Global  Weighted  Average  • Implementing ongoing improvements to our data  centers, including upgrading and replacing server  and infrastructure equipment and server racks.  • Operating a new highly efficient modular data center  unit with contained cooling at our Highlands"
"Ranch data  center location.  In FY23, Visa’s data centers accounted for 66 percent of  our total electricity consumption and remain an important  focus of our sustainable operations efforts. In 2023, we  achieved year-over-year improvements in our data center  energy efficiency, measured by power usage effectiveness  (PUE). Globally, the PUE in our data centers has improved  by 21 percent since 2017.1  Ecosystems & Biodiversity  As a technology company, Visa’s direct impact on  ecosystems and"
"biodiversity is limited. We work to  mitigate these limited impacts and include nature-based  solutions like forest conservation, agriculture and soil  management projects in our carbon offset strategy.  Visa also considers our impact to local ecosystems and  biodiversity through our commitment to implementing  green building design in offices and data centers, which  includes landscaping and water. Visa has also partnered  with organizations like One Tree Planted for tree planting  and"
"volunteer events.  1. The average PUE value represents a weighted average, based on the reported PUE metrics and total energy consumption at each of our data center locations.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 50                                                       2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 51  Renewable Electricity  Visa continues to meet our goal of purchasing 100 percent  renewable electricity for our offices and data centers  through"
"participation in power purchase agreements  and utility renewable energy programs and through the  purchase of renewable energy certificates (RECs). Visa also  continues to champion the broader corporate renewable  energy movement, including through our membership in  RE100 and the Clean Energy Buyers Association.  In 2023, our multi-year agreement with Shell Energy  Solutions shifted to source from Virginia solar projects  to provide 100 percent renewable electricity for Visa’s  largest data"
"center, accounting for about 45 percent of  our total global electricity usage. The agreement, which  includes the procurement of renewable electricity and  renewable energy credits, showcases Visa’s commitment  and investment in Virginia over the next six years and  directly supports the Virginia Clean Economy Act, which  is expected to create nearly 30,000 new solar jobs in the  Commonwealth by 2030.  We remain focused on identifying opportunities to  increase additionality to the grid through"
"investments  and enrollments in renewable electricity offerings,  including through long-term renewable electricity  purchase agreements, while reducing our purchase  of unbundled RECs.  Travel & Events  We continue to identify and implement steps to reduce  the environmental footprint of our employee commuting,  business travel and corporate events.  Visa helps eligible employees reduce the emissions from  their commutes by providing subsidies for public transit  and bicycle commuting and"
"access to electric vehicle (EV)  chargers in select locations in North America.  Visa leases a minimal fleet of ground vehicles for  maintenance, security and, in some cases, employee  transport that we aspire to convert to 100 percent EVs  by 2030. The electricity used to charge these vehicles  is typically covered by our 100 percent renewable  electricity goal.  As a participant in the United Airlines Eco-Skies Alliance,  we aim to address emissions related to business travel  and support the"
"advancement of the use of sustainable  aviation fuel (SAF) in air travel. Through the Alliance, we  are working to reduce the carbon emissions from our  business travel on United Airlines by helping to fund the  green premium for SAF. Our participation aligns with Visa’s  signatory commitment to Clean Skies for Tomorrow,  a coalition of leaders in sustainable aviation.  In 2023, we launched a Sustainable Travel Initiative  for our employees to make sustainable travel options  more accessible so"
"that employees can reduce the  environmental footprint associated with business                                       travel. Visa partnered with travel providers to showcase  the emissions impacts with various flight options and  encourage employees to rent electric vehicles and use  Uber Green when possible. We are monitoring outcomes  from these initiatives and aspire to report on progress  in future reports.  Employees  Visa strives to inspire our employees around the world  to be"
"sustainability champions and advocates in the  workplace, at home and in our communities. Throughout  the year we offer tips and suggestions for integrating  sustainability into daily life through webinars, emails  and videos.  Central to our efforts is our annual global Visa Earth Month  series of events held each April. In 2023, we hosted:  • Speaker Series: focused on topics including sustainable  operations, travel, mobility and major sports events.  • Earth Month Eco-Challenges: enabled"
"employees to  calculate their personal carbon footprints and make  simple commitments to reduce their impact.  • Employee Sustainable Living Survey: identified the  aspirations, barriers and areas of most interest among  employees around greener living.  We also offer an ongoing sustainability learning path within  Visa University, our training and development platform.  We designed the learning path to provide employees  with a foundation in topics and solutions related to  sustainability and"
"climate change.  Suppliers  Visa believes in the importance of addressing the  emissions from our purchased goods and services.  Our efforts to engage suppliers include:  • Incorporating environmental sustainability expectations  in the Visa Supplier Code of Conduct (Supplier Code),  which suppliers receive during the onboarding process.  • Participating in the CDP Supply Chain program,  through which we engage our leading suppliers around  measuring their emissions footprints, setting targets,"
"reporting to the CDP and attributing their footprint  back to Visa.  Since joining the CDP Supply Chain program in 2019,   Visa has expanded outreach to our top 500 suppliers,   representing approximately 85 percent of annual spend   with suppliers. Visa’s supply chain emissions represent 84   percent of total scope 3 emissions. Among Visa’s suppliers who responded to our request   to participate in the 2023 CDP Supply Chain program: • 93 percent reported their operational emissions.  • 72"
"percent reported active targets, and 43 percent  had validated near-term SBTi targets.  • 83 percent reported emissions reduction.  • 76 percent reported renewable energy use.  • 74 percent reported initiatives to engage their  own suppliers.  In 2024, we will continue to focus our supplier  engagement efforts on our top 500 suppliers.  To guide our approach to achieving Visa’s ambitious  climate goals and to help monitor progress, Visa is  developing a Climate Transition Plan in line with"
"guidance  set forth from the TPT and EPA Center for Corporate  Climate Leadership. This plan guides progress toward  Visa’s net-zero target and details our reduction pathways  and other key initiatives such as supplier engagement,  policy engagement, board oversight, reporting and others.  In early 2024, we updated our Supplier Code of Conduct  to include clear expectations about suppliers reporting  emissions and setting targets to reduce them. For more  information, see Responsible Sourcing."
"Our Results  Visa has conducted an annual global environmental  footprint assessment with support from leading  third-party firms to help measure and manage our  environmental impact since 2008. Each year, we measure  our global energy use, GHG emissions, water use, waste  production and landfill diversion rate. We also seek  external verification of our GHG emissions through an  independent third party to the limited assurance level.  Visa’s 2023 GHG Verification Statement is publicly"
"available on our website and included in the Appendix of  this report. We use international standards, including the  GHG Protocol, to measure and report GHG emissions.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 52   Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions  Globally, momentum continues to accelerate around the need to urgently act on climate  change and transition to a low-carbon economy. Visa is responding by taking bold steps to  reduce our GHG emissions.  Visa continues to maintain"
"carbon neutrality across our operations, which we achieved for  the first time in 2020. We define operational carbon neutrality as including the footprint  from our scope 1, scope 2 and the employee commuting and business travel components  of our scope 3 GHG emissions. Our ability to maintain carbon neutrality is the result of  ongoing energy efficiency initiatives, our transition to 100 percent renewable electricity  and limited use of carbon offsets to cover our residual footprint.  24%"
"reduction in scopes 1 & 2  GHG emissions since FY20.  In FY23, we used approximately 841,000 gigajoules (GJ) of energy from electricity,  natural gas and other fuels.  Performance highlights include:  • Emissions: Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions, measured in absolute terms with a  market-based approach, were 10,600 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent  (MTCO₂e) in 2023, a 24 percent reduction relative to FY20.  • Energy intensity: In FY23, total energy use and energy intensity per square foot"
"increased, largely as a result of returning to pre-pandemic business operations.  • Climate reporting and transparency: In 2023, Visa responded to the CDP Climate  Change questionnaire for the 13th consecutive year and received an A- rating.  Visa’s CDP response is available on our corporate website and CDP.net.  Operational Emissions (MT CO2e)  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 53  Stacked bar chart showing Visa's Operational Emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent for"
"Scope 1 and 2 emissions from 2009 to 2023. There is a  downward trend in Scope 1 and 2 emissions; however, there was a slight increase in 2023 compared to last year, resulting in Scope 1 and 2 metric tons  of CO2 equivalent increase from 6,400 to 10,600. Visa's Scope 1 emissions remained relatively consistent year over year. Visa's Scope 2 emissions  were also relatively consistent from 2009 to 2019, dropping signifi antly in 2020 before dropping to zero in 2021 and 2022. In 2023, there was an"
"increase in Scope 2 emissions from zero in 2022 to 300 in 2023. The chart also shows Visa's carbon offsets, beginning in 2 20 through 2023. In 2023,  Visa invested in carbon offsets equi alent to 66,300 metric tons of CO2 equivalent.  Operational Emissions Relative to 2009 (MT CO2e)  0%  -20%  Absolute  emissions  -40%  MTCO₂e per  square foot  MTCO2e per  employee  -60%  MTCO2e per  -80%  million dollar  revenue  -100%  Line graph showing Visa's Operational Emissions Relative to 2009 in metric"
"tons of CO2 equivalent. There are four lines on the graph, including:  absolute emissions, metric tons of CO2 equivalent per square foot, metric tons of CO2 equivalent per employee and metric tons of CO2 equivalent  per million dollar revenue. The graph shows the overall percentage decrease from 2009 to 2023. There is a strong downward trend from 2009 to  2019, and a sharp decline from 2019 to 2022 across all four lines. Visa's absolute emissions increased slightly in 2023 compared to 2022."
"Scope 3 Emissions (MTCO2e)  2. Visa’s growth in scope 2 emissions can be attributed to an improved accounting for RECS which led to an increase in market-based Scope 2  emissions. Visa has adjusted the Scope 2 accounting procedure so that RECs are only applied to energy purchases in the same market as the RECs  are generated. There are locations around the world where RECs are not available or where Visa will not purchase at this time (Russia). The Visa  team has identified the locations of"
"these energy purchases that cannot be offset with local RECs and applied the emission factor for the relevant  domestic energy grid. In-market RECs for these locations will be procured if and when they become available. In FY23, Visa purchased RECs, in  accordance with RE100, equal to 99% of our total electricity footprint in order to mitigate against our total Scope 2 emissions.                600,000  527,700  500,000  Downstream leased assets  400,000  409,200  403,900  409,500  Employee"
"commuting  Business travel  300,000  Waste generated in operations  200,000  Fuel- and energy-related activities  100,000  Purchased goods and services  0  Stacked bar chart showing Visa's Scope 3 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent from 2019 to 2023. There are six categories, including:  downstream leased assets, employee commuting, business travel, waste generated in operations, fuel- and energy-related services and purchased  goods and services. Between 2019 and 2021, there was a"
"slight decrease across all six categories. Beginning in 2022, there was a slight increase in  Visa's Scope 3 emissions to 403,900 metric tons of CO2 equivalent, which increased slightly in 2023 to 409,500 metric tons of CO2 equivalent. From  2022 to 2023, Scope 3 emissions decreased in the purchased goods and services category, but increased in the employee commuting and business  travel categories, which accounted for the overall increase.  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  2014  2015  2016  2017"
"2018  2019  2020  2021  2022  2023  321,000  2019  2020  2021  2022  2023  100,000 80,000 60,000 40,000 20,000 0 -20,000 -40,000 -60,000 -70,000 2013 2014 2015 2016 2009 2010 2011 2012 2017 2018 2019 2020 2022 2023 2021 78,700 79,500 76,500 80,600 94,500 84,200 64,300 69,100 63,400 60,100 59,800 13,900 6,400 10,600 4,000 -34,456 -66,300 -46,100 -19,154 Scope 1 Scope 22 Carbon  oﬀsets    Carbon Offsets We purchase a limited amount of carbon offset projects to mitigate our residual GHG  emissions."
"Our carbon offsets portfolio spans regions in which we operate and includes  projects such as forest management in the U.S., reforestation in Uruguay, renewable  energy generation in Turkey, China and India and clean cookstove initiatives in Kenya  and Uganda.  We prioritize nature-based solutions in our carbon mitigation strategy. For example,  we invest in an improved forest management project covering 12,500 acres of tribal  forestland in the Keweenaw Bay Indian Community of Lake Superior in"
"Michigan’s Upper  Peninsula. This project aims to minimize human-induced GHG emissions and the effects  of climate change in the region by sustainably managing forest that may otherwise be  degraded from conventional logging practices. Additionally, in Guinea-Bissau we invest  in a community forest protection project. The project aims to halt deforestation within  the Cacheu Mangrove Forest National Park and the Cantanhez Forest National Park and  contribute toward sustainable livelihoods for"
"the communities surrounding the parks.  Visa plans to continue purchasing carbon offsets to maintain carbon neutrality and to  cover residual emission to meet our net-zero target.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 54   Water  We believe in the importance of protecting water as a shared resource, particularly in  water-stressed areas. As a payments technology company, Visa’s business is not water  intensive, although we do implement data-driven strategies to reduce the"
"total water use  at our offices and data centers. Our data centers are some of our largest water users, and  we are working to improve water efficiency and reduce use at these sites by:  • Utilizing reclaimed water at our eastern U.S. data center, our largest overall water user.  This site received approximately 95 percent of its water in 2023 from a reclaimed water  system, significantly reducing potable water withdrawal required at the site.  • Continuing to upgrade cooling towers at our"
"central U.S. data center, Visa’s largest user  of potable water. This initiative is expected to reduce annual water use by nearly 35  percent compared to the original system it is replacing.  • Applying programs to reduce water use at our U.K. data center, such as utilizing a  closed-loop water system that helps eliminate water waste and reduce overall demand.  In 2023, we used an estimated 61,850,000 gallons of potable water in our global portfolio.  Waste  While not a major producer of solid"
"waste, Visa continues to work to reduce the amount  of office waste we dispose of in landfills. Visa reduces waste streams at our office facilities  and data centers through thoughtful design of our spaces and kitchenettes, engaging  with our food service providers, reducing single-use items and plastics and by engaging  employees with waste education and awareness campaigns.  We continue to work to manage our e-waste responsibly and create opportunities for  employees to participate in e-waste"
"recycling or reuse programs for personal devices.  We partner with technology providers to buy back employee laptops and server  equipment for recycling or reuse at product end-of life.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 55  Total Water Usage (in Millions of Liters)  Stacked bar chart showing Visa's total water usage in millions of liters from 2015 to 2023, broken into reclaimed and potable water. Between 2021 and  2023, there was an increase in total water usage from 270.9"
"millions of liters to 365.000 millions of liters.  Change in Potable Water Use Relative to 2015  0%  -20%  Liters  Liters per -40%  square foot  Liters per  -60%  million dollar  revenue  Liters per  -80%  employee  -100%   2015  2016  2017  2018  2019  2020  2021  2022  2023   Line graph showing Visa's change in potable water use relative to 2015 across four categories, including: liters, liters per square foot, liters per million  dollar revenue and liters per employee. The graph shows the"
"percentage change between 2015 and 2023. There has been a year-over-year increase  in potable water use since 2021, following several years of decreased use. However, all four categories remain below the 2015 baseline in 2023.  Waste by Destination  Achieved a landfill  diversion rate of nearly   50 percent, or 65 kg of  waste diverted from  landfill per employee.2  17%  Recycle/  Reuse          Donut chart showing Visa's waste, divided by destination, for 2023. 48% of waste was landfilled, 30%"
"omposted, 17% recycled or reused  and 5% incinerated.  2. Diversion rate per employee is calculated based on the total amount of Visa’s operational waste that is diverted from the landfill  and incineration facilities in the reporting year divided by the total number of employees.  48%  Landﬁll  30%  Composted  5%  Incinerated  2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2015 2016 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Reclaimed Potable 331.7 18% 23% 28% 25% 26% 30% 46% 41% 36% 82% 77% 72% 75% 74% 70% 54% 59%"
"64% 357.4 312.7 339.1 340.9 310.7 270.9 301.1 365.0                                Visa Global  Print Project  In 2022, we introduced the Visa Global Print  project, an initiative designed to reduce  the number of pages printed in our offices  worldwide and part of our broader corporate  sustainability goals.  The benefits of the project include:  • Enhancing security by requiring users to tap  their badges to print all documents.  • Increasing convenience and productivity  by allowing users to"
"release their documents  from any enabled device without mapping  to multiple printers.  • Reducing printing costs and environmental  impact by restricting the default setting to  double sided printing and using black and  white rather than color.  Through enacting these simple changes,  we were able to avoid printing over four million  total pages in FY23—over 40 percent of total  pages sent to print—saving paper, toner and  energy and approximately 60 percent reduced  cost for Visa."
"Sustainable Movement   Beyond our own operations, Visa supports the global  movement toward more sustainable commerce and  consumption, guided by our aspiration to become a  climate-positive company. Our approach includes the  following areas of focus:  • Research and insights: Supporting and conducting  research to understand barriers to and drivers of  sustainable living behaviors and the role that payments  can play in advancing sustainable consumption.  • Sustainable Behaviors: Supporting"
"sustainable  behaviors, such as in mobility and travel, on a global  scale, with the aim to support the shift in spend across  the categories of live, move, eat, travel, buy and invest.  • Consumer Engagement: Participating in consumer  engagement initiatives to make sustainable living more  attractive, rewarding and attainable.  • Public Policy and Industry Engagement: Contributing  to the public policy arena, as well as major public  and private sector convenings, to advocate for more"
"sustainable commerce and climate action.  Research & Insights  Visa’s approach to supporting the shift of spend toward  a more green and inclusive economy begins with our  efforts to help the broader payments and commerce  ecosystem understand the barriers to and drivers  of sustainable living behaviors—particularly among  consumers—and the opportunities for digital payments  to support a low-carbon economy.  Our 2023 highlights include:  • For the fifth year, Visa participated as a design"
"partner  in GlobeScan’s Healthy and Sustainable Living Study,  which focused on consumer attitudes, opinions and  behaviors linked to healthier and more sustainable  lifestyles in over 30 markets.  • Visa continued to conduct and disseminate additional  research in select markets regarding the intersection of  consumers, sustainable living and payments accounts.  Results continue to be shared with clients and partners  to inform sustainable payments offerings.  • Visa continued our support of"
"ThoughtLab on its  worldwide benchmarking study to analyze how  cities are future-proofing their urban environments.  The study investigated the progress of 200 cities  representing five percent of the world population across  digital infrastructure, living and health, transportation  and other critical urban domains, as well as the level of  transformation each city believed it required to meet  future urban demands. Tools developed from the study  are available on ThoughtLab’s Building a"
"Future- Ready  City microsite.  • In Visa’s latest Talk of The Town Report, we examined  nearly 900 towns across the U.K. to identify their vitality  using five key indicators—economic prosperity, people  and skills, infrastructure, business environment and  sustainability. The report looks to establish a research  foundation on which we can begin a broader program  of work that will ultimately bring together businesses,  partners and policymakers to drive forward economic  success in towns,"
"engage industries, governments and  other sectors, identify a scope of consensus among key  stakeholders and build a coalition around key policy ideas.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 56                         • A 2023 Visa Global Economic Insight report on fashion  resale apps shed light on consumers’ changing  preferences in the world of fashion as a result of  multiple, converging trends, including growing concern  about the state of the planet, efforts to set policy"
"around resource efficiency and waste management  and high inflation. The report predicts that these  evolving consumer behaviors, catalyzed by emerging  technologies such as AI and blockchain, could usher  in the next wave of the circular economy.  • The Visa Economic Empowerment Institute  thought leadership agenda continues to include  topics that focus on the expansion of more sustainable  commerce, including opportunities to accelerate  public-private collaboration to drive sustainable"
"outcomes in travel and tourism, as well as the  positive impact of digital payments on the shift  to more sustainable urban mobility.  We leverage our global network  to make it easier, more rewarding  and more accessible for people  and businesses to adopt  behaviors that help accelerate the  transition to a sustainable future.  Sustainable Spend & Money Movement  To support the overall sustainable living movement,   Visa continues working in areas where we believe we can   help enable specific"
"sustainable behaviors, including: Transit  Visa is working to bring digital payments to people's  door-to-door transit journeys to help reduce emissions  and address climate change. Visa has partnered  with transit agencies in cities worldwide, supporting  sustainable mobility through contactless ticketing and  fare payment solutions.  Global Tap to Ride transactions were 1.6 billion for FY23,  up more than 30 percent, and we added nearly 150 new  transit systems throughout the year, including"
"systems in  Philadelphia and Bangkok, which brought our footprint to  more than 750 systems.  In Costa Rica, Visa has actively supported the government  in its priorities to digitize mass transit use. Over 3.8  million trips have been made using Visa to ride in Costa  Rican buses and trains, as of December 2023. Visa is  also supporting the Ministry of Economy, Industry and  Commerce in providing business skills, including how  to leverage digital payments, to SMEs through a digital  training"
"platform launched in January 2024.  In Lisbon, Visa Acceptance Solutions helped  Metropolitano de Lisboa became the first operator in  Portugal to enable contactless payments, which are now  available at over 50 stations and 750 gates. This new,  seamless payment experience encourages more riders  to choose this environmentally friendly travel option. In  addition to being more convenient, the smarter system  also helps passengers save money by automatically  charging the most economical fare"
"for their journey.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 57           Electric Vehicles  The use of EVs is growing rapidly and, as charging infrastructure grows to meet demand,  the payment experience continues to be fragmented for customers. Visa is working to  create interoperable, secure and seamless EV payment experiences. Visa is working  toward simplifying payments for EV charging to help further drive the adoption of  zero-emission vehicles.  In 2023, Visa continued our"
"membership in CharIN, an international charging initiative  working with all parts of the e-mobility value chain.  Additionally, Visa continued our partnership with JustPark to boost EV adoption by  rewarding use and supporting expansion of the JustCharge network of community  EV charging points. This allowed charging in neighborhoods and at residences,  expanding the network of available charging stations for public use.  In Europe, Visa worked to support the development and expansion of EV"
"charging points  in compliance with the Alternative Fuel Infrastructure Regulation, which requires all EV  charging stations to accept card and contactless payments. Visa built upon efforts in  Europe to continue partnerships with transit agencies worldwide to help launch projects,  supporting sustainable mobility through contactless ticketing and fare payment solutions.  We also advised EU clients through our Sustainability Advisory arm on their EV strategies  and created market-reports, as"
"well as using Visa’s transaction data to provide insights on  trends around EV usage and propensity.  Visa has multiple initiatives related to promoting  EV charging payments, including:   A circular, wheel-like infographic that represents Visa's Electric Vehicle payments initiative. Divided into 11 spokes, it reads, moving clockwise: (1)  Public charging acceptance: Increasing interoperability and open-payment solutions across EV chargers; (2) Utilities: Working with utility companies  for"
"optimal solutions; (3) Payment and authorization: Help support open payment solutions and expanding authorization models; (4) Fleet  enhancements: Enhancing transaction data to fit the business needs f hybrid and Electric Vehicle fleets; (5) Visa A ceptance Platform: Off-the shelf acceptance platform for Electric Vehicle charging operators; (6) Customer profiles: Identifying h w EV owners shop compared to others; (7)  Loyalty, offers and co-branding: Developing dedicated programs; (8) Innovation"
"and standards: Developing new payment solutions and establishing  interoperability standards; (9) Government engagement: Engagement with national, regional and local governments and authorities; (10) Electric  Vehicles & urban mobility: Connecting Electric Vehicles with the broader urban mobility ecosystem; and (11) Industry participation: Participating in  Electric Vehicle mobility initiative such as CharIn.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 58  Public charging"
"acceptance Increasing  interoperability  and open-payment  solutions across  EV chargers Industry  participation Participating in  Electric Vehicle  mobility initiatives  such as CharIN Utilities Working with utility  companies for  optimal solutions Electric Vehicles  & urban mobility Connecting Electric  Vehicles with the  broader urban  mobility ecosystem Payment and  authorization Help support open  payment solutions  and expanding  authorization models Government  engagement Engagement with"
"national, regional and  local governments  and authorities Visa’s Electric  Vehicle payments  initiative Fleet enhancements Enhancing transaction  data to ﬁt the business  needs of hybrid and  Electric Vehicle ﬂeets Innovation  and standards Developing new  payment solutions  and establishing  interoperability  standards Visa Acceptance  Platform Oﬀ-the-shelf  acceptance platform  for Electric Vehicle  charging operators Loyalty, oﬀers  and co-branding Developing  dedicated programs Customer"
"proﬁles Identifying how EV  owners shop  compared to others                                Sustainable Travel & Tourism  We believe in using our network to help enable a  sustainable travel and tourism ecosystem that is  more transparent, inclusive, seamless and rewarding  for consumers, clients and governments.  Key programs include:  • Coalitions & Councils: Visa participates in organizations  that aim to shape the enabling and B2B environment  and accelerate the transition to more sustainable"
"tourism. Our engagements include Travalyst, WEF,  United Eco-Skies Alliance, Resilient Cities Network  and Clean Skies for Tomorrow.  • Visa “For” Programs: Visa partners with municipal  governments to help combat overtourism and preserve  culturally significant destinations. Examples include  Visa “For” Athens and Visa “For” Venice.  • Visa Consulting and Analytics (VCA) Sustainability  Advisory: Visa provides consultative services, primarily  focused on the consumer travel journey.  •"
"Research: Visa supports research designed to  deepen industry knowledge and direction through  sustainable travel research, including the Global  Travel Intentions Study and Globescan Healthy and  Sustainable Living Study.  Recommerce  There are multiple ways for governments, businesses and  consumers to reduce their impact on the environment.  One area that is scaling is the circular economy, a systems  solution framework that is crucial to reducing emissions  and achieving national and global"
"targets.  Visa is taking action to foster sustainable commerce by  enabling more sustainable choices for individuals and  businesses in an effort to accelerate the transition from  a linear to a circular economy. A focus on circularity goes  further than just carbon cutting—it creates an opportunity  to build a thriving economy based on three principles:  eliminate waste and pollution, circulate products and  materials and regenerate nature. These principles have  the power to tackle global"
"challenges, including to  mitigate climate change and biodiversity loss, create jobs,  regenerate cities, towns and communities and  build resilience and prosperity.  Visa, with the support of Strategic Partner, the  Ellen MacArthur Foundation, recently launched the  Recommerce Behavioral Insight Lab, an initiative running  rapid, real-world experiments to understand and share  how businesses can help consumers actively engage in  the transition to a more circular economy. We are working  with"
"partners to test and identify business models in  experiments that focus on resale, rental, repair, refill,  return and redistribution, that encourage consumers  to participate in the circular economy—with the aim  of closing the intent-to-action gap when it comes to  sustainable habits. Findings from our lab will be openly  shared with SMBs to help them better understand  customer preferences and unlock the economic potential  of the circular economy.  Our work in Recommerce space ranges from"
"helping  establish the commercial business case and working  with governments and business partners to help SMBs  get quicker access to funds to encouraging innovation  in emerging recommerce business models with  payment solutions.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 59   Fostering More Sustainable Behaviors  Through Innovative Recycling Initiatives  TOMRA and Shift4  In early 2024, Visa announced a new partnership with TOMRA, a Norwegian corporation  specializing in"
"collection and sorting technology that provides instant payouts for a new,  innovative system for reusable takeaway packaging.  In collaboration with Shift4, a global leader in integrated payments and commerce  technology, the strategic partnership aims to empower consumers to adopt sustainable  choices while enjoying financial rewards.  Through this alliance, Visa, TOMRA and Shift4 are hoping to foster sustainable behaviors  by changing the way individuals participate in reuse efforts. The"
"collaboration is a step  toward a circular economy, where technology, finance and environmental consciousness  converge for a more sustainable future.  Rheaply  In the U.S., Visa and Rheaply launched a free-to-join reuse marketplace in the D.C. area,  open to any business or non-profit. This is the first of three marketplaces by Visa giving  unused workplace items a new life while benefiting fellow businesses and the planet.  This program has the potential to divert millions of pounds of waste"
"from landfills—  retaining and recirculating value in the local economy and displacing critical embodied  carbon emissions in the process.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 60                     Consumer Engagement  Visa believes that the transition to sustainable commerce  and behaviors requires participation in and support of  consumer engagement initiatives. In 2023, Visa:  • Announced a new partnership designed to support  SMBs in their transition to green and"
"sustainable  packaging solutions. Together, Visa and our partner will  make $1 million accessible to qualifying restaurants in  New York, Los Angeles, London, Paris and Madrid to be  used toward funding sustainable packaging solutions  to help transition to a greener future.  • Continued to serve as a Founding Partner of and  contributor to Brands for Good, an initiative of  Sustainable Brands focused on building a movement  among leading brands to make sustainable living more  attractive,"
"rewarding and attainable.  Global Policy & Industry Engagement  At Visa, we believe in the importance of supporting public  policy dialogue and engagement as part of our approach  to sustainable commerce, decarbonization and net-zero.  In 2023, we:  • Participated in COP27 (Egypt) and COP28 (Dubai) global  climate convenings, spanning fiscal and calendar year  2023. At these summits, Visa delegates participated in  panel discussions on sustainability mobility, engaging  consumers, circular"
"economy, climate adaptation and  disaster relief and innovations in digital payments.  • Responded to the President’s Emergency Plan for  Adaptation and Resilience (PREPARE) Call to Action to  the Private Sector, an initiative by the U.S. Department  of State and U.S. Agency for International Development  (USAID) to mobilize the private sector to address  climate resilience around the world.  • Participated in Climate Week, an annual climate- focused convening hosted in conjunction with the"
"United Nations General Assembly.  • Continued our participation in the sustainability  and environmental-focused committees of our  leading trade associations, including the Energy and  Environment Coordinating Committee of the Business  Roundtable, the Sustainable Finance Working Group  of the Institute for International Finance and various  working groups of the Information Technology  Industry Council.  • Contributed to the programs and initiatives of other  leading coalitions, including the"
"World Business Council  for Sustainable Development, the World Economic  Forum and the We Mean Business Coalition.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 61                   Climate Tech Solutions Technology can be a powerful tool in fostering a green  transition, enabling direct links and information exchange  with consumers. Visa is building the crucial infrastructure  to better understand consumer behaviors’ impact on the  climate based on their spending behavior and"
"empower  shifts toward more sustainable options, ultimately  encouraging and rewarding more sustainable choices.  Visa’s expanded portfolio of sustainability-focused  solutions supports broader sustainable commerce and  spending choices. We strive to accelerate the transition  to a low-carbon economy by enabling cardholders,  merchants, financial institutions and governments to  adopt more sustainable choices. Our approach includes  the following focus areas:  • Sustainability Advisory Practice:"
"Our cross-functional  practice supporting clients to navigate their current  sustainability strategy, develop their roadmap and  launch products that enable their customers and  corporate clients in the transition to a lower- carbon economy.  • Data Products & Models: Helping clients adopt a  data-driven approach to sustainability through  internally developed solutions, effective segmentation,  predictive behavior capability and reward insights.  • Partner Solutions: Increasing sustainability"
"awareness, engagement and inspiring actions for  consumer and commercial card portfolios, including  merchant business.  Sustainability Advisory Practice  Visa offers sustainability advisory through a combination  of Visa Global Sustainability Solutions and Visa Consulting  and Analytics.  Services include partnering with clients to develop their  sustainability vision and strategy, conducting current state  assessments, value proposition development and helping  to implement and launch products"
"that enable consumers  and corporates to play their part in the shift to net zero.  For many Visa clients, a key focus is also to reduce their  financed emissions; e.g., by creating products that reduce  their own scope 3 emissions. Visa’s sustainability advisory  practice was fully launched in FY23.  Data Products & Models  Visa has developed data products and models designed  to support efforts to benchmark, segment and predict  climate positive transactions for payments and other  products."
"One such solution is Visa Sustainability  Index, designed to provide estimates for carbon  emissions, sustainability benchmarks and perspectives  on sustainable cardholder segments via VisaNet data.  Combined with external sources on carbon emissions  of various sectors and products, this tool estimates the  general carbon emissions intensity per purchase and   helps individuals and businesses to better understand   the impact of their transactions on the environment.  Partner Solutions  As a"
"global payments network, we believe we can play  an important role in helping consumers and businesses  shift to more sustainable behaviors through our efforts to  embed sustainable features in payment accounts. We are  working to increase awareness, engagement and action  for consumer and commercial card portfolios, including  merchant businesses. Specific offerings and partnership- powered solutions include:  ecolytiq:  A sustainability-as-a-service solution, typically integrated  into a"
"mobile banking app, designed to build awareness  and engagement with the customer and encourage more  sustainable choices. Ecolytiq analyzes payment data to  form a picture of an individual’s environmental footprint  while encouraging the user to take action to reduce or  offset the user’s emissions and drive behavior change.  Cloverly:  A climate-action technology platform that streamlines  access to carbon credits worldwide. Cloverly is the  infrastructure for products to become climate-"
"positive  through a scalable solution that enables businesses and  consumers to take direct action toward climate change.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 62                               Lune:  A software company focused on carbon offsetting. Using Lune’s API, Visa clients  can get access to Lune’s library of carbon projects. Lune offers both a platform  to directly purchase carbon credits as well as an API to easily embed climate  action into any product. Through the"
"API, financial institutions and merchants  can provide their clients and customers with access to carbon offsetting options  in the user experience.  Plan A:  A sustainability platform empowering financial institutions to scale their sustainability  with an end-to-end carbon management platform. The Software-as-a-Service solution  automates emissions and ESG data collection and impact analysis, providing individual  emissions profiles as well as granular insights in dynamic dashboard overviews."
"The platform allows for science-based net-zero target-setting and decarbonisation  planning all to enable businesses to reduce their operational and value chain emissions.  Visa Climate Tech Services in Practice   Tarjeta Débito Amazonía  A consumer debit card from the Banco de Bogotá that  allows consumers to donate 1 percent of the value of their  purchases to support the reforestation and restoration  of the Amazon with local communities. The Visa branded  debit card makes supporting the"
"reforestation of the  Amazon seamless for consumers.  Rewards Programs  & Carbon Reduction  We aim to use our partnerships with solutions providers  to encourage low-carbon consumption behaviors.  Through the products we encourage our cardholders  to use, as well as the use of rewards and loyalty programs,  we can support consumers to choose more sustainable  items such as organic food or flights with a lower  emissions footprint.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 63"
"Operating Responsibly 2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 64                                                         Corporate Governance Visa’s corporate governance practices help promote  long-term value and strong Board and management  accountability to our diverse set of stakeholders. Our  Board of Directors oversees important governance  issues, including risk management, board composition  and refreshment, executive and Board compensation,  management succession and"
"CR&S matters.  We regularly monitor our corporate governance  policies and practices to confirm we meet or exceed  the requirements of applicable laws, the New York Stock  Exchange’s listing standards and that we are responsive  to stockholders. Visa’s corporate governance framework,  including our Corporate Governance Guidelines,  exemplifies our commitment to these requirements.  Board Structure  Effective February 1, 2023, the Board of Directors  appointed Ryan Mclnerney as Visa’s Chief"
"Executive  Officer (CEO), and former CEO Alfred F. Kelly, Jr. assumed  the role of Executive Chair. The Board of Directors  appointed Mr. McInerney to the Board effective upon his  transition to CEO.  In January 2024, Mr. Kelly retired as Chair of Visa’s  Board of Directors and John F. Lundgren assumed the  role of independent Board Chair. The Board periodically  reviews the Board’s leadership structure and its  appropriateness, given the needs of the Board and  the company at such time.  In"
"2023, Visa welcomed one new independent director  to the Board, Pamela Murphy.  Visa’s Corporate Governance Guidelines establish  various limits for our directors serving on publicly traded  company boards and audit committees. We limit our  directors to serving on four publicly traded company  boards (including Visa) or two for executive officers of  publicly traded companies (including Visa). The Board  may grant exceptions to established limits on a case-by- case basis.  Our Board and each of"
"its committees conduct an  annual evaluation, facilitated by an independent third  party, which includes a qualitative assessment by  each director of the performance of the Board and the  committee or committees on which the director sits.  The Board also conducts an annual peer review to assess  individual director performance. The Nominating and  Corporate Governance Committee oversees the annual  evaluation process in conjunction with the independent  Board Chair.  Our current Board"
"committees include Audit and Risk,  Compensation, Finance and Nominating and Corporate  Governance. All four Board committees are composed  solely of independent directors. Each committee  operates pursuant to a written charter, available on the  Investor Relations page of our website.  Board Education & Training  In addition to regular meetings of the Board and its  committees, in 2023 we offered several optional  informational sessions for directors on key business  topics. Visa encourages"
"directors to pursue ongoing  educational opportunities, including programs that  cover CR&S topics, and provides cost reimbursement  in accordance with our guidelines.  Board Diversity  Visa strives to reflect the diversity of our global key  constituencies in the makeup of our Board, including  clients, customers, employees, business partners and  stockholders. To support this objective, the Nominating  and Corporate Governance Committee considers  women and candidates from underrepresented"
"groups  in the pool from which the Committee considers director  candidates. As of January 23, 2024, Visa’s overall board  diversity (gender, race and ethnicity) is 73 percent.  The Board is 36 percent gender diverse and 36 percent  racially/ethnically diverse.  Compensation Program  The compensation program for our named executive  officers (NEOs) helps us attract and retain key talent  and promote performance that enhances stockholder  value and drives long-term strategic outcomes for Visa,"
"including our broader CR&S efforts.  Three primary principles guide our compensation  program design and administration:  • Pay for performance  • Promote alignment with stakeholders’ interests  • Attract, motivate and retain key talent  We tie a substantial portion of our NEOs’ target annual  compensation to the achievement of pre-established  financial and non-financial objectives that support  our business strategy, balancing short- and long-term  performance goals. Further, our annual"
"incentive plan  incorporates CR&S metrics that are tied to the company’s  strategic objectives.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 65   Our FY23 annual incentive scorecard included,   among other topics, goals related to cybersecurity,   risk management, technology, M&A integration,   small and micro business digital enablement,  sustainability, employee volunteering, social impact,  inclusion and diversity and employee representation   and talent initiatives.  The same"
"scorecard is also used to determine the annual  funding for Visa’s broad-based employee bonus plan.  Snapshot of 2024 Director Nominees  Our director nominees exhibit an effective mix of diversity, experience and perspectives.  independent 91%    36%  diverse  36%  women  Director Independence  Gender Diversity  Racial/Ethnic Diversity  4.9 Years  Average Tenure  73%  Total Diversity  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 66                        Ethics & Compliance At Visa,"
"we understand the importance of doing business  the right way. It is a key part of how we make the world  better, together. We work to maintain the trust of our  stakeholders through a culture of honesty and integrity.  Visa’s global ethics and compliance program provides  processes and controls to manage legal and regulatory  risk, drive an ethical culture and empower the business  to achieve Visa’s objectives legally and with integrity. The  Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer, along with"
"business  leadership, is responsible for Visa’s global ethics and  compliance program.  Our commitment to ethics and compliance is captured in  our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code), which  applies to everyone working for or on behalf of Visa,  including employees, contingent staff and the Board of  Directors. All staff are required to complete annual ethics  and compliance training, which helps us sharpen our  knowledge and skills and make our actions and decisions  reflect the Code."
"In 2023, Visa once again achieved a 100 percent  completion rate for all eligible Visa employees.  We continued to use an interactive microsite with data  analytic capabilities, allowing employees to perform  keyword searches of the Code. Visa also launched  a personalized Code of Conduct training assigned  specifically to people leaders that focused on the skills  they need given the important role they play in amplifying  our culture of integrity.  Required trainings in FY23 included:  • Anti-"
"Money Laundering and Sanctions  • Anti-Bribery  • Anti-Trust and Competition Laws  • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics  • Responsible Data Use  • Key Controls  • Prevention of Workplace Harassment & Discrimination  The Code includes a supplemental Code of Ethics for  Certain Executives and Financial Officers, which requires  senior officers to engage in honest and ethical conduct in  performing their duties and provides guidelines for the  ethical handling of conflicts of interest and"
"reporting of  unethical conduct.  Additionally, the Visa Supplier Code of Conduct  (Supplier Code) and Modern Slavery Act Transparency  Statement explain our expectations and values to  suppliers. For more, see Responsible Sourcing.  We maintain a confidential anonymous compliance  hotline, operated by a third party, to allow anyone to share  questions, concerns or comments online or by phone,  24 hours a day, seven days a week. Additionally, our  “Speak Up” culture aims to empower employees to"
"report  misconduct, and our Global Ethical Manager Toolkit helps  leaders engage in team discussions related to ethics.  Ethical behavior is an integral part of our culture at Visa.  To reinforce this mindset, in FY23, we implemented an  Ethics and Compliance Charter to define what the Visa  ethics and compliance program does and aims to achieve.  Through the Charter, employees can access key details on  Visa’s ethics and compliance program and team.  In FY23, we hosted our third annual Ethics"
"in Action week  and expanded it to all five of Visa’s geographic regions.  Ethics in Action week is a full week of global activities for  employees featuring panels, podcasts, interactive virtual  games and interviews with industry leaders, as well as  daily challenges to engage employees. The theme in FY23  was “It All Starts with You,” and the events and activities  were designed to reinforce how each person at Visa is  responsible for doing the right thing and maintaining our  culture of"
"integrity.  Visa’s Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer hosted the  “Doing the Right Thing” speaker series, featuring personal  conversations with Visa leaders on what ethics and  integrity means to them and how the Visa Leadership  Principles play out at work and in their lives.  We also expanded our Ethical Ambassador program  across all five of Visa’s regions. The Ethical Ambassador  program seeks to encourage peer-to-peer collaboration  and support on ethics topics and concerns. These"
"initiatives highlight Visa’s culture of ethical behavior and  allow all team members to take part in activities promoting  these values.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 67                               Engaging With Governments Visa measures and monitors ethical behavior with  Regional Scorecard metrics that have direct impact  on performance rating decisions and associated bonuses  for certain business leaders. Every quarter, our Regional  Ethics and Compliance Leaders"
"are to review the status  of progress against agreed upon goals with the regional  president and country managers and report at year-end  on achievement of those goals to the Visa CEO.  We continue to strengthen our approach to embed  ethics and compliance into enterprise-wide  management processes.  In 2024, Visa was recognized  by the Ethisphere Institute  as one of the World’s Most  Ethical Companies for the 12th  consecutive year.  Visa actively engages with governments, policymakers  and"
"other key stakeholders at a global level to help shape  the future of digital payments. Through our partnerships,  we find opportunities to drive digital transformation and  further enable access to financial services.  Visa’s participation in industry advocacy events enables  our global government engagement team to showcase  the progress Visa is making to advance more secure  payment technologies and highlight ongoing innovation  in the payments ecosystem.  Our approach is designed to help"
"policymakers  understand the payments industry and underscores  Visa’s local and global actions to accelerate the growth  of electronic payments and promote digital equity  and inclusion.  Through Visa University, we provide training and outreach  programs to governments and policymakers around  the world to allow us to foster the exchange of ideas on  legal and economic aspects of digital financial services.  Further, Visa engages in strategic partnerships with a  wide range of local, national,"
"international and multilateral  organizations, universities, think tanks and other policy  organizations to share perspectives and contribute  to policy dialogue on topics including the future of  payments, small business enablement, sustainability  and digital equity and inclusion.  Transparent Political Involvement  Visa remains committed to transparent political  involvement. Our annual Visa Corporate Political  Contributions Report includes a listing of all U.S. trade  associations to which"
"Visa pays annual membership dues  that are $25,000 or more and, if applicable, the portion  of dues that were used for political expenditures.  In the U.S., Visa discloses contributions made by Visa’s  Political Action Committee (Visa PAC) in accordance with  the requirements of the Federal Election Commission.  Visa’s global Political Participation, Lobbying and  Contributions Policy is annually updated on Visa.com   and aims to:  • Promote ethical and transparent political engagement  by Visa."
"• Ensure that Visa’s political spending enhances  stockholder value.  • Facilitate Visa’s compliance with applicable laws and  reporting requirements addressing political activity.  • Align Visa’s government engagement activities in  support of Visa’s corporate purpose to uplift everyone,  everywhere by being the best way to pay and be paid.  In 2023, Visa received a 100%  rating on the CPA–Zicklin Index  of Corporate Political Disclosure  and Accountability and was  recognized as a"
"“Trendsetter”  for the eighth consecutive year.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 68             Visa operates globally and seeks to comply with   applicable laws, regulations and requirements,   including those related to tax, around the world.   Tax Compliance & Governance   Relationships are at the heart of Visa’s business. We  know that trust must be continuously earned, and we are  committed to being a transparent and reliable partner  in business, in engagement with"
"governments and in  the communities we serve. Visa operates globally and  seeks to comply with applicable laws, regulations and  requirements, including those related to tax, around  the world.  A global team of tax professionals, in close coordination  with business units, manages tax affairs in every Visa  region. Everyone working for, or on behalf of, Visa shares  a responsibility to follow our Code and work with integrity.  At Visa, we do not tolerate tax evasion or the facilitation  of tax"
"evasion.  Tax oversight resides with the executive management  team, including relevant oversight committees and the  Board of Directors. The Senior Vice President, Global Tax  is responsible for the global management of tax risks and  provides updates regarding corporate tax strategy, risks  to our business and effective tax rate directly to the Chief  Financial Officer and also at least annually to the Audit and  Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. The Global Tax  Leadership Team reports"
"to the Senior Vice President,  Global Tax and is responsible for implementing tax  strategy in every region.  At Visa, we seek to follow the letter of the law and adhere  to the spirit of tax laws. Visa aims to adhere to our values,  honor our commitments and avoid activities that could  adversely affect our reputation. Under our policies,  we make tax planning decisions throughout our global  operations in a manner that is consistent with Visa’s  commercial business and economic activities."
"Visa’s statement on tax compliance, governance and  our effective income tax rate is available on our corporate  website under Operating Responsibly.  202 023 C 3 Corporate R e Responsibility & S y & Sustainability R y Report | 6 t | 69                   Responsible Sourcing Our commitment to operate responsibly and sustainably  extends beyond Visa operations to our suppliers and  business partners.  In 2023, we refreshed our Supplier Code to provide  guidance on Visa’s expanded expectations for"
"suppliers  in the areas of conflicts of interest, modern slavery,  employment and wages, supplier diversity, supplier gifts  and entertainment, compliance and audit rights and  environmental sustainability. The updated Supplier Code  was reviewed and approved by Visa’s executive team,  including Visa’s Chief Financial Officer and Global Head of  Sourcing. Going forward, we aim to review the Supplier  Code on a biennial basis.  All Visa suppliers receive the Supplier Code as part of the"
"onboarding process. We reference the Supplier Code in  our global governing agreements with suppliers and in our  Global Sourcing Policy. The Supplier Code is also publicly  available on Visa’s website.  When identifying new suppliers to work with Visa,  we aim to partner with suppliers that meet our business  needs, align with our purpose, help drive progress toward  our goals and share Visa’s respect for human rights.  We align our expectations with international human rights  standards such"
"as the Universal Declaration of Human  Rights. Suppliers' approaches to managing human rights  risks should be consistent with the United Nations Guiding  Principles on Business and Human Rights (U.N. Guiding  Principles). We expect our suppliers to comply with all  applicable legal requirements related to human rights.  We include responsible sourcing questions regarding  environmental, diversity, accessibility and social  responsibility criteria in requests for proposals,  information and"
"quotations. We then evaluate these  criteria as part of the supplier selection process. In 2023,  Visa continued to engage prospective and existing  suppliers to understand their current integration of various  CR&S topics and plans to improve.  To monitor suppliers’ social and environmental  performance and alignment with our global Supplier  Code, we continue to partner with leading supply chain- focused organizations to assess and manage sustainability  practices within our supply chain."
"Visa has also expanded its engagement with our top  suppliers around climate change and other environmental  issues through membership in the CDP Supply Chain  initiative. For more, please refer to the Protecting the  Planet chapter of this report.  Supplier Diversity  Expanding engagement with diverse suppliers can add  value to our brand, provide a competitive advantage and  reflect our customer base. We strive to include inclusion  and diversity provisions in new sourcing agreements  in North"
"America operations and work with qualified  suppliers who fully meet the criteria established in our  Supplier Diversity Program.  Visa partners with a third-party supplier to provide  information on diverse supplier certifications, helping  us to report more accurately with independently  validated data.  To further Visa’s commitment to inclusion and diversity  in the communities where we live and work, Visa’s Chief  Diversity Officer sponsored an initiative to support  Visa's diverse suppliers"
"without certifications to obtain  certification from an established certification body. This  effort not only benefits Visa’s supplier diversity goals  but may also help make these diverse suppliers more  marketable for engagements with other organizations.  In 2023, we continued our Supplier Diversity Program  for the U.S., which included goals to increase spend  with diverse Tier 1 suppliers, maintain the number of  diverse suppliers within our supplier ecosystem and  incorporate diverse"
"suppliers in Global Sourcing RFx  opportunities. Our progress is reported internally to  Visa executive management on a quarterly basis,  identifying achievements and opportunities for  continuous improvement.  In addition, we evolved governing agreements to include  language requesting increased diversity within account  teams supporting Visa’s business. We also encourage our  Prime (non-diverse) suppliers to establish relationships  with small and diverse suppliers, and request that key  Prime"
"suppliers provide quarterly reporting of their Tier 2  diverse spend.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 70   2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 71 Visa invests in tools and memberships with diverse  supplier advocacy and certification organizations,  including the National Minority Supplier Development  Council (NMSDC), Women’s Business Enterprise National  Council (WBENC), National Gay & Lesbian Chamber of  Commerce (NGLCC), Financial Services"
"Roundtable for  Supplier Diversity, Women's Business Enterprise Council  West (WBENCW), the Western Regional Minority Supplier  Development Council (WRMSDC) and Disability:IN. In 2023, Visa partnered with its  accounts payable team to create  flexible payment terms for small  and diverse suppliers to get funds  in the hands of these suppliers  faster. These flexible payment  terms allow Visa to better  support cash flow-dependent  small businesses. Human Rights We seek to respect and, where"
"possible, promote human  rights across our company, operations and supply chain,  including rights identified in the Universal Declaration of  Human Rights and the International Labour Organization  Declaration on the Fundamental Principles and Rights  at Work. Visa’s approach to respecting human rights is  informed by the U.N. Guiding Principles. Our approach is led by the Inclusive Impact and  Sustainability team and Head of Corporate Responsibility  in coordination with a cross-functional"
"working group that  oversees our overall approach, including risk identification,  mitigation and due diligence strategy. We share our progress with members of the Visa  executive team and Board of Directors on a regular basis.  The Board’s Nominating and Corporate Governance  Committee is responsible for providing human rights  oversight as part of its overarching CR&S responsibility,   as detailed in the Committee’s Charter. In 2023, we launched a refresh of our human rights  saliency"
"assessment in partnership with a leading third- party firm (the assessors). The assessment is a global,  corporate-wide effort to identify and review salient  human rights risks resulting from our operations, network,  supply chain, partnerships and sponsorships, conducted  in accordance with the U.N. Guiding Principles.  During the 2023 assessment, the assessors examined the  salient human rights risks and impacts most relevant to: • Supply Chain Workers: Risks related to procurement  of goods"
"(e.g., servers) and services (e.g., building  services). • Employees and contractors: Risks related to Visa’s  global workforce and contractors. • Data subjects: Risks related to rights-holders on whom  Visa or Visa’s enterprise customers hold data. • End users and customers: Risks related to the use or  misuse of Visa’s products and services. • Communities and society: Risks related to Visa’s role  in operating communities and broader societal changes  with human rights relevance. The"
"assessment informs our global human rights strategy,  which focuses on mitigating risks emanating from Visa’s  role as a/an: • Employer: We acknowledge and respect the human  rights of each employee. Our Code outlines our policies  and expectations regarding employee protections and  freedoms, including privacy, expression, association  and maintaining a workplace safe from retaliation.  Policies contributing to the respect of human rights of  our employees include Prevention of Harassment and"
"Discrimination Policy, Safety, Health and Environmental  Policy, Whistleblower Policy and Non-Retaliation Policy.  See Investing in Our People for more information. • Purchaser: We acknowledge and respect the human  rights of workers in our supply chain. Our Supplier Code  outlines our expectations for suppliers, including safe  working conditions and respect for human rights.   Each year, Visa publishes a Modern Slavery Act  Transparency Statement, which is approved by our  Board of Directors."
"Visa’s sourcing, legal and vendor   risk management teams are responsible for                 risk management teams are responsible for  implementing, assessing and enforcing compliance  with the Supplier Code. Our sourcing teams also receive  training on human rights.  • E-Payments Enabler: As financial crimes can support  and contribute to human rights abuses such as  human trafficking, we are committed to preventing  illegal activities on our network. See Transaction  Integrity for more"
"information.  • Business Partner and Sponsor: We incorporate  respect for human rights into the expectations  of and engagement with our partnerships and  sponsorships, including issues at the intersection  of sport and human rights.  Grievance Mechanisms  & Remediation Process  We are committed to providing access to appropriate  remedy when we are made aware of adverse human  rights impacts linked to our operations. Visa maintains a  Confidential Compliance Hotline, which is operated by a"
"third party and is accessible online or by phone, 24 hours  a day, seven days a week. The Hotline enables anyone to  raise a concern regarding actual or suspected violations  of Visa’s Code, other policies and applicable laws,  including those related to human rights. All whistleblower  complaints submitted through the Hotline are reviewed  by the Business Conduct Office.  Our goal is to ensure a safe and respectful environment  where everyone can do their best work. When we learn  of a"
"potential violation of the Code or other Visa policy  by Visa staff, it is our policy to conduct a confidential,  professional investigation. We address misconduct  through a formal resolution process. Confirmed violations  of our Code and other company policy will result in  corrective action. We prohibit retaliation against anyone  who participates in an investigation or raises a concern in  good faith, and under our policy retaliation will result in  disciplinary action, up to and including"
"termination  of employment.  Centre for Sport & Human Rights  As a sponsor of major sports bodies and events, Visa  remains a proud founding supporter and Advisory Council  member of the Centre for Sport and Human Rights (CSHR).  Launched in 2018, CSHR announced a strategic plan  for the period 2021–2025. CSHR’s approach is rooted in  engaging the sports ecosystem to promote international  standards, including the U.N. Guiding Principles. CSHR  promotes a shared commitment to the Sporting Chance"
"Principles and works to raise awareness, build capacity  and create lasting value in the world of sport.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 72   Appendix 2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 73   Greenhouse Gas Emissions Verification Statement VERIFICATION OPINION DECLARATION  GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS  To: The Stakeholders of Visa, Inc.  Apex Companies, LLC (Apex) was engaged to conduct an independent verification of the greenhouse gas (GHG)  emissions"
"reported by Visa, Inc. (Visa) for the period stated below. This verification opinion declaration applies to the  related information included within the scope of work described below.   The determination of the GHG emissions is the sole responsibility of Visa. Visa is responsible for the preparation and  fair presentation of the GHG emissions statement in accordance with the criteria. Apex’s sole responsibility was to  provide independent verification on the accuracy of the GHG emissions"
"reported, and on the underlying systems and  processes used to collect, analyze and review the information. Apex is responsible for expressing an opinion on the  GHG emissions statement based on the verification. Verification activities applied in a limited level of assurance  verification are less extensive in nature, timing and extent than in a reasonable level of assurance verification.   Boundaries of the reporting company GHG emissions covered by the verification:   Operational Control   "
"Worldwide  Types of GHGs: CO2, N2O, CH4, HFCs, PFCs  GHG Emissions Statement:    Scope 1: 10,319 metric tons of CO2 equivalent    Scope 2 (Location-Based): 67,187 metric tons of CO2 equivalent    Scope 2 (Market-Based): 326 metric tons of CO2 equivalent    Scope 3:   Purchased Goods & Services: 345,314 metric tons of CO2 equivalent  Capital Goods: 01 metric tons of CO2 equivalent  Fuel- and Energy-Related Activities: 6,826 metric tons of CO2 equivalent  Waste Generated in Operations:1,461"
"metric tons of CO2 equivalent  Business Travel: 32,876 metric tons of CO2  equivalent  Employee Commuting: 23,056 metric tons of CO2 equivalent  Data and information supporting the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions statement were historical in nature.  Data and information supporting the Scope 3 GHG emissions statement were in some cases estimated rather  than historical in nature.  Period covered by GHG emissions verification:    October 1, 2022 to September 30, 2023  1  There were no capital"
"goods expenditures in Fiscal Year 2023.   WATER •  ENVIRONMENTAL •  HEALTH & SAFETY •    COMPLIANCE & ASSURANCE •    INFRASTRUCTURE  Apex Companies, LLC • (800) 733-2739 •    www.apexcos.com                                                                                                                  Page 2  Criteria against which verification conducted:     World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD)  Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Corporate"
"Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 1 and 2)     WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting  Standard (Scope 3)   Reference Standard:     ISO 14064-3: Greenhouse gases -- Part 3: Specification with guidance for the validation and verification of  greenhouse gas statements  Level of Assurance and Qualifications:    Limited    This verification used a materiality threshold of ±5% for aggregate errors in sampled data for each of the  above"
"indicators.  GHG Verification Methodology:   Evidence-gathering procedures included but were not limited to:     Interviews with relevant personnel of Visa and their consultant;     Review of documentary evidence produced by Visa;     Review of Visa data and information systems and methodology for collection, aggregation, analysis and  review of information used to determine GHG emissions; and    Audit of sample of data used by Visa to determine GHG emissions.  Verification Opinion:  Based"
"on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the GHG emissions statement shown  above:    is not materially correct and is not a fair representation of the GHG emissions data and information; and    has not been prepared in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and  Reporting Standard (Scope 1 and 2), and WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain  Accounting and Reporting Standard (Scope 3).  It is our opinion that Visa has"
"established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and analysis of  quantitative data for determination of these GHG emissions for the stated period and boundaries.  Page 3  Statement of independence, impartiality and competence  Apex is an independent professional services company that specializes in Health, Safety, Social and Environmental  management services including assurance with over 30 years history in providing these services.   No member of the verification team has a"
"business relationship with Visa, its Directors or Managers beyond that  required of this assignment.  We conducted this verification independently and to our knowledge there has been no  conflict of interest.  Apex has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards among staff in their  day-to-day business activities.  The verification team has extensive experience in conducting assurance over environmental, social, ethical and  health and safety information,"
"systems and processes, has over 20 years combined experience in this field and an  excellent understanding of Apex’s standard methodology for the verification of greenhouse gas emissions data.  Attestation:   Thomas U. Jones, Lead Verifier  Program Manager           Apex Companies, LLC   Tampa, FL May 3, 2024  Dave Reilly, Technical Reviewer  Principal Consultant Apex Companies, LLC  Santa Ana, California               This veri   fication opinion declaration, in  cluding the opinion expressed"
"herein, is provided to Visa and is solely for the benefit of Visa in accordance with  the terms of our agreement. We consent to the release of this declaration to the public or    other organizations, but without accepting or assuming any  responsibility or liability on our part to any other party who may have access to this declaration.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 74                    Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Index  Visa publicly"
"discloses climate-related information in alignment with the TCFD recommendations through our annual Form 10-K,  Visa CR&S Report, CDP Climate Change response and other corporate disclosures.  TCFD Core Element  TCFD Disclosure Requirement (Short)  TCFD Disclosure Requirement (Complete)  Location  Governance  Degree of board oversight  (a) Describe the boar   d’s oversight of climate-related risks   and opportunities.  2024 Proxy Statement, page 20  2023 Climate Change CDP C1.1a, C1.1b"
"Management's role  (b) Describe management’s r   ole in assessing and managing climate- related risks and opportunities.  2023 Climate Change CDP C1.2a  Strategy  Climate-related risks and opportunities  (a)  Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization  has identified over the short, medium and long term.  2023 Annual Report, page 28-30  2023 Climate Change CDP C2.1a, C2.2a, C2.3b, C2.4b  Impacts of risks and opportunities  (b)  Describe the impact of climate-related"
"risks and opportunities on the  organization’s businesses, strategy and financial planning.  2023 Climate Change CDP C3.1, C3.3, C3.4  Resilience of the organization's strategy  (c)  Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into  consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a  2°C or lower scenario.  2023 Climate Change CDP C3.2a, C3.2b  Risk Management  Climate risk identification process  (a)  Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and"
"assessing  climate-related risks.  2023 Climate Change CDP C2.1a, C2.2, C2.2a  Climate risk management process  (b) Describe the organization’s processes for managing  climate-related risks.  2023 Climate Change CDP C2.2  Integration with other  risk management processes  (c)  Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and managing  climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall  risk management.  2023 Climate Change CDP C2.2  Metrics & Targets  Identify risk"
"assessment metrics  (a) Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate- related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk  management process.  2023 Climate Change CDP C4.3b, C6.1, C6.3, C6.5, C8.2h  Performance Data Table, page 87  2023 Green Bond Report, page 4-5 and page 8  Identify GHG emissions  (b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse  gas (GHG) emissions and the related risks.  Sustainable Operations, page 50  Performance Data"
"Table, page 87  2023 Climate Change CDP C6.1, C6.3, C6.5  Identify targets and risk metrics  (c) Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate- related risks and opportunities and performance against targets.  2023 Annual Report, page 7-11  2024 Proxy Statement, page 20 and page 60  Protecting the Planet, page 48 and Sustainable  Operations, page 50  2023 Green Bond Report, page 2  SBTi 'Companies Taking Action' website  2023 Climate Change CDP C4.1a, C4.2c  2023 Corporate"
"Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 75       Global Reporting Initative (GRI) Index  Statement of use: Visa has reported in accordance with the GRI Standards for the period October 1, 2022 through September 30, 2023.  GRI 1 used: GRI 1: Foundation 2021.  The following may be partially disclosed and omissions are explained, where applicable.  General Disclosures  GRI Standard /  Other Source  GRI  Code  Disclosure  Location or Direct Response  Requirements  Omitted  Reason for  Omission"
"Explanation  The Organization and its Reporting Practices  GRI 2: General  Disclosures 2021  2-1  Organizational details  Corporate Profile, page 9; 2023 Annual Report, page 35  Visa (NYSE: V) is a publicly held corporation organized and existing  under the laws of the State of Delaware, headquartered in San  Francisco, CA.  2-2  Entities included in  the organization’s  sustainability reporting  2023 Annual Report: Table of Contents, page 2  Unless the context indicates otherwise, reference to"
"“Visa,” “we,” “us,”  “our” or “the Company” refers to Visa and its subsidiaries.  2-3  Reporting period, frequency  and contact point  The reporting period for Visa's annual CR&S and financial reporting is  October 1, 2022 – September 30, 2023.  Visa's 2022 ESG Report was published in April, 2023.  Please direct questions on this report or topics related to our  corporate responsibility disclosures to sustainability@visa.com.  2-4  Restatements of information  Environmental data have been"
"restated where applicable due to new  data management practices to improve consistency.  We assure report content through an internal review process,  including CEO and senior executive oversight of subject matter  reviews and validation.  2-5  External assurance  We also work with a third party to assure the following data: Scope 1,  Scope 2 and select Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions. Please see the  2023 GHG Emissions Verification Statement, page 74 for a description  of assurance standards"
"used, level of assurance obtained and any  limitations of the assurance process, as well as a description of the  relationship between Visa and the assurance provider.  Activities and Workers  GRI 2: General  Disclosures 2021  2-6  Activities, value chain and other  business relationships  2023 Annual Report: Business, pages 4-18  Visa is active in the Software IT Services sector as defined by the  Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS).  2-7  Employees  Performance Data Table, page 87;"
"2024 Proxy Statement, page 9  Visa USA annually publishes an Employer Information Report (EEO-1  Report). The most recently available certified EEO-1, for CY22, was  posted on December 19, 2023.  2-8  Workers who are   not employees  Visa does not report information related to workers who are not  employees.  Information  unavailable/  incomplete  Visa does not disclose information related to  workers who are not  employees.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 76"
"General Disclosures  GRI Standard /  Other Source  GRI  Code  Disclosure  Location or Direct Response  Requirements  Omitted  Reason for  Omission  Explanation  Governance  GRI 2: General  Disclosures 2021  2-9  Governance structure  and composition  Corporate Governance, page 65; 2024 Proxy Statement: Corporate  Governance, pages 10-18 and Committees of the Board of Directors,  pages 23-29  2-10  Nomination and selection of the  highest governance body  2024 Proxy Statement: Process for"
"Nomination of Director  Candidates, page 30  2-11  Chair of the highest  governance body  Board Structure, page 65  2-12  Role of the highest governance  body in overseeing the  management of impacts  Our Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Approach, page 10;   2024 Proxy Statement: The Board of Directors’ Role in Risk Oversight,  page 15  2-13  Delegation of responsibility  for managing impacts  Our Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Approach, page 10  2-14  Role of the highest"
"governance  body in sustainability reporting  2024 Proxy Statement: Integrated Approach, page 20  2-15  Conflicts of interest  Visa Corporate Governance Guidelines  2-16  Communication of critical  concerns  Visa Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, pages 11-13 and 2024 Proxy  Statement: Communicating with the Board of Directors, page 18  2-17  Collective knowledge of the  highest governance body  2024 Proxy Statement: Summary of Director Qualifications and  Background and Director Nominee"
"Biographies, pages 37-43  2-18  Evaluation of the  performance of the highest  governance body  2024 Proxy Statement: Board of Director and Committee  Evaluations, page 12  2-19  Remuneration policies  2024 Proxy Statement: Compensation of Non-Employee Directors,  pages 32-35 and Executive Compensation, pages 73-88  2-20  Process to determine  remuneration  2024 Proxy Statement: Compensation Discussion and Analysis,  pages 50-72  2-21  Annual total compensation ratio  2024 Proxy Statement: CEO"
"Pay Ratio, page 93  For our last completed fiscal year ended September 30, 2023, the  ratio of the annual total compensation of our CEO to the median of  the annual total compensation of our employees, excluding our CEO,  is 151:1.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 77             General Disclosures  GRI Standard /  Other Source  GRI  Code  Disclosure  Location or Direct Response  Requirements  Omitted  Reason for  Omission  Explanation  Strategy, Policies and Practices"
"GRI 2: General  Disclosures 2021  2-22  Statement on sustainable  development strategy  Letter From Ryan McInerney, page 2  2-23  Policy commitments  Visa Modern Slavery Transparency Statement, Visa Code of Business  Conduct and Ethics and Visa Supplier Code of Conduct  2-24  Embedding policy  commitments  Operating Responsibly, page 64; Human Rights, page 71  2-25  Processes to remediate  negative impacts  Visa Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, pages 11-13 and 2024 Proxy  Statement:"
"Communicating with the Board of Directors, page 18  2-26  Mechanisms for seeking advice  and raising concerns  Ethics & Compliance, page 67  Visa’s Confidential Compliance Hotline, operated by a third party,   is available in multiple languages and online or by phone, 24 hours   a day, seven days a week.  2-27  Compliance with laws  and regulations  2023 Annual Report: Note 20—Legal Matters, pages 99-106  2-28  Membership associations  Relevant Memberships, page 12  Stakeholder Engagement  GRI"
"2: General  Disclosures 2021  2-29  Approach to stakeholder  engagement  Stakeholder Engagement, page 11; Our Company, page 8  2-30  Collective bargaining  agreements  Visa does not report the percentage total of employees covered  by collective bargaining agreements.  Information  unavailable/  incomplete  In geographic locations  where required by law,  Visa employees are covered  by collective bargaining  agreements. Visa does  not report the percentage  total of employees covered  by"
"collective bargaining  agreements.  Material Topics  GRI 3: Material  Topics 2021  3-1  Process to determine  material topics  Our Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Approach, page 10  3-2  List of material topics  2024 Proxy Statement, page 21  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 78          Topic-Specific Disclosures  GRI Standard /  Other Source  GRI  Code  Disclosure  Location or Direct Response  Requirements  Omitted  Reason for  Omission  Explanation  Employee"
"Wellbeing, Employee Safety & Security  GRI 3: Material  Topics 2021  3-3  Management of material topics  Employee Safety & Security, page 47  GRI 403:  Occupational Health  and Safety 2018 403-3  Occupational health services  Employee Safety & Security, page 47  403-5 Worker training on occupational  health and safety  Employee Safety & Security, page 47  403-6 Promotion of worker health  Employee Safety & Security, page 47  403-7 Prevention and mitigation of  occupational health and safety"
"impacts directly linked by  business relationships  Employee Safety & Security, page 47  Employee Engagement  GRI 3: Material  Topics 2021 3-3 Management   of material topics  Employee Talent, Growth & Learning, page 36; Employee Engagement, page 43  GRI 404: Training  and Education 2016 404-3 Percentage of   employees receiving regular  performance and career  development reviews  Employee Talent, Growth & Learning, page 36  Inclusion & Diversity  GRI 3: Material  Topics 2021  3-3  Management"
"of material topics  Inclusion & Diversity, page 39  GRI 405: Diversity  and Equal  Opportunity 2016  405-1  Diversity of governance bodies  and employees  Inclusion & Diversity, page 39; Snapshot of Directors, page 66  Visa USA annually publishes an Employer Information Report  (EEO-1 Report).  405-2  Ratio of basic salary and  remuneration of women to men  Compensation Philosophy, page 46  At Visa, men and women earn the same pay for the same work  globally, and the same is true for"
"historically underrepresented  employees and their white peers in the U.S.  Employee Talent, Growth & Learning  GRI 3: Material  Topics 2021  3-3  Management of material topics  Employee Talent, Growth & Learning, page 36  GRI 404: Training  and Education 2016  404-1  Average hours of training per  year per employee  Performance Data Table, page 87  In 2023 on average, Visa employees participated in 16 hours  of training.  404-2 Programs for upgrading  employee skills and transition  assistance"
"programs  Employee Talent, Growth & Learning, page 36  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 79           Topic-Specific Disclosures  GRI Standard /  Other Source  GRI  Code  Disclosure  Location or Direct Response  Requirements  Omitted  Reason for  Omission  Explanation  Visa Total Rewards  GRI 3: Material  Topics 2021  3-3  Management of material topics  Visa Total Rewards, page 45  GRI 401:  Employment 2016  401-2  Benefits provided to full- time employees that are not"
"provided to temporary or part- time employees  Visa Total Rewards, page 45  Empowering Small & Micro Businesses, Empowering People  GRI 3: Material  Topics 2021  3-3  Management of material topics  Empowering Small & Micro Businesses, page 14;   Empowering People, page 18  GRI 203: Indirect  Economic Impacts  2016  203-2  Significant indirect  economic impacts  Empowering Small & Micro Businesses, page 14;   Empowering People, page 18; Sustainable Movement, page 56  Empowering Communities  GRI"
"3: Material  Topics 2021  3-3  Management of material topics  Empowering Communities, page 21  GRI 413: Local  Communities 2016  413-1  Operations with local  community engagement,  impact assessments, and  development programs  Empowering Communities, page 21  Payments Security, Transaction Integrity  GRI 3: Material  Topics 2021  3-3  Management of material topics  Payments Security, page 25; Transaction Integrity, page 34  Company specific  metric  - Number of enumeration  attacked blocked"
"In 2023, Visa blocked 121 million enumeration attacks.  Cybersecurity  GRI 3: Material  Topics 2021  3-3  Management of material topics  Cybersecurity, page 27  Company specific  metric  - Percentage of  employees who completed  Key Controls training  Cybersecurity, page 27  In 2023, 100% of eligible employees completed mandatory  Key Controls training.  Data Privacy, Responsible Data Use  GRI 3: Material  Topics 2021  3-3  Management of material topics  Data Privacy, page 30; Responsible Data"
"Use, page 29  GRI 418: Customer  Privacy 2016  418-1  Substantiated complaints  concerning breaches of  customer privacy and losses   of customer data  A material breach of Visa’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics  would be disclosed in accordance with SEC rules. Visa does not  disclose non-material breaches of our Code of Business Conduct   and Ethics.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 80                     Topic-Specific Disclosures  GRI Standard /  Other Source  GRI"
"Code  Disclosure  Location or Direct Response  Requirements  Omitted  Reason for  Omission  Explanation  Sustainable Operations  GRI 3: Material  Topics 2021  3-3  Management of material topics  Protecting the Planet, page 48  GRI 302: Energy 2016  302-1  Energy consumption   within the organization  Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 53  Visa annually responds to the CDP Climate Change   questionnaire. See Visa's CDP responses for additional energy   and emissions information.  302-2"
"Energy consumption outside of  the organization  Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 53;   Performance Data Table, page 87  302-4  Reduction of energy  consumption  Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 53  GRI 303: Water and  Effluents 2018  303-3  Water withdrawal  Water, page 55; Performance Data Table, page 87  GRI 305: Emissions  2016  305-1  Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions  Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 53;   Performance Data Table, page 87  Visa annually responds to the CDP"
"Climate Change  questionnaire. See Visa's CDP responses for additional energy  and emissions information.  305-2  Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG  emissions  Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 53;   Performance Data Table, page 87  Visa annually responds to the CDP Climate Change  questionnaire. See Visa's CDP responses for additional energy  and emissions information.  305-3  Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG  emissions  Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 53;   Performance Data Table, page"
"87  Visa annually responds to the CDP Climate Change   questionnaire. See Visa's CDP responses for additional energy   and emissions information.  305-4  GHG emissions intensity  Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 53;   Performance Data Table, page 87  Visa annually responds to the CDP Climate Change  questionnaire. See Visa's CDP responses for additional energy  and emissions information.  305-5  Reduction of GHG emissions  Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 53  Visa annually responds"
"to the CDP Climate Change  questionnaire. See Visa's CDP responses for additional energy  and emissions information.  GRI 306: Waste 2020  306-3  Waste generated  Waste, page 55; Performance Data Table, page 87  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 81               Topic-Specific Disclosures  GRI Standard /  Other Source  GRI  Code  Disclosure  Location or Direct Response  Requirements  Omitted  Reason for  Omission  Explanation  Sustainable Solutions, Sustainable Movement"
"GRI 3: Material  Topics 2021 3-3  Management of material topics  Sustainable Movement, page 56 GRI 203: Indirect  Economic Impacts  2016 203-2 Significant indirect   economic impacts  Empowering Small & Micro Businesses, page 14; Sustainable Movement, page 56 Corporate Governance  GRI 3: Material  Topics 2021 3-3  Management of material topics  Corporate Governance, page 65 GRI 405: Diversity  and Equal  Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies  and employees  Inclusion & Diversity,"
"page 39; Snapshot of 2024 Director Nominees,  page 66  Ethics & Compliance  GRI 3: Material  Topics 2021 3-3  Management of material topics  Ethics & Compliance, page 67 GRI 205: Anti- Corruption 2016 205-1 205-2 Operations assessed for risks  related to corruption  Communication and training  about anti-corruption policies  and procedures Ethics & Compliance, page 67 Ethics & Compliance, page 67 GRI 206: Anti- Competitive  Behavior 2016 206-1  Legal actions for anti- competitive behavior, anti-"
"trust  and monopoly practices  2023 Annual Report: Legal and Regulatory Matters, pages 48-49  , and Note 20—Legal Matters, pages 99-106 Engaging with Governments, Tax Compliance & Governance  GRI 3: Material  Topics 2021 3-3  Management of material topics    Engaging with Governments, page 68; Tax Compliance & Governance, page 69 GRI 207: Tax 2019  207-1  Approach to tax Tax Compliance & Governance, page 69; 2023 Annual Report, pages 39-41, page 45 and page 49 Responsible Sourcing  GRI 3:"
"Material  Topics 2021 3-3  Management of material topics  Responsible Sourcing, page 70 GRI 308: Supplier  Environmental  Assessment 2016  308-1  New suppliers that   were screened using  environmental criteria  Visa does not report the number of new suppliers screened using  environmental criteria.  All Visa suppliers receive  the Supplier Code as  part of the onboarding  process. Visa does not  report the number of new  suppliers screened using  environmental criteria.  Other Disclosures  GRI"
"201: Economic  Performance 2016  201-1  Direct economic value  generated and distributed  Corporate Profile, page 9; 2023 Annual Report: Year-End Financial Highlights, page 2 and Management's Discussion of Financial Condition, page 37 2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 82      Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Content Index  Visa discloses elements of metrics from the SASB Software and IT Services industry standard, version 2023-12.  Code  Metric  Location or"
"Direction Response  Environmental Footprint of Hardware Infrastructure  TC-SI-130a.1  (1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid electricity and   (3) percentage renewable  Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 53; Performance Data Table, page 87  Visa annually responds to the CDP Climate Change questionnaire.   See Visa's CDP responses for additional energy and emissions information.  TC-SI-130a.2  (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed; percentage   of each in regions with"
"High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress  Water, page 55; Performance Data Table, page 87  Water withdrawal data is collected directly from facilities that Visa operates  (owned or leased) as part of the annual environmental inventory process.  Visa then determines areas of high or extremely high water stress using WRI’s  Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas. 42% of Visa's water use occurs in an area of high or  extremely high baseline water stress. This metric does not include the reclaimed  water"
"that is used at Visa’s data center in the Eastern U.S.  TC-SI-130a.3  Discussion of the integration of environmental considerations into  strategic planning for data centre needs  Greening Our Offices & Data Centers, page 50  Data Privacy & Freedom of Expression  TC-SI-220a.1  Description of policies and practices relating to targeted advertising   and user privacy  Responsible Data Use, page 29 TC-SI-220a.2  Number of users whose information is used for secondary purposes  TC-SI-220a.3  Total"
"amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings  associated with user privacy  Visa discloses all material legal proceedings in our SEC filings.  TC-SI-220a.4  (1) Number of law enforcement requests for user information,   (2) number of users whose information was requested and   (3) percentage resulting in disclosure  TC-SI-220a.5  List of countries where core products or services are subject   to government-required monitoring, blocking, content filtering   or censoring  Data"
"Security  TC-SI-230a.1  (1) Number of data breaches, (2) percentage that are personal data  breaches and (3) number of users affected  TC-SI-230a.2  Description of approach to identifying and addressing data security risks, including use of third-party cybersecurity standards    Cybersecurity, page 27  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 83   Code  Metric  Location or Direction Response  Recruiting & Managing a Global, Diverse & Skilled Workforce  TC-SI-330a.1  Percentage of"
"employees that require a work visa  TC-SI-330a.2  Employee engagement as a percentage  Employee Engagement, page 43  TC-SI-330a.3  Percentage of (1) gender and (2) diversity group representation for   (a) executive management, (b) non-executive management, (c)  technical employees and (d) all other employees  Performance Data Table, page 87; 2024 Proxy Statement, page 9  Visa USA annually publishes an Employer Information Report (EEO-1 Report). The most recently available certified EEO-1, for"
"CY22, was posted on December  19, 2023.  Intellectual Property Protection & Competitive Behaviour  TC-SI-520a.1  Total amount of monetary losses as a result of legal proceedings  associated with anti-competitive behaviour regulations  2023 Annual Report: Legal and Regulatory Matters, pages 48-49, and Note 20— Legal Matters, pages 99-106  Managing Systemic Risks from Technology Disruptions  TC-SI-550a.1  Number of (1) performance issues and (2) service disruptions;   (3) total customer downtime"
"TC-SI-550a.2  Description of business continuity risks related to disruptions   of operations  2023 Annual Report: Risk Factors, pages 18-34  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 84         World Economic Forum (WEF) Content Index  Visa discloses elements of Core metrics from the WEF Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics.  Theme  Core Metric  Location or Direct Response  Principles of Governance  Governing Purpose  Setting purpose  Letter From Ryan McInerney, page 2  Quality of"
"governing body  Governance body composition  Corporate Governance, page 65; 2024 Proxy Statement: Snapshot of 2024  Director Nominees, page 3, Corporate Governance, pages 10-18, Committees of  the Board of Directors, pages 23-29 and Director Nominee Biographies, pages  38-43; Corporate Governance Guidelines pages 1 and 8-9  As of 2023, there are no employee stakeholder representatives on Visa’s  Board of Directors. However, the full Board has oversight of human capital  management and performs"
"regular reviews. See 2024 Proxy Statement, pages  6-7, for additional information on Board committee responsibilities for specific  areas of human capital management.  Stakeholder engagement  Material issues impacting stakeholders  Our Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Approach, page 10; 2024 Proxy  Statement , page 21  Ethical behaviour  Anti-corruption  Ethics & Compliance, page 67  Protected ethics advice and reporting mechanisms  Ethics & Compliance, page 67  Visa’s Confidential"
"Compliance Hotline, operated by a third party, is available in  multiple languages and online or by phone, 24 hours a day, seven days a week.  Risk and opportunity oversight  Integrating risk and opportunity into business process  2023 Annual Report: Risk Factors, pages 18-34  Planet  Climate change  Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions  Energy & Greenhouse Gas Emissions, page 53; Performance Data Table, page 87  Visa annually responds to the CDP Climate Change questionnaire. See Visa’s  CDP responses"
"for additional energy and emissions information.  TCFD implementation  TCFD Index, page 75  Freshwater availability  Water consumption and withdrawal in water-stressed areas  Water, page 55; Performance Data Table, page 87  Water withdrawal data is collected directly from facilities that Visa operates  (owned or leased) as part of the annual environmental inventory process.  Visa then determines areas of high or extremely high water stress using WRI’s  Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas. 42% of Visa's"
"water use occurs in an area of high or  extremely high baseline water stress. This metric does not include the reclaimed  water that is used at Visa’s data center in the Eastern U.S.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 85           Theme  Core Metric  Location or Direct Response  People  Dignity and equality  Diversity and inclusion (%)  Performance Data Table, page 87; 2024 Proxy Statement, page 9  Visa USA annually publishes an Employer Information Report (EEO-1 Report)."
"The most recently available certified EEO-1, for CY22, was posted on December  19, 2023.  Pay equality (%)  Compensation Philosophy, page 46; Performance Data Table, page 87  Wage level (%)  2024 Proxy Statement: CEO Pay Ratio, page 93  For our last completed fiscal year ended September 30, 2023, the ratio of  the annual total compensation of our CEO to the median of the annual total  compensation of our employees, excluding our CEO, is 151:1.  Health and well-being  Health and safety (%)  This"
"metric is not material to the banking industry.  Skills for the future  Training provided (#, $)  Performance Data Table, page 87  On average, Visa employees participated in 16 hours of training in 2023.  Prosperity  Employment and wealth generation  Absolute number and rate of employment  Performance Data Table, page 87  Economic contribution  Corporate Profile, page 9; 2023 Annual Report: Year-End Financial Highlights,  page 2 and Management’s Discussion of Financial Condition, pages 37-49"
"Financial investment contribution  2023 Annual Report: Fiscal Year 2023 Key Statistics, page 5 and Liquidity and  Capital Resources, page 45  Innovation of better products  and services  Total R&D expenses ($)  Visa does not report total costs related to research and development.  Community and social vitality  Total tax paid  Visa reports on its effective global tax rate annually: Tax Compliance &  Governance, page 69; 2023 Annual Report, pages 38-40, page 45, pages 49-50.  See Visa’s Operating"
"Responsibility webpage for additional information on tax  governance.  We do not currently disclose total global tax as prescribed by WEF. As  governments finalize rules regarding corporate tax disclosure globally,   we will comply with those requirements.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 86                 Performance Data Table   Workforce Demographics1  Description  Unit  FY 2020  FY 2021  FY 2022  FY2023  Total number of employees (approx.)  Number  20,500  21,500"
"26,500  28,800  Workforce Diversity  Gender in Global workforce  Female  %  41  42  42  42  Male  %  59  58  58  58  Gender in U.S. Workforce  Female  %  41  42  44  44  Male  %  59  58  56  56  Ethnicities in U.S. Workforce2  Asian  %  42  41  41  42  Black or African American  %  6  7  8  8  Hispanic or Latino  %  11  12  12  13  White  %  38  37  36  34  Others3  %  3  3  3  3  Gender in Global Leadership4  Female  %  34  35  36  37  Male  %  66  65  64  63  Gender in U.S. Leadership4  Female"
"%  34  35  36  37  Male  %  66  65  64  63  Ethnicities in U.S. Leadership2,4  Asian  %  19  20  18  18  Black or African American  %  4  6  7  6  Hispanic or Latino  %  12  12  13  13  White  %  63  59  60  60  Others3  %  2  2  2  3  Median Pay5  Women compared to Men  %  - - - 94  Employees of Color compared to White employees  %  - - - 93  1. Throughout Workforce Demographics, unless otherwise noted, employee totals include full- and part-time employees, exclude interns and those on a"
"severance notice period or long-term disability leave  and are as of September 30 of the relevant fiscal year. Ratios may not add up to 100% due to rounding.  2. Ethnicity data does not include employees who choose not to disclose or leave the field blank.  3. Others defined as American Indian/Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander and two or more races.  4. Leadership defined as Vice President and above.  5. Unadjusted median pay is a measure of representation by level, and"
"includes 100% of Visa employees, including those in non-fully integrated subsidiaries.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 87   Workforce Demographics1  Description  Unit  FY 2020  FY 2021  FY 2022  FY2023  Retention  Voluntary Attrition in Global Workforce6  Female  %  - - 38  43  Male  %  - - 62  57  Voluntary Attrition in U.S. Workforce2,7  Asian  %  - - 47  38  Black or African American  %  - - 8  11  Hispanic or Latino  %  - - 11  10  White  %  - - 31  36  Others3  %  -"
"- 3  4  Recruiting (Interview Candidates)8  Global Recruiting9  Female  %  - - 38  44  Male  %  - - 62  56  U.S. Recruiting10  Asian  %  - - 55  44  Black or African American  %  - - 10  12  Hispanic or Latino  %  - - 10  13  White  %  - - 21  27  Others3  %  - - 3  4  External Hiring  Global External Hiring11  Female  %  - - 42  44  Male  %  - - 58  56  U.S. External Hiring12  Asian  %  - - 44  45  Black or African American  %  - - 12  9  Hispanic or Latino  %  - - 13  13  White  %  - - 28  29"
"Others3  %  - - 3  4  6. Ratio of voluntary leavers by gender.  7. Ratio of U.S.-based voluntary leavers by ethnicity, self-identified population.  8. A significant portion of interview candidates do not disclose their gender or, in the U.S., ethnicity. This data includes only those who have self-disclosed.  9. Ratio of external interview candidates by gender, self-identified population.  10. Ratio of U.S.-based external interview candidates by ethnicity, self-identified population.  11. Ratio"
"of external hires by gender, excluding employees who joined Visa as part of an acquisition, self-identified population.  12. Ratio of U.S.-based external hires by ethnicity, excluding employees who joined Visa as part of an acquisition, self-identified population.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 88       Workforce Demographics1  Description  Unit  FY 2020  FY 2021  FY 2022  FY2023  Internal Mobility13  Global Internal Mobility14  - - Female  %  - - 44  45  Male  %  - -"
"56  55  U.S. Internal Mobility15  Asian  %  - - 43  44  Black or African American  %  - - 6  7  Hispanic or Latino  %  - - 13  14  White  %  - - 34  32  Others3  %  - - 4  3  Other Social Metrics  Employee Training  Average hours of training per employee  Hours/employee  13  12  17  16  Employees engaged in optional learning activities  %  96  86  89  96  Environmental Metrics  Energy consumption  Total energy consumption  GJ  704,000  646,000  747,000  841,000  Total energy consumption from"
"grid electricity  GJ  623,000  591,000  643,000  687,000  Percent total energy consumed from grid electricity  %  88  91  86  82  Total energy consumed from renewable sources  GJ  546,000  591,000  643,000  687,000  Energy intensity (Energy per FTE)  GJ/FTE  34  30  28  29  Global average power usage effectiveness (PUE)  1.56  1.52  1.48  1.45  Percentage of owned or leased square  footage that is green building certified16  %  70  75  78  80  13. Includes lateral movement (position changes with"
"no job level changes) and promotions ( job level elevations).  14. Ratio of internal mobility by gender, self-identified population.  15. Ratio of U.S.-based internal mobility by ethnicity, self-identified population.  16. Visa’s percentage of owned or leased square footage that is green building certified, includes locations that are either certified or pending certification such as LEED, BREEAM, GreenMark and various regional green building certification frameworks.  2023 Corporate"
"Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 89        Environmental Metrics  Description  Unit  FY 2020  FY 2021  FY 2022  FY2023  Greenhouse Gas Emissions  Total scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions17,18  MTCO2e  13,900  4,000  6,400  10,600  Total scope 1 GHG emissions  MTCO2e  5,100  4,000  6,400  10,300  Total scope 2 GHG emissions—location-based emissions  MTCO2e  66,400  59,200  60,900  67,200  Total scope 2 GHG emissions—market-based emissions18  MTCO2e  8,800  0  0  300  Percentage difference in"
"scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions in comparison  to FY20 baseline17,18  %  - -71  -54  -24  Emissions intensity (scope 1 and 2 per FTE)17,18  MTCO2e /FTE  0.7  0.2  0.2  0.4  Total scope 3 GHG emissions  MTCO2e  409,200  321,000  403,900  409,500  Scope 3 purchased goods and services  MTCO2e  369,900  302,200  369,200  345,300  Scope 3 business travel  MTCO2e  18,600  1,300  12,800  32,900  Scope 3 employee commuting  MTCO2e  16,600  12,800  14,900  23,100  Other categories  MTCO2e  4,100  4,700"
"7,000  8,300  Carbon offsets  MTCO2e  -46,100  -19,154  -34,456  -66,300  Water Withdrawal  Total water withdrawal  ML  311  271  301  365  Potable water withdrawal  ML  217  147  177  234  Reclaimed water withdrawal  ML  94  124  124  131  Total water withdrawal in regions with High or Extremely High Baseline  Water Stress19  ML  71  65  72  98  Total water withdrawal in regions with High or Extremely High Baseline  Water Stress19  %  33  44  41  42  Waste Management  Waste generated20  MT"
"3,550  1,140  2,500  3,900  Landfill diversion rate21  %  51  43  48  47  Waste recycled/reused  MT  1,040  230  490  680  Waste composted22  MT  760  260  720  1,200  Waste incinerated  MT  130  50  80  180  Waste sent to landfill  MT  1,620  600  1,220  1,900  17. All combined scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions metrics are representative of scope 1 and 2 market-based emissions.  18.  Visa’s growth in scope 2 emissions can be attributed to an improved accounting for RECS, which led to an increase in"
"market-based scope 2 emissions. Visa has adjusted the scope 2 accounting procedure so that RECs are only applied to energy purchases in the same market as the  RECs are generated. There are locations around the world where RECs are not available or where Visa will not purchase at this time. The Visa team has identified the locations of these energy purchases that cannot be offset with local RECs and applied the emission factor for the  relevant domestic energy grid. In-market RECs for these"
"locations will be procured if and when they become available. In FY23, Visa purchased RECs, in accordance with RE100, equal to 99% of our total electricity footprint in order to mitigate against our total scope 2 emissions.  19. Disclosed values do not include Visa’s reclaimed water usage. High or Extremely High Baseline Water Stress is determined using World Resources Institute Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas.  20. Visa has active e-waste recycling programs at its large facilities and data centers."
"Hazardous waste has not been determined to be a material issue for Visa.  21. Consistent with the ZWIA definition, the landfill diversion rate does not include waste that is incinerated.  22. Composted waste includes waste that was reported as being sent to compost as well as anaerobic digestion.  2023 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 90   Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability  ©2024 Visa. All rights reserved."
