"Valero.com August 2024 ESG Report The world requires reliable and affordable transportation fuels.  We are committed to advancing the future of energy through  innovation, ingenuity and unmatched execution.  2 ESG Report Please visit www.valero.com to learn more about our company. The  terms “Valero,” “we,” “our” and “us,” when used herein, may refer  to Valero Energy Corporation (NYSE: VLO), to one or more of our  consolidated subsidiaries and/or consolidated joint ventures, or to all  of them"
"taken as a whole. The term DGD, when used in this report,  may refer to Diamond Green Diesel Holdings LLC, its wholly owned  consolidated subsidiary, or both of them taken as a whole.  ABOUT THIS DOCUMENT  Policies and Procedures  This document includes statements regarding various policies, values, standards, approaches,  methodologies, procedures, processes, systems, programs, initiatives, assessments, technologies, practices,  and similar measures related to our operations, ESG-related data,"
"actions and compliance systems  (collectively, “Policies and Procedures”). References to Policies and Procedures in this document do not  represent guarantees or promises about their efficacy or continued implementation or use, or any assurance  that any such Policies and Procedures will apply in every case. Such Policies and Procedures are subject  to risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond the control of Valero and are difficult  to predict, and there may be exigent"
"circumstances, factors, or considerations that may cause different  implementation thereof or exceptions in specific instances. Please see Forward-Looking Statements below  and the risk factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023.  Forward-Looking Statements  This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities  Act of 1933 (the Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange"
"Act),  including, but not limited to, statements about our Policies and Procedures. You can identify forward-looking  statements by words such as “should,” “strive,” “pursue,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “forecast,” “track,” “would,”  “continue,” “poised,” “focused,” “opportunity,” “scheduled,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “seek,” “could,”  “may,” “potential,” “committed,” “advancing,” “developing,” “evaluating,” “targeting,” goal, aspiration,  plan, or other similar expressions that convey the"
"uncertainty of future events or outcomes. Forward- looking statements in this document include those relating to our 2025 and 2035 GHG emissions reduction/ displacement targets, our 2038 update, our 2050 ambition, our support of the development of an onboard  CO2 capture system, statements relating to Valero’s low-carbon fuels strategy expected timing of completion,  cost and performance of projects, future market and industry conditions, future operating and financial  performance, expected"
"timing or issuance of future reports and other disclosures, future production and  manufacturing ability and size, and management of future risks, among other matters. It is important to  note that actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements  based on numerous risk factors, including those outside of Valero’s control, such as legislative or political  changes or developments, market dynamics, cyberattacks, weather events, and other matters"
"affecting  Valero’s operations or the demand for Valero’s products. These factors also include, but are not limited to, the  uncertainties that remain with respect to current or contemplated legal, political or regulatory developments  that are adverse to or restrict refining and marketing operations, or that impose profits, windfall or margin  taxes or caps or penalties, global geopolitical and other conflicts and tensions, the impact of inflation on  margins and costs, economic activity"
"levels, and the adverse effects the foregoing may have on Valero’s  business plan, strategy, operations and financial performance. These statements are often based upon  various assumptions, many of which are based, in turn, upon further assumptions, including examination  of historical operating trends and market conditions made by the management of Valero. Although Valero  believes that the assumptions were reasonable when made, because assumptions are inherently subject to  significant"
"uncertainties and contingencies, which are difficult or impossible to predict and are beyond its  control, Valero cannot give assurance that it will achieve or accomplish its expectations, beliefs or intentions,  or that any forward-looking statements will ultimately prove to be accurate. When considering these forward- looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements contained in  Valero’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC),"
"including Valero’s annual report on Form  10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and other reports available on Valero’s website at www.valero.com.  These risks could cause the actual results, actions and Policies and Procedures of Valero to differ materially  from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Such statements speak only as of the date of this  report and we do not intend to update these statements unless we are required by the securities laws to do  so. Results or metrics in"
"this document as of any date, or for any period, ending on or prior to the date of this  document are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected as of any date, or for any period,  ending after the date of this document. Neither the future distribution of this document or the information  included or referenced herein, nor the continued availability thereof in archive form on our website, should be  deemed to constitute an update or reaffirmation of these figures or"
"statements as of any future date.  This report and the disclosures herein are not “soliciting material,” are not deemed filed with the SEC, and  are not to be incorporated by reference into any of Valero’s filings under the Securities Act or the Exchange  Act, whether made before or after the date of this document and irrespective of any general incorporation  language therein. Furthermore, references to our website URLs are intended to be inactive textual references  only.  This document"
"represents a good faith effort by Valero to address its efforts, initiatives, and performance on  an array of diverse and broadly defined ESG-related topics of interest to certain stakeholders. The inclusion  of or reference to any information in this document is not an indication that this information or statements  related thereto are necessarily material to investors or require disclosure in our filings with the SEC.      3       A Message from Our CEO          4       About Valero    6"
"Highlights      8       Valero's Strategy       10      Low-Carbon Innovation   16      Efficient Climate Solutions     18      GHG Emissions   22      Environment     32      Safety          42      Community       52      People         64       Governance      76      SASB Report     78      Notes  80       Non-GAAP Disclosures ON THE COVER: Valero  partners with organizations  to enhance habitats surrounding  its facilities. The cover shows the  Meraux Terracing Project where the  focus is"
"to conserve, restore and  manage wetlands near  the Valero Meraux Refinery  in Louisiana. The information provided in this report is intended for interested readers in the United States. Because science is  evolving, references and analyses relied upon are merely provided as an aid to readers.  A Message from Our CEO 2023 was another strong year for Valero, with our company achieving its  best year ever for both refining environmental scorecard incidents and  refining mechanical availability."
"These accomplishments are a testament  to our long-standing commitment to safe, reliable and environmentally  responsible operations. This will always be our top priority.  Last year, the company also set many records, including annual sales  volumes for our wholesale system and for our renewable diesel segment,  as well as throughput volumes for our ethanol business. Valero delivered  strong financial performance in 2023, earning $24.92 per share, the  second highest in our company history.  As"
"I think about our community, I am proud of Valero’s culture and legacy  of giving back, as demonstrated through the successful fundraising  activities we conducted during the year such as the Valero Texas Open  and Benefit for Children, as well as the incredible generosity of our  employees through volunteerism and employee giving.  Team Valero is committed to executing strategic projects that enhance the earnings capability of our  business and expand our long-term competitive advantage. Our"
"premier refining portfolio and low-carbon  fuels businesses have made us the best-in-class producer of liquid transportation fuels and products that  are essential to modern life. On the refining side, we are the lowest-cost producer while achieving reliable top-quartile operations.  For many years, we have prioritized capital expenditures to sustain our operations to ensure safety and  reliability. We are pursuing projects focused on increasing operational efficiencies and feedstock"
"flexibility,  optimizing the value of our product mix and maximizing the utilization of existing conversion capacity. On a consolidated basis, we have invested more than $5.4 billion in a profitable low-carbon portfolio. Our  renewable diesel segment continues to target high-return projects in growing low-carbon markets and  we are also diversifying as demonstrated by the development of Sustainable Aviation Fuel or SAF. The  SAF project at our renewable diesel plant in Port Arthur, Texas, is"
"progressing ahead of schedule and is  expected to be operational in the fourth quarter of 2024. With the completion of this project, the renewable  diesel segment is expected to be one of the largest manufacturers of SAF in the world.  We also continue to evaluate and develop economic projects to further reduce the carbon intensity  of our ethanol business. With that in mind, we expect to participate as a shipper on a large-scale  proposed carbon capture pipeline connecting to eight of our"
"ethanol plants. Once implemented, we  estimate a substantial reduction of carbon as well as an uplift in the economics of this segment.  Looking ahead, we remain focused on the things that have been a hallmark of our strategy –  maintaining operating excellence, executing our projects well, discipline around capital investments  and our commitment to stockholder returns. As global energy supply increases to meet the demand created by a growing world population, we  remain committed to advancing"
"transportation fuels solutions through innovation, ingenuity and  unmatched execution.  My deepest gratitude to our 9,900-plus employees for their commitment, our Board for its  unwavering support, our stockholders for their investment, and our business partners and other  stakeholders for their trust. R. Lane Riggs Chief Executive Officer & President Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  3  4 About Valero Our Business REFINING •    15 petroleum refineries in the  U.S., Canada and the"
"U.K.,  with 3.2 million barrels per  day (bpd) of high-complexity  throughput capacity.  •         Lowest-cost producer of  gasoline, diesel, jet fuel and  other specialty products,  including petrochemicals and  asphalt.  •   Executing a viable path to  reduce and displace the  equivalent to 100% of the  tonnage from our refinery GHG  emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) by  2035 through Board-approved  projects.1 World’s largest independent  refiner  •   Renewable diesel plants  adjacent to the Valero"
"St. Charles and Port Arthur  refineries.  •     Developing large-scale SAF  project, expected by Q4 2024.  •    Current annual production  capacity of 1.2 billion gallons of  renewable diesel and 50 million  gallons of renewable naphtha.  •        Up to 80% reduction in life cycle  GHG emissions, compared with  traditional diesel.2  •        100% compatible with existing  engines and infrastructure.  RENEWABLE DIESEL World’s 2nd largest renewable  diesel producer  Guiding Principles Safety"
"Safety is our  foundation for  success.  Environment We are committed  stewards of the  environment.  Community We will be a good  neighbor by sharing  our success with the  communities where  we live and work  through volunteerism,  charitable giving and  the economic support  of being a good  employer.  Employees We consider our  employees a  competitive advantage  and our greatest  asset. We foster a  supportive culture  and provide a safe,  healthy and rewarding  work environment  with"
"opportunities for  growth. Governance We view our  stakeholders as partners  to whom we seek to  deliver operational  excellence, disciplined  management of capital  and long-term value on  a foundation of strong  governance and ethical  standards.  We are a Fortune 500 company and a multinational manufacturer and marketer of petroleum-based and low- carbon liquid transportation fuels and petrochemical products, and we sell our products primarily in the United  States (U.S.), Canada, the United"
"Kingdom (U.K.), Ireland and Latin America. We manage our operations through our  Refining, Renewable Diesel and Ethanol segments. •   12 ethanol plants with annual  production capacity of 1.6  billion gallons of ethanol and  4.2 million tons of dry distillers  grains.  •       High-octane, low-carbon fuel  offering at least 30% reduction  in life cycle GHG emissions,  compared with petroleum  gasoline.2  •     Developing carbon capture  and storage projects to further  reduce carbon intensity of"
"ethanol.  ETHANOL World’s 2nd largest corn ethanol producer 4  Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  5 About Valero MEXICO CITY CANADA UNITED STATES BENICIA WILMINGTON MCKEE ARDMORE THREE  RIVERS BILL GREEHEY (CORPUS CHRISTI  EAST AND WEST) TEXAS CITY HOUSTON PORT ARTHUR MERAUX ST. CHARLES MEMPHIS MOUNT  VERNON LINDEN BLOOMINGBURG SAN ANTONIO ALBION AURORA HARTLEY WELCOME ALBERT CITY FORT DODGE CHARLES CITY JEAN GAULIN (QUEBEC) MONTREAL LAKOTA BLUFFTON MEXICO WHOLESALE MARKETING"
"PRESENCE VALERO ETHANOL PLANTS VALERO TERMINALS VALERO REFINERIES BRANDED WHOLESALE PRESENCE VALERO OFFICES DIAMOND GREEN DIESEL (RENEWABLE DIESEL PLANTS) LONDON PEMBROKE UNITED KINGDOM IRELAND PERU LIMA PIPELINES PAYMENT SERVICE CENTER SUNRAY WIND COGENERATION UNITS EXPANDERS (ELECTRICITY PRODUCED FROM EXHAUST GASES) U.S. RENEWABLE DIESEL WHOLESALE PRESENCE The world requires  reliable and affordable  energy, and we see  this as an opportunity.  We are advancing the  future of energy through"
"innovation, ingenuity  and unmatched  execution. Valero's Vision  6 Highlights GHG Emissions  •        Exceeded 2025 short-term GHG emissions target.  •       Remained on track to achieve 2035 medium-term GHG emissions target.  •  Disclosed 2038 company-wide GHG emissions update. •     Disclosed 2050 long-term ambition.  •   Received independent third-party limited assurance on/of: o Company-wide 2023 Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions, including refining, renewable diesel and  ethanol.  o Company-"
"wide 2023 life cycle GHG emissions displacements from our renewable diesel and  ethanol production, as well as the blending of and credits from low-carbon fuels.  o Company-wide 2023 GHG emissions from the use of our products on an intensity basis (Use of  Product GHG Emissions Intensity). o The validation of our 2035 GHG emissions reduction/displacement target. Low-Carbon Investments •         Invested $5.4 billion as of December 31, 2023, in low-carbon fuels businesses.  •       Low-carbon"
"projects held to the same after-tax internal rate of return (IRR) hurdle, just like other  refinery growth projects.  •      Largest low-carbon liquid fuels producer with existing production capacity of renewable diesel,  renewable arctic diesel, renewable naphtha, renewable propane, ethanol and cellulosic ethanol. •       Expected to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2024, our SAF project at our Texas renewable fuel  plant to provide optionality to upgrade approximately 50% of the plant's"
"current 470 million-gallon  renewable diesel annual production capacity to neat SAF.  •   Exporting lower carbon transportation fuels produced with low-carbon hydrogen.  •       Supporting the development of a prototype to reduce CO2 from internal combustion engines with an  onboard tailpipe carbon capture system.  Safety and Environmental Performance •       Achieved our best-ever refinery environment performance in 2023 as measured by environmental  scorecard metrics.  •     Accomplished our"
"best-ever refining segment mechanical availability of 97.4% in 2023, which  minimizes environmental impacts and avoids unplanned downtime.  Environment  Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  7 Highlights Executive Compensation Linked to HSE,  Sustainability and Climate-Related  Initiatives •         Annual bonus program, including metrics  for health, safety and environment (HSE)  performance, as well as sustainability efforts  and improvements.  •         Performance shares component"
"of long- term incentive program tying executive  compensation to Valero’s low-carbon fuels  strategy.  Board Diversity •   100% of our committee chairs either women or  racially/ethnically diverse.  •   Of our directors, 36.4% women and 36.4%  racially/ethnically diverse.  Cybersecurity •  Enterprise approach to information security risk  management and governance:  o Periodic third-party expert cybersecurity  and risk assessment testing, including  annual payment card industry data security"
"standard testing and firewall reviews,  penetration testing as needed and periodic  review of our information security framework.  o Annual incident response exercise/security  incident simulation with company-wide  cross-functional team facilitated by a third- party expert.  •   Mandatory cybersecurity training at least  annually for all employees and annual  cybersecurity awareness month campaign.  Other Governance •   Mandatory training on compliance and ethics  matters for all employees and"
"contractors. •       Annual company-wide corporate compliance  and ethics week awareness campaign.  •        Reporting political disclosures, including  contributions, lobbying and trade associations. •   Generated more than $77.6 million for charities  in 2023 to support education and workforce  development, healthcare, housing and basic  needs, and food security.  •   Recorded more than 129,400 employee volunteer  hours in 2023.  •        Continued to foster a strong team culture that"
"supports our employees and is built upon our  value of employee talents, experience, education  and perspectives.  •    Continued to attract and retain top talent  through our competitive and comprehensive  compensation and Total Wellness benefits and  programs.  •       Supported personal and professional  development through training and growth  opportunities.  •         Conducted a voluntary independent third- party audit in 2023, which concluded that  Valero’s commitment to environmental"
"justice, environmental protection, community  engagement and involvement, and community  investment goes beyond compliance and aligns  with environmental justice pillars as described by  the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). •  SASB Report (page 76 on this Report) •  TCFD Report (IEA Net Zero by 2050), including a  value chain analysis for GHG emissions •       Environmental Justice Audit Report  •   Climate-Lobbying Report •       EEO-1 Report •  Limited Assurance Statements: Scope 1,"
"Scope  2 and Use of Product GHG Emissions Intensity,  low-carbon fuel displacements and validation of  2035 GHG emissions target     Visit our website at www.valero.com > Investors >  ESG  Social Governance Other ESG Disclosures  8 Valero’s Strategy  Our strategic actions have enabled us to be a low-cost, efficient, reliable and leading producer of liquid  transportation fuels for the world. Liquid transportation fuels use existing infrastructure, are affordable and scalable,  and we believe"
"they will continue to be essential products well into the future as global energy supply increases to  meet the demand created by a growing world population and economic output.  Throughout Valero’s history, we have proactively managed our business portfolio through acquisitions and divestitures  and have made strategic investments to build a portfolio of assets that we expect to thrive under most reasonable  energy demand forecasts.  Long-term competitive advantage3 n Peer Range Free Cash Flow"
"Average Free Cash Flow 2012-2023 $0 ($ in millions) $3,529 Valero is the world’s premier independent refiner with a demonstrated  commitment to capital discipline, innovation and unmatched execution  Refining Many of our refineries are located in regions with  advantaged operating expenses, raw material  costs and access to skilled labor. Many of our  investments have resulted in a high-complexity  coastal refining system that offers extensive  connectivity to inland and imported crudes, as"
"well as operational flexibility to process a wide  range of feedstocks. An extensive wholesale  network receives more than 1.5 million barrels per  day (more than 50% of our light products), and our  global operations support optimization of product  exports.  Operational and supply flexibility coupled with low-cost operations drive profitability3 $3.00 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Refining Segment Cash Operating Expenses  Per Barrel of Throughput (excludes turnaround and"
"D&A expenses) n Peer Range $9.00 $7.50 $4.00 10-Year Average 8 Refining Segment Adjusted EBITDA  Per Barrel of Throughput (excludes turnaround and D&A expenses) $18.00 -$4.00 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Peer group includes PSX, MPC, DINO and PBF. See non-GAAP disclosures beginning on page 80. n Peer Range  Strategy Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  9 Independent  assessments of our  refining strategy,  under multiple carbon- constrained scenarios,  found"
"Valero's overall  refining portfolio to be  resilient Responding to the requests of certain  stakeholders regarding independent  assessments of the resilience of  our strategy under hypothetical oil  and biofuel demand scenarios, we  have issued three reports following  the recommendations of the Task  Force on Climate-Related Financial  Disclosures (TCFD) and using multiple  demand scenarios. Our first TCFD  report, the Review of Climate- related Risks and Opportunities, was  published in"
"September 2018. At that  time, we engaged HSB Solomon  Associates (Solomon), a leading  refining benchmarking data provider  and advisory firm, to conduct an  independent analysis under multiple  demand scenarios, including the  potential transition to a lower-carbon  economy consistent with one of the  International Energy Agency's (IEA)  2°C scenarios. In the 2021 TCFD Report  and Scenario Analysis, Solomon  examined our refining business  and reviewed the resilience of our  strategy under the"
"IEA’s Sustainable  Development Scenario (SDS), referred  to as a well-below 2°C scenario. And  in the 2022 TCFD Report, Solomon  conducted an independent scenario  analysis based on the assumptions  of the IEA Net Zero by 2050 Scenario,  as applied by Solomon. The  assessments in such reports found  Valero’s overall refining portfolio to  be resilient.4  The world is calling for low-carbon  alternatives...  Low-carbon fuels and carbon capture and storage (CCS), which  are key components of"
"Valero’s low-carbon fuels strategy and  its GHG emissions targets, are viewed by both the United Nations  (U.N.) Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)5 and  IEA6 as critical to 1.5°C-aligned, net zero by 2050 ambitions.  Furthermore, the U.N. Climate Change Conference (COP28)  resulted in a multilateral agreement, published on December  13, 2023, that explicitly calls for contributions to rapid and  sustained reductions in GHG emissions with efforts such as: •   “Utilizing zero- and"
"low-carbon fuels”  •       “[A]ccelerating zero- and low-emission technologies,  including, inter alia, renewables, nuclear, abatement  and removal technologies such as carbon capture and  utilization and storage, particularly in hard-to-abate  sectors and low-carbon hydrogen production”7  Attended by some 85,000 participants from nearly 200  countries, the COP28 agreement also explicitly “[r]ecognizes  that transitional fuels can play a role in facilitating the energy  transition while ensuring"
"energy security.”8  Additionally, the U.S. Department of Energy recently published a  report on pathways to decarbonize the refining industry, which  describes phased approaches for refiners to achieve net zero by  leveraging technologies such as clean hydrogen, CCS and bio- based feedstocks/low-carbon fuels, among others.9  The conclusions from these influential organizations and  initiatives that explicitly place importance on low-carbon fuels  and CCS projects have informed and reaffirmed"
"Valero’s views  on the key role of its current low-carbon fuels strategy and GHG  emissions targets. Low-carbon fuels, CCS and other low-carbon  projects are also supported and incentivized by the regulations,  policies and standards of various government authorities around  the world.  ...Valero is answering that call! We still encounter certain stakeholders who recognize  the value of our low-carbon fuels initiatives and CCS  projects but give no credit to these efforts when  accounting for"
"GHG emissions reductions, and would  like us to exclusively focus on significant reductions  from our refineries (which can only be accomplished by  curtailing production or closing assets).  10 Low-Carbon Innovation For Valero, investments in low-carbon fuels that began in 2009 have  provided an advantage for the company to capture market opportunities.  As of December 31, 2023, we have invested more than $5.4 billion in our  low-carbon businesses, and we expect additional growth opportunities"
"in this area. These investments, which have been held to the same minimum after-tax IRR hurdle rate as our refining  growth projects, have created value for our stockholders and lowered GHG emissions in the transportation sector.  The following are examples of high-return, low-carbon projects that we are producing, developing and/or evaluating: Today, Valero is the world’s largest  producer of liquid low-carbon  transportation fuels. Ethanol Ethanol is a low-carbon, high-octane fuel. When used"
"as a gasoline  blendstock, ethanol boosts the octane rating of the finished fuel.  Valero operates 12 ethanol plants located in the U.S. Midwest, with  a combined production capacity of 1.6 billion gallons per year. The  plants are dry mill facilities that process corn to produce ethanol and co-products, such as dry distillers grains  (DDGs) and syrup for livestock feed, and inedible corn oil. DDGs and syrup are sources of supplemental energy and  protein for livestock and poultry.  Ethanol"
"offers at least 30% lower life  cycle GHG emissions, compared  with petroleum gasoline.2  Renewable Diesel, Renewable Naphtha and Renewable Propane A drop-in fuel interchangeable with petroleum diesel,  our renewable diesel is manufactured primarily from  waste feedstocks, including used cooking oil, recycled  animal fats and inedible corn oil, as well as other  feedstocks such as soybean oil. These feedstocks  are pretreated and purified prior to conversion  into renewable diesel and niche"
"grades, such as  renewable arctic diesel.  Valero is the world’s second-largest renewable diesel  producer and currently operates two renewable  diesel plants located in St. Charles Parish, Louisiana,  and Port Arthur, Texas, with a total annual production  capacity of 1.2 billion gallons of renewable diesel and  50 million gallons of renewable naphtha. Renewable naphtha and renewable propane are  produced in the process and recovered as co- products. With an annual production capacity of 50"
"million gallons, renewable naphtha can be used as a  gasoline blendstock or a feedstock for producing low- carbon petrochemicals.  Renewable propane, similarly, has multiple end  uses, including as a low-carbon fuel, a renewable  petrochemical feedstock or a feedstock in the production  of low-carbon hydrogen. Currently, renewable propane  from our renewable diesel plants is co-processed in  the hydrogen plants at two of our refineries to generate  low-carbon hydrogen. The low-carbon hydrogen is"
"re- routed into the production process further decreasing  the carbon intensity (CI) of renewable diesel, renewable  propane and renewable naphtha. We are also co-processing renewable natural gas from  municipal solid waste in the hydrogen plant at one of  our refineries. The low-carbon hydrogen is used in the  production of lower carbon transportation fuels for export  to Europe. This fuel has a higher market value compared  with petroleum fuels, and certain governments in Europe  use it to"
"help meet GHG emissions reduction targets  or goals. In 2023, we processed nearly 2 trillion BTUs  of renewable natural gas, which doubled the amount  processed in 2022. Renewable diesel reduces life cycle  GHG emissions by up to 80%, compared  with traditional diesel.2  Since 2013, Valero has grown to become  the world's second-largest producer of  renewable diesel.  Low-Carbon Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  11 Benefits of Renewable Arctic Diesel10 11 12 - The cold truth is"
"that winter  temperatures greatly affect the charging and range of electric  vehicle (EV) batteries. Unlike EVs, renewable arctic diesel is designed  to withstand freezing temperatures in arctic climates and maintain  its performance. EVs in Cold Temperatures Renewable Arctic Diesel  (Arctic RD) The lower the temperature, the  longer it can take to charge EV  batteries. Arctic RD is a drop-in fuel,  just like renewable diesel,  made to withstand freezing  temperatures. Cold can decrease battery"
"power, making it challenging  to fulfill optimal charge range  and accessories, such as cabin  heating, seat heating or defrosting  functions. Vehicles powered with Arctic RD  can use all accessories, just like  in any other liquid fuel-powered  vehicle. EV driving range can start to  deplete at 40°F, an unexpected  concern if you are not in proximity  to chargers. Emergency vehicles running  on Arctic RD are reliable and  dependable. In cold temperatures, EVs may  need to be recharged more"
"frequently. Refueling of Arctic RD is quick,  and frequency is not affected by  temperatures. According to Consumer Reports:  “…we found that short trips in the cold with frequent stops and the  need to reheat the cabin saps 50 percent of the range [of an EV].”11  “Under the coldest conditions, the rate of charging [of an EV] was  roughly three times slower than at warmer temperatures.”12 Sustainable Aviation Fuel or SAF Made with feedstocks used in the renewable diesel process, synthetic"
"paraffinic  kerosene (SPK) or neat SAF is a non-petroleum-based fuel. Blending SPK and  traditional jet fuel results in SAF, and current aviation regulations allow SPK to be  blended up to 50% with jet fuel for use in an aircraft. Valero has announced a  large-scale SAF project at its renewable diesel plant in Texas, which is expected  to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2024. The SAF project is intended to  provide optionality to upgrade approximately 50% of the plant's annual 470"
"million-gallon renewable diesel production capacity to SPK. See global SAF  mandates to decrease GHG emissions in the aviation sector on page 15. An alternative pathway for producing SAF is the alcohol-to-jet (ATJ) process. With abundant supply of ethanol,  Valero’s participation in carbon sequestration projects may provide a competitive advantage for ATJ production,  as the CI of ethanol is expected to decrease by more than 40% with carbon sequestration. Fiber Cellulosic Ethanol In addition to"
"starch ethanol,  we use an enzymatic process  to convert waste fibers into  cellulosic ethanol, a second- generation fuel.  Compared to gasoline’s CI of  approximately 100 gCO2e/MJ  and EV's average CI of about  50 gCO2e/MJ (depending  upon battery components,  manufacturing place and the  electric grid),14 cellulosic ethanol  has a CI in the high 20s.15  When combined with carbon  sequestration, the cellulosic  ethanol product can have a  CI in the single digits, further  increasing the value"
"of ethanol  in low-carbon markets. When [cellulosic ethanol  is] used as a vehicle  fuel, it can support deep  reductions in [life cycle]  greenhouse gas emissions,  with a carbon footprint 73%  smaller than conventional  gasoline.15  The commonly used term,  SAF, includes a wide range  of neat SAF blended with  jet fuel. Based on ASTM,  the industry standard  specification, the  maximum blending limit  for neat SAF is 50%.13   12 Carbon Capture  and Storage or  CCS CCS is a proven  technology"
"that has  been in commercial  use for decades in  the oil and gas and  fertilizer industries. It  involves three steps:  1. Capture:  Separation of CO2  from other gases  produced at industrial  process facilities. 2. Transport:  Separated CO2  dehydrated and  compressed prior to  being transported by  pipeline, rail, trucks or  ships for storage. 3. Storage:  CO2 destined for  permanent storage  and injected into deep  rock formations. Industrial Carbon Capture — Valero first used carbon"
"capture technology in 2013  at its refinery in Port Arthur, Texas. Approximately 1 million metric tons of CO2 per  year is captured from two third-party hydrogen plants that produce hydrogen  from natural gas.  Large-Scale CCS —  Valero has agreed  to participate as a  shipper on Summit  Carbon Solutions'  proposed pipeline  project by connecting  eight of Valero's  ethanol plants and  enabling the capture  and storage of  approximately  3.1 million metric tons  CO2 annually, which  could"
"potentially  reduce Valero's  ethanol's CI by  approximately 40%. Stand-Alone CCS — We are continuing to evaluate and develop stand-alone  carbon sequestration projects at several of our Eastern ethanol plants, potentially  capturing more than 1 million metric tons of CO2 a year. Certain of our ethanol  plants are located near geology believed to be suitable for successful CCS  projects, making them potentially attractive for development. Tailpipe CO2 Onboard Capture System Valero continues to"
"support Southwest Research Institute (SwRI) in the development of a solid CO2 separation  membrane to remove CO2 from the exhaust gas of internal combustion engine vehicles, with the objective of  providing an affordable solution to lowering GHG emissions. To date, SwRI has improved upon the initial concept  and demonstrated performance enhancements through design and optimization efforts.  Plans are in place for prototype scaling and testing,  and we have filed patent applications for several"
"novel  technologies. If successful on a commercial scale, cars  built with this technology could compete with EVs as  a low-cost solution for reducing tailpipe emissions.  In addition, even greater benefits to life cycle GHG  emissions reductions are possible if low-carbon fuels are  used in combination with the onboard capture system. SOUTH  DAKOTA MINNESOTA IOWA NEBRASKA FORT DODGE ALBERT  CITY HARTLEY AURORA WELCOME LAKOTA CHARLES CITY ALBION NORTH  DAKOTA PROPOSED  SUMMIT PIPELINE  Low-"
"Carbon Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  13 Appetites that fuel our low-carbon fuels — More than  150,000 restaurants, supermarket chains, casinos,  theme parks, stadiums and arenas nationwide  provide used cooking oil to our joint venture member  for conversion into renewable diesel, much of which is  processed at our renewable diesel facilities.16  What is carbon intensity or CI?  CI means the quantity of life cycle GHG emissions for a particular fuel per unit of transportation"
"energy delivered,  which is expressed in grams of carbon dioxide equivalent per megajoule (gCO2e/MJ). What is life cycle analysis or LCA?  It is a cradle-to-grave analysis. In the case  of liquid transportation fuels, life cycle  analysis (LCA) means calculation of the  aggregate quantity of GHG emissions  related to the full fuel life cycle, including  all stages of fuel and feedstock production  and distribution, from feedstock generation  or extraction through the distribution,  delivery and"
"use of the finished fuel by  the ultimate consumer, as depicted in the  graphic to the right. Do low-carbon fuels reduce GHG emissions? Yes, low-carbon fuels reduce life cycle GHG emissions. In the case of corn ethanol, our product offers at least 30%  lower life cycle GHG emissions,2 compared with petroleum gasoline. The reduction percentage could be higher  if certain feedstocks such as corn kernel fiber are used or if the energy intensity in ethanol's production or supply  chain decreases."
"Depending on the feedstocks and the LCA pathway, renewable diesel offers up to 80% lower life cycle GHG  emissions,2 compared with traditional diesel. The reduction percentage changes depending on the LCA  methodology or pathway, feedstocks and energy intensity in the supply chain, such as feedstock gathering  mileage or distribution mileage of finished product. In addition, global low-carbon fuel programs calculate life  cycle GHG emissions with different assumptions, which can also affect the"
"differential between the CI of renewable  diesel and the CI of the diesel benchmark.  About Low-Carbon Fuels FEEDSTOCK  PRODUCTION AND  TRANSPORTATION FUEL PRODUCTION  AND DISTRIBUTION USE OF THE  FINISHED FUEL CROP-BASED AND  WASTE LOW-CARBON FUEL  FACILITY TRANSPORTATION  FUEL Energy Inputs Chemical Inputs Process Energy Use Material Inputs Are there enough feedstocks to  produce low-carbon fuels? Our ethanol and renewable diesel plants  are in advantaged locations. In the  case of ethanol,"
"the U.S. Midwest offers  abundant corn supply. Our renewable diesel  production is competitively located in the  U.S. Gulf Coast with access to domestic and  global feedstocks, which allows for flexibility  of supply of used cooking oil, animal fats,  soybean oil and corn oil. In addition, the  other member of our renewable diesel joint  venture is the world's largest renderer, which  provides a source of animal fats.  14 Do low-carbon fuels have tailpipe  emissions? Yes, low-carbon fuels"
"combust just like the fossil  fuel counterparts. However, low-carbon fuels have  lower life cycle emissions than fossil fuels due to the  biological origins of the feedstock. For instance, in  life cycle GHG emissions calculations, the tailpipe  emissions released from combusting ethanol are  offset by the carbon uptake during new corn crop  growth. As a result, vehicles running on low-carbon  fuels produce less net CO2 per mile traveled than  vehicles running on conventional fuels. Do low-"
"carbon fuels displace fossil fuels? Yes, California, one of the world's largest consumers  of low-carbon fuels, has reported that, even with  increased population and economic growth, more  than 44% of transportation diesel and more than 6%  of gasoline have been displaced by low-carbon fuels  since 2011.17  Where are Valero's low-carbon fuels  sold?  Our low-carbon fuels are sold around the world,  including continental Europe, Scandinavia, the U.K.,  Latin America, Mexico, Canada and the"
"United States,  especially in California, Oregon and Washington. We  believe that our ability to supply these low-carbon  fuels can play an important role for governments  and others to achieve their GHG emissions reduction  targets. See table below for global low-carbon fuel  regulations and table on page 15 for global SAF. Global Low-Carbon Fuel Regulations19  2030 GHG Emissions  Reduction Target Net Zero GHG  Emissions Target Primary Transportation Fuel Policy  Mechanism 2030 Transportation"
"Fuels Goal California 40% Net zero by 2045 Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS) Reduce the CI of transportation fuels  by at least 20% Canada 40 to 45% Net zero by 2050 Clean Fuel Regulations (CFR) Reduce the CI of transportation fuels by 15% EU 55% Net zero by 2050 Renewable Energy Directive III (REDIII) Replace 29% of transport fuels with renewable  energy, or reduce sector GHG intensity by 14.5% UK 68% Net zero by 2050 Renewable Transport Fuel Obligation  (RTFO) Replace 19% of transport fuels with"
"renewable fuels Other  Policies  in Place •       Oregon’s Clean Fuels Program requires a 20% CI reduction by 2030 and a 37% reduction by 2035. •         Washington State’s Clean Fuel Standard requires a 20% CI reduction by 2034. •   New Mexico enacted a Clean Fuel Standard in 2024, for implementation in 2026. •         British Columbia's LCFS requires a 30% CI reduction by 2030. •  Norway has a biofuel blending mandate for diesel of 40% by 2030. •      Sweden currently has a diesel GHG"
"reduction requirement of 66% by 2030. •       Finland aims for 34% of transport fuels to be biofuels by 2030. Potential  Policies •   Hawaii, Illinois, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, New Jersey, New York, Nevada and Vermont are considering low-carbon fuel  programs. Are Valero's GHG emissions of low-carbon  fuels audited and certified?  Yes, our low-carbon fuels are audited and certified not  only as part of the limited assurance engagement by  external auditors but also by independent"
"auditors  representing the countries, states or provinces where we  sell low-carbon fuels.  In the case of California’s LCFS, each certified pathway  follows very stringent rules and certifications processes.  As of 2023, California’s LCFS had certified more than  1,350 fuel pathways of low-carbon fuel CI calculations.  Pathways are “[v]ariations in feedstock types, origin,  raw material production processing efficiencies and  transportation,” all of which contribute to an individual  producer’s"
"fuel pathway CI18 and are independently  verified. California's certifications are based upon ISO  14064-3 and 14065. The EU requires certification bodies  be accredited to ISO 17065 and 14065 and for audits to be  conducted in accordance with ISO 19011 or the equivalent.  In 2023, more than 50 independent verifications were  conducted on our low-carbon fuels production, some of  which included a partial or full traceability review of the  supply chain.  Why don’t you use the GHG Protocol to"
"measure the carbon content of your low- carbon businesses? We don’t use it because the GHG Protocol is inconsistent  with global low-carbon fuel regulations, which base CI  calculations on LCA and account for the full fuel life cycle.  For instance, combustion of biofuels is not part of the  accounting of Scope 3, Category 11 in the GHG Protocol.  Low-Carbon Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  15 Jurisdiction SAF Mandates CORSIA Program aims to offset growth in CO2 emissions from"
"international aviation above 85% of 2019 CO2 emissions. Participation is  voluntary over 2021-2026 and becomes mandatory for participating nations starting in 2027. EU SAF mandate of 2% in 2025, 6% in 2030, 20% in 2035, 34% in 2040, 42% in 2045 and 70% in 2050. France SAF mandate of 1% in 2022, 1.5% in 2024 and 2% in 2025. Germany National implementation of RED II includes power-to-liquid. SAF sub-mandate of 0.5% in 2026, 1% in 2028 and 2% in 2030. Malaysia SAF mandate of 1% in 2026 and 47% in"
"2050. Norway SAF mandate of 0.5% in 2020 and 30% in 2030. Singapore SAF mandate of 1% in 2026 on outbound flights, possibly rising to 3%-5% in 2030, depending on availability and adoption. Sweden SAF mandate of 1% in 2021 and 30% in 2030. British Columbia  (Canada) SAF mandate of 1% in 2028, 2% in 2029 and 3% in 2030. UK SAF mandate of 2% in 2025, 10% in 2030 and 22% in 2040. Expected to be adopted in 2024. Most of the biofuels policies commonly assess ILUC penalties to account for indirect land"
"conversion that potentially  result from increased biofuels demand. These ILUC penalties – which tend to be fixed values rather than reflecting  the actual practices of the feedstock producer – can account for more than half of a biofuel's carbon intensity and  be the ultimate determiner of the fuel's qualification under low-carbon programs. As shown in the charts below,  the EPA Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) penalizes soybean with an ILUC of 80% of the entire CI calculation, and corn  ethanol"
"with an ILUC of 36% of the CI. While California’s LCFS penalizes soybean with 47% of the CI and corn ethanol  with an ILUC of 28% of the CI of the fuel. These are among the highest of such penalties imposed on U.S. biofuels  programs. By contrast, the same models assign a much lower ILUC penalty to Brazilian sugarcane ethanol. For  instance, the RFS penalizes sugarcane ethanol by only 13% of the CI20 and the LCFS assigns the lower penalty of all  biofuels to sugarcane ethanol.21 Indirect Land"
"Use Change (ILUC) negatively impacts certain domestic crop-based biofuels, benefits  certain imported biofuels, and does not fairly penalize land used for all renewable energy and mining. Valero supports policies that eliminate inconsistencies in emissions calculations that disadvantage  U.S. domestic crop-based biofuels. If ILUC is not entirely excluded (as in the case of solar arrays and  stripped mining), at least, long-standing farmland in the U.S. Midwest should not be treated unfavorably"
"compared with foreign crop-based fuels coming from potentially new deforested land. Corn Ethanol/SAF EPA RFS CA LCFS Canada CFR 40B BTC ICAO CORSIA 0 20 40 60 80 100 non-ILUC ILUC Potential reduction for ag practices CI (gCO2e/MJ) Soybean Oil BD/RD/SAF EPA RFS CA LCFS Canada CFR 40B BTC ICAO CORSIA non-ILUC ILUC Potential reduction for ag practices CI (gCO2e/MJ) 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 See Notes 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27 and 28 on page 78 for chart details. Canada’s CFR excludes ILUC from the model"
"due to limitations such as lack of data and high uncertainty.24 25 Inconsistently, ILUC penalties are not extended to the installation of solar arrays, wind turbines, or the extraction of  minerals to support EV batteries, despite their potential for significant direct and induced land use changes. For  instance, the Department of Energy projects that 10.4 million acres of solar arrays will be needed to help decarbonize  the nation’s power grid – as much as 83% of that acreage will likely be"
"farmland,29 which will need to be replaced.  Global SAF Mandates30   16 EV charging infrastructure is lagging and requires costly changes in existing power grids. Renewable diesel is a drop-in fuel and can result in lower life cycle GHG  emissions than EVs. It is 100% compatible with existing diesel engines, so  no new infrastructure is needed. Climate Solutions Should be  Efficient - EV Mandates are Not We are often asked by stakeholders about EV mandates and how liquid transportation fuels"
"compared with EVs in  terms of performance, affordability and environmental impacts.  •        Achieving the EPA’s demand of widespread EV adoption is estimated to cost around $1 trillion in grid updates by  2035.31  •     Fewer than 10% of American consumers consider current EV charging infrastructure to be sufficient.32  •         Estimates show that it could take $55 billion to meet charging needs, but the current U.S. Administration has  only set aside $7.5 billion.33 Light-Duty Vehicle"
"Emits Fewer  Emissions than an Electric Vehicle34 2022 Southwest Research Institute Study (U.S. light-duty vehicle life cycle emissions) Diesel Engine with Renewable Diesel Outperforms Battery Electric Vehicle34 2022 Southwest Research Institute Study (U.S. heavy-duty long-haul vehicle life cycle emissions) Battery Electric Vehicle Diesel Engine with Renewable Diesel (waste oil based) Embedded  Emissions 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Electricity/ Fuel Emissions Zero emissions vehicles are not zero"
"emissions g CO 2 / mile Battery Electric  Vehicle Diesel Engine with  Renewable Diesel Embedded Emissions  (zero miles traveled) 1,600 1,400 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 500,000 Miles Traveled 1,000,000 Miles Traveled 60% fewer emissions than an EV after 1,000,000  miles traveled  Tons CO2 The amount of critical minerals used in one battery  electric vehicle could be used to make 6 plug-in  hybrid electric vehicles or 90 hybrid electric vehicles.  The overall carbon reduction of those 90"
"hybrids over  their lifetimes is 37 times as much as a single battery  electric vehicle.35 1 Battery Electric  Vehicle 6 Plug-in Hybrid  Electric Vehicles 90 Hybrid Electric  Vehicles  Low-Carbon Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  17 EV mandates are not affordable for many working families and will limit their physical  and economic mobility.  •       Current plans for EVs in California impair access to reliable  and affordable vehicles for low- and moderate-income  communities.39"
"•  EV mandates will disproportionately affect lower-income people  by pushing them out to farther suburbs, increasing costs of living,  and limiting job opportunities and school options.39 EV mandates are infeasible and require a seismic surge in mineral production (i.e.,  lithium's global demand is predicted to increase 40-fold from 2020 to 2040).36  •        Foreign countries of concern dominate the entire EV battery supply chain (including mining, material  processing, cell components,"
"battery cells and EV manufacturing). Certain locations where these activities  take place have been associated with allegations of human rights violations, forced and child labor, and  environmental degradation claims.37 •       The current U.S. Administration is attempting to shift mining and processing of critical minerals to domestic  sites with more regulations, but these new mining sites often face significant opposition and permitting  obstacles, and could take an average of 16.5 years to"
"be fully functional.38 More than 68% of U.S. adults believe  a mix of fuels should be used.41  46% of U.S. EV drivers want to go  back to gas-powered cars.40  Our community members cannot afford $40,000 electric vehicles, or pay  more than $15,000 to replace the batteries in a 'used' electric vehicle. - The Two Hundred, civil right leaders committed to closing the wealth gap  of hard-working families and individuals. Instead of EV mandates, we support the use of transportation choices  and are"
"currently supporting the development of a wide range  of solutions to reduce GHG emissions, from cellulosic ethanol to  sustainable aviation fuel and a tailpipe CO2 onboard capture system. China dominates the downstream and midstream global EV battery supply chain36 Geographical distribution of the global EV battery supply chain, 2023 Mining Material processing Cell components Battery cells EVs EVs Batteries Anode Cathode Gr Co Ni Li Gr Co Ni Li 100% 75% 50% 25% 0% Indonesia Russia Other Chile"
"Australia DRC Korea Japan United States Europe China Low-carbon fuels such as renewable diesel and ethanol are  available today and can reduce GHG emissions right now. Source:  International  Energy Agency  (2024), Global  Critical  Minerals  Outlook 2024,  page 30, IEA,  Paris.  18 GHG Emissions 42  Independent Limited Assurance  Since 2021, we have engaged one or more independent third parties to evaluate, validate and/or verify our GHG  emissions disclosures, which we intend to continue"
"completing annually going forward. In 2024, this included  limited assurance on/of:  •      Company-wide 2023 GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2), including refining, renewable diesel and ethanol. •   Company-wide 2023 GHG emissions reductions achieved with our renewable diesel and ethanol  production, as well as the blending of and credits from low-carbon fuels.  •         Company-wide 2023 Use of Product GHG Emissions Intensity per barrel and per unit of energy.  •  The validation of our 2035 GHG"
"emissions target. Copies of independent limited assurance verifications can be found on our website at www.valero.com >  Investors > ESG > Other Reports. All calculations were found to be science-based and in conformity with  acceptable engineering practices. Value Chain Analysis With the intent to address the demands of some stakeholders to disclose Scope 3 GHG emissions, we conducted a  value chain analysis. The analysis proved to be complicated and yielded insufficient data to meaningfully"
"quantify  GHG emissions related to the use of the products we manufacture and highlighted the difficulty in accurately  assessing upstream and downstream carbon emissions.  With approximately three million transactions conducted  yearly with more than 3,000 counterparties upstream and  downstream of our refineries (for feedstock purchases  and product sales, respectively), we found that many of  our crude oil feedstock suppliers provided limited or no  public disclosure of Scopes 1 and 2 GHG"
"emissions. Similarly, an analysis of our more than 2,800 customers revealed  that many, including some of the largest purchasers of our fuels, have limited or no public disclosure of Scopes 1 and  2 GHG emissions. Furthermore, as a merchant refiner, we are unable to ascertain the final use of all of our products.  Although most of our products are sold as transportation fuels, some of our products have multiple potential uses.  For example, some of our products, including naphtha and liquefied"
"petroleum gases, have several downstream uses  aside from combustion, such as in plastics and petrochemicals production.  After careful consideration, the lack of publicly available GHG emissions disclosures proved to be an insurmountable  hurdle for accurately calculating our value chain GHG emissions. Another limitation of the value chain analysis and  methodologies, such as the GHG Protocol, is its inability to take into consideration the life cycle GHG emissions  benefits from low-carbon"
"fuels.  To address the limitations of the value chain analysis, we introduced a metric called Use of Product GHG Emissions  Intensity, which is the GHG emissions intensity of the assumed use of company-wide products on a per barrel basis,  and recently, we added the same metric on a per unit of energy basis. Further details on these metrics are provided  on pages 20 and 21.  Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  19 GHG Emissions 2035 Medium-Term Target1  Our GHG emissions target"
"reflects our unique strategy. Refinery absolute reductions and our low-carbon  projects are expected to generate reductions and displacements equivalent to 100% of the tonnage from our  global refinery GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) by 2035. Each component below showcases our strategy: 2025 Short-Term Target1  In 2022, three years ahead of schedule, we achieved  our 2025 GHG emissions target to reduce and  displace the equivalent to 63% of the tonnage from  our global refinery GHG emissions"
"(Scopes 1 and 2). In  2023, we continued to exceed this target. Refinery GHG Emissions in 2011 (Scopes 1 & 2) 2023 63% Target 32.3 Million MT CO2e 2050 Long-Term Ambition  By 2050, Valero has an ambition to reduce and displace company-wide GHG emissions for Scopes 1, 2, 3 and 4  by more than 45 million metric tons CO2e. 2038 Update  By 2038, refinery absolute reductions and our low-carbon projects are expected to generate reductions and  displacements equivalent to 100% of the tonnage of the GHG"
"emissions from our refining, renewable diesel and  ethanol business segments (Scopes 1 and 2), including from refining, ethanol and renewable diesel production. Total Reductions and Displacements  20 Our Progress up to 2023 GLOBAL REFINING 2021 2022 2023 Refining throughput of crude oil and other feedstocks (million BOE) 1,017.3 1,077.8 1,087.3 GHG emissions, Scope 1 (million metric tons CO2e) 23.7 24.8 24.9 GHG emissions, Scope 2 Market-based (million metric tons CO2e) 4.9 4.9 5.1 GHG"
"emissions, Scope 2 Location-based (million metric tons CO2e) 5.0 5.0 5.2 LOW-CARBON FUELS 2021 2022 2023 GHG emissions, Scope 1 (million metric tons CO2e) 2.1 2.1 2.3 GHG emissions, Scope 2 Market-based (million metric tons CO2e) 0.5 0.5 0.5 GHG emissions, Scope 2 Location-based (million metric tons CO2e) 0.5 0.5 0.5 GHG emissions reduction achieved with displacements (million metric tons CO2e) 16.7 20.5 22.4 COMPANY-WIDE GHG EMISSIONS INTENSITY FROM THE USE OF PRODUCTS 2021 2022 2023 Use of"
"Product GHG emissions Intensity per barrel (Kg CO2e / bbl) 266 266 253 Use of Product GHG emissions Intensity per unit of energy (g CO2e / MJ) 51 51 48 Scope 1 Intensity - GHG emissions from the refining process relative to refining peers The chart to the right  compares Valero’s  global refinery Scope 1  intensity in million metric  tons CO2e per thousand  barrels of oil equivalent  (BOE), relative to peers’  performance using  peers’ publicly available  disclosures, including  annual reports"
"on Forms  10-K and sustainability  reports.  Refining peer group includes PSX,  MPC, DINO and PBF. 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Peer Range Valero Metric tons CO2e per thousand BOE  Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  21 GHG Emissions Direct GHG emissions (also known as Scope 1): corporate  disclosure of our Scope 1 GHG emissions from fuel combustion  and hydrogen production sources at our 15 petroleum refineries  can be estimated following the GHG reporting"
"program  obligations under U.S. 40 CFR Part 98 (Subparts C, P, Y and PP);  the Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/2066 of 19  December 2018 on the monitoring and reporting of greenhouse  gas emissions pursuant to Directive 2003/87/EC of the European  Parliament and of the Council; and Quebec – Q-2, r. 15 -  Regulation respecting mandatory reporting of certain emissions  of contaminants into the atmosphere. We also calculate and separately disclose the direct GHG  emissions (Scope 1)"
"from our 12 ethanol plants and 2 renewable  diesel plants following the GHG emissions reporting program  obligations under U.S. 40 CFR 98 (Subpart C). Indirect GHG emissions from the consumption of energy and  steam purchased by the organization for its use (also known  as Scope 2): to calculate Scope 2, we follow the guidance  from two approaches in the GHG Protocol: market-based and  location-based. We calculate Scope 2 for our three segments:  refining, ethanol and renewable diesel. Scope 1"
"Intensity: to calculate the GHG emissions from the  refinery process per unit of throughput, we divide the global  refinery Scope 1 in million metric tons CO2e (as described above)  by thousand BOE. Refining peer group includes PSX, MPC, DINO  and PBF. Similarly, we calculated peers' Scopes 1 intensity by  dividing refining Scope 1 by refining throughput disclosures,  which were sourced from public filings, such as annual reports  on Forms 10-K and sustainability reports. Indirect GHG emissions"
"intensity from the use of products  on a per barrel or per unit of energy basis: there is not  currently a standardized methodology for calculating Scope  3 GHG emissions, and the inherent unreliability of Scope 3  calculations renders such metric of limited value. At Valero,  we have complied with mandated GHG emissions reporting  requirements for more than a decade related to GHG emissions  of the use of our products, as required by the EPA. Therefore, for  the calculation of the numerator we"
"follow the U.S. 40 CFR Part  98 (Subpart MM), which includes the complete combustion  of each petroleum product and natural gas liquid produced,  used as feedstock, imported, or exported during the calendar  year, based upon the carbon content of each material. The  numerator includes both the disclosure from our U.S. refineries  as required under U.S. 40 CFR Part 98 (Subpart MM) and from  our refineries in Canada and the U.K., in conformance with  U.S. 40 CFR Part 98 (Subpart MM). Because it is"
"a company- wide reporting, the calculation of this metric includes the GHG  emissions from low-carbon fuels displacement of petroleum  fuels (“displacements”) and the absolute GHG emissions  reductions from CCS, if any.  The denominator in the intensity calculation in kg CO2e per  thousand BOE is the company’s refining throughput, ethanol  production and renewable diesel sales. The denominator in  the intensity calculation per megajoule (MJ) is the total energy  from the company’s refining"
"throughput, ethanol production  and renewable diesel sales using energy factors (MJ/gal)  from the California Air Resources Board’s Greenhouse Gas,  Regulated Emissions, and Energy Use in Transportation 3.0  model (CA-GREET3.0 model) used by California’s Low Carbon  Fuel Standard (LCFS). Displacements: this represents the tonnage reduction  of GHG emissions equivalent (CO2e) that result from the  substitution of petroleum fuels with the production of,  blending of and credits from low-carbon"
"fuels, including,  but not limited to, products that we currently produce or  are expected to produce as part of our publicly available  GHG emissions targets (such as ethanol, cellulosic ethanol,  renewable diesel, renewable naphtha, renewable propane  and SPK or neat SAF), as well as low-carbon fuels we procure,  including ethanol and biodiesel. This calculation is based  on a comparison of low-carbon fuels LCA and the fossil fuel  benchmark LCA, which could vary depending on the product"
"and/or the jurisdiction.  For our production of renewable diesel, the CI estimations  are based on the actual market-based CI assigned to the  product from the verifications and audits from jurisdictions  where renewable diesel production was sold. In the case  of our production of ethanol, the CI estimations are based  on the Argonne National Laboratory GREET3.0 2021 model.  Regarding the CI estimations for ethanol and biodiesel  that we procured to fulfill our blending obligations, we used"
"the Argonne National Laboratory GREET3.0 2021 (ethanol)  and 2019 (biodiesel) models and published papers. When  calculating the displacements from blending and to avoid  double counting, our low-carbon fuel production that  contributes to our blending obligation is excluded. Under the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board's (SASB)  Standards Application Guidance 3.0 Reporting Boundaries,  as the operator of the consolidated entity, displacements   include the entire production of renewable"
"diesel, renewable  naphtha, renewable propane and SPK or neat SAF of the  consolidated entities that we operate. Scope 4: this calculation of avoided GHG emissions is used  only in the 2050 Long-Term Ambition. It is informed by the  GHG Protocol for Project Accounting and does not follow the  LCA methodology. The calculation is based upon Valero's  total production of, blending of and credits from ethanol,  and sales of, blending of and credits from renewable diesel,  renewable naphtha and"
"biodiesel. The low-carbon fuels  volumes were converted to energy-equivalent volumes of  the corresponding petroleum products and multiplied by the  emissions factors of the petroleum fuels. Energy densities  and emissions factors were sourced from the CA-GREET3.0  model and U.S. 40 CFR Part 98 (Subpart MM). Under the SASB's  Standards Application Guidance 3.0 Reporting Boundaries,  as the operator of the consolidated entity, our avoided GHG  emissions include the entire production of renewable"
"diesel,  renewable naphtha, renewable propane and SPK or neat SAF  of the consolidated entities that we operate. GHG Emissions Methodologies There is not currently a standardized methodology for calculating GHG emissions. For instance, direct GHG  emissions that result from on-site sources controlled and owned by the firm, commonly referred to as Scope 1,  can be calculated using different parameters and methodologies. Another well-known example is the calculation  of Scope 3, which is"
"inherently unreliable because of the varying interpretations of indirect emissions that are a  consequence of the activities of the company, but are outside of its control.  At Valero, we have complied with mandated GHG emissions reporting requirements for more than a decade. As a  result, we have established a robust process to disclose our GHG emissions inventory following the GHG emissions  regulatory frameworks in the U.S., Canada and the U.K., and global LCA regulations applicable to low-"
"carbon fuels.  The methodologies we use to calculate our GHG emissions reporting are described below:   22 Environment We are committed to the responsible use and management  of natural resources. At Valero, we understand the importance of  protecting the natural environment, not just in the  future, but right now. As such, we are focused on  maintaining our operations in an environmentally  responsible manner; investing in low-carbon  fuels production and renewable energy projects  that"
"contribute toward reducing company-wide  GHG emissions; and participating in ecological  and conservation projects. We have made  Geospatial Measurement of Air Pollution (GMAP)  vans equipped with Duvas DV3000 instruments  are used to tour most of our refineries' fenceline  communities and allow for early response and  mitigation actions even on small emissions sources. multibillion-dollar capital investments to sustain  our operations as part of our commitment to safety,  reliability,"
"preventive equipment maintenance  and environmental responsible operations for our  refineries. Although we have formal processes  and environmental monitoring systems designed  to protect our people, our communities and the  environment, we initiate mitigation actions as soon as  we identify an environmental event.  Environment Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  23 Environmental Management  Systems (EMS)  Environmental Risk Management: We have employees  at each of our refineries,"
"ethanol plants and renewable  diesel plants dedicated to environmental excellence  and risk mitigation. Formal risk assessments, including  hazard identification, risk evaluation, analysis and  mitigation are implemented at every site. In addition,  we provide training so employees are skilled and  competent to perform duties in an environmentally  responsible manner. Our compliance team monitors  and communicates changing regulations and  helps to verify our operations comply with legal"
"requirements. We have processes in place to assess  the implementation and effectiveness of operational  controls and for tracking and evaluating environmental  performance. Our programs are designed to ensure  documents are identified, managed and maintained,  as appropriate. Valero’s progress on environmental  management, including strategic planning, goals  and objectives, is internally reviewed at least annually.  We use both internal and third-party audits in our  approach to environmental"
"management. These  audits and verifications are conducted to identify the  adequacy and effectiveness of our environmental  controls, regulatory compliance and excellence vision.  Additionally, our Pembroke refinery is ISO 14001 certified.  Valero has well-developed management structures  central to decision-making and risk management,  including three robust programs that help us oversee  our environmental management.  1. Commitment to Excellence  Management System (CTEMS)  CTEMS is a"
"proprietary systematic approach to  planning, executing, checking and acting to improve  everyday work activities at many of our refineries and  plants. Within each of the nine elements of CTEMS, we  have identified multiple expectations to achieve our  commitment to excellence, including:  •    Leadership Accountability – Leaders at every  level demonstrate their commitment and personal  accountability for operational excellence as a core  value through their active and visible participation"
"in CTEMS. Leaders make employees aware of CTEMS  expectations, actively involve them in the processes  and share learning across the organization. They are  expected to review CTEMS performance results on an  annual basis.  •     Protecting People & Environment – We have  a formal process to help identify and ensure  that our ongoing operations are compliant with  all relevant health, safety and environmental  laws and regulations. Identifying and assessing  risks and potential environmental"
"impacts are  also components of this process. Additionally,  environmental performance indicators are  established, monitored and reported, and programs  and processes are in place to drive improvement.  •        People & Skills Development – Training processes  are in place to ensure that employees receive  appropriate training throughout their employment.  We expect our teams to effectively communicate  with and listen to each other, fostering an  environment of collaboration, creative"
"thinking,  teamwork and open communications.  •         Operations Reliability & Mechanical Integrity – Quality assurance programs, inspections and  preventive maintenance standards are in place  to ensure reliability of equipment. Valero’s internal  risk matrix is used to evaluate hazards, incident  investigations, recommendations, process hazards  analysis results and high-risk activities.  •   Technical Excellence & Knowledge Management –  The Project Development and Execution Process  (PDEP)"
"is in place to incorporate health, safety,  environmental, reliability, operability, maintainability  and loss prevention standard requirements into the  selection, development and execution of projects.  An internal incident and significant near-miss  reporting and investigation process is in place,  and a company-wide tracking system is used to  ensure timely sharing of information and closure of  corrective actions.  •  Change Management – A process is in place to  ensure permanent and"
"temporary changes are  in accordance with the Valero Management of  Change standard.  •      Business Competitiveness – Programs are in  place to improve energy and operating efficiency.  Competitive benchmarks are used and evaluated,  and gap closure plans are implemented. A  procurement process supports safe and reliable  plant operations. Our annual strategic planning  drives business competitive improvement.   24 •       External Stakeholder Relationships – Programs, such  as community"
"advisory panels or community advisory  councils, are in place to facilitate meaningful dialogue  with local communities and raise awareness of  potential community issues.  •        Assurance & Review – CTEMS is assessed periodically  using a disciplined and systematic approach. The  effectiveness of all policies, programs, processes  and procedures is reviewed to ensure they are  appropriate and address the commitment for continual  improvement. 2. Environmental Excellence and Risk  Assessment"
"(EERA)  EERA elevates the environmental audit and compliance  functions to an environmental excellence vision. Its main goal  is to assess the design and effectiveness of environmental  performance regarding specific excellence objectives and to  facilitate continuous improvement across the company. EERA  defines more than 100 expectations and involves a proprietary  five-step process (generally summarized below) using due  diligence on data and field assessments reviewed by a  combination of"
"external and internal subject matter experts.  •        On-Site: Refinery leadership reviews and self-scores  against EERA expectations.  •     Digital Documentation: Third-party and in-house  subject matter experts conduct an extensive deep-dive  review of refinery environmental data and reports in a  due diligence-style process.  •         Technology: Technical field assessment is conducted  using industry standards and advanced technology to  evaluate effectiveness in controlling emissions."
"•   Inspection: Results from the technology review and due  diligence process are used by a team of experts in a  substantive on-site inspection and cultural assessment.  •        Implementation: Final gap assessment report is  produced by experts and leadership team with  mitigation pathway and scoring improvement actions. 3. Fuels Management System (FMS)  FMS provides operational safeguards, software,  training and protocols for uniformity across our  refineries, terminals and import locations"
"to  reinforce our compliance with applicable fuels  regulations.  Built on the success of FMS, our Low Carbon  Assurance Program (LCAP) was implemented  to further delineate and strengthen our  internal processes. LCAP defines key regulatory  requirements, management expectations  and internal regulatory assurances relating to  transportation fuels regulated by low-carbon fuels  programs. Internal and third-party audits, incident  investigation processes, informal and formal  training programs"
"and consideration of market  changes are just a few of the expectations laid out  in our LCAP. LCAP leadership commits within their  respective areas to:  •        Clearly define the responsibilities and  accountabilities of leadership and supporting  staff who are involved with carrying out  compliance with low-carbon fuels regulations  and the LCAP.  •        Provide resources to help our facilities and  operations fully comply with applicable  regulations.  •  Verify that affected employees"
"receive  training for their specific job roles.  •       Report, investigate and take corrective action  to minimize, mitigate and prevent recurrence  of violations of low-carbon fuels regulations.  •         Execute an internal risk assessment and  assurance program to periodically evaluate  compliance with low-carbon fuels regulations  and the LCAP and take any necessary  corrective actions. In early 2024, we completed the first round  of the refining EERA program by conducting  environmental"
"excellence and risk assessments  on all 15 refineries during the last four years.  In addition, progress on the improvement  opportunities identified by each of these  assessments has been monitored by subject  matter experts and members of the  management team.  Methane emissions are mainly associated  with the extraction and transportation  of oil and gas, and smaller methane  emissions may also be emitted from  process leaks from valves and connectors  as part of the refining process."
"Although  our refineries use natural gas, methane  emissions account for less than 1% of our  GHG emissions inventory.   Environment Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  25 6. Routine Optical Gas Imaging (OGI) Inspections of storage  tanks, wastewater treatment operations and other equipment  are performed using OGI cameras equipped with infrared  technology capable of detecting VOC leaks that are not  visible to the naked eye.  7. Unit Battery Limits Monitors placed around the"
"perimeter  of refinery process units continuously measure for target  compounds. These stationary air monitors serve as an early  warning system if elevated concentrations are detected.  8. Personal H2S Monitors are required to be worn by refinery  personnel while in and around process units, continuously  measuring for H2S, sounding an alarm and recording in the  event elevated H2S is detected. 9. Five-Gas Monitors are routinely used by personnel within  the refinery for measuring H2S, SO2, CO,"
"oxygen and lower  explosive limit levels for safety purposes and also as early  detection to identify and correct issues that could impact  ambient air quality.  10. Fenceline Benzene Monitors are located around a  number of our refineries at designated intervals to collect  composite samples. Additionally, stationary analyzers  that detect total VOCs or specific compounds, such as  benzene, are deployed at certain sites in areas at or inside  the fenceline to allow for advanced notification of"
"elevated  concentrations. 1. GMAP Vans Equipped with Duvas DV3000  Instruments provide real-time mobile air  monitoring and quality screenings. The vehicle- mounted DV3000 is a monitoring instrument with  a gas analyzer that uses ultraviolet spectroscopy  and a meteorological station to identify and  quantify up to 14 different gases, including  benzene, SO2 and NOx, at low part-per-billion  levels. With an analyzer response time as short as  one second, the DV3000 combines measurements  with"
"geographic mapping of gas concentrations,  and enables rapid detection and source location  of air emissions during monitoring.  2. Continuous Emissions Monitoring Systems  (CEMS) are placed in the outlet stacks of certain  fired equipment (boilers and heaters) as well as  process vents like the Fluid Catalytic Cracking  Unit (FCCU). CEMS continuously measure the  concentration of compounds, such as NOx and  SO2, exiting the stack to confirm operations are  within permitted limits.  3."
"Continuous Flare Monitoring Systems are  installed on flares to measure the amount of  process gases routed to the flare for destruction  and track operational parameters to confirm the  flare is operating properly.  4. Stack Testing is conducted periodically on  equipment that does not require continuous  emissions monitoring to confirm it is operating  properly and within permitted limits. 5. Leak Detection and Repair (LDAR) programs  ensure our operating sites comply with the  EPA's air"
"quality regulations for reducing fugitive  emissions. Inspections are conducted on a routine  basis. Leaks identified are fixed and re-monitored  to confirm repairs were effective. In 2023, we  implemented an enhanced LDAR program using  optical gas imaging, resulting in improved leak  identification and cost savings.   Managing Air Emissions  In addition to the comprehensive air monitoring programs already deployed at our refineries as required by  regulations and/or air permits, we have"
"implemented advanced monitoring systems that go beyond regulations  to identify and reduce air emissions. Ambient air readouts allow refineries to monitor the surrounding communities  and take early response and mitigation actions even on small emissions sources. We have the following air  monitoring programs:  GLOBAL REFINING 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 NOx (MT) 8,700 7,900 8,400 9,200 9,100 SOx (MT) 8,800 7,600 7,600 7,800 7,400 PM10 (MT) 2,200 2,200 2,600 2,400 2,200 VOCs (MT) 7,700 7,500 7,500"
"6,600 7,000 Fresh water withdrawn (million m3) 164.1 164.6 166.1 182.0* 187.0 Oil spill events to land (>1 bbl) 14 21 28 23 23 Oil spill events to water (>1 bbl) 3 4 0 2 2 For more information, see SASB report and the notes thereto beginning on page 76.  *Beginning in 2022, fresh water withdrawn includes volume that was withdrawn and  sold. Values in prior years include only freshwater used in Valero's operations.  26 •    Heat Transfer: Our refineries utilize heat integration  technology to"
"improve energy efficiency and reduce  energy-related operating expenses. Heat exchangers  enable the transfer of thermal energy from high  temperature process streams to lower temperature  streams, decreasing natural gas or refinery fuel gas  needs for heating and lowering utilities requirements  for cooling. Renewable Energy and Efficiency  Initiatives In 2023, roughly 26% of our total refinery energy  consumption originated from renewable sources,  including:  •      Hydropower: More than 99%"
"of the electricity used  at our Quebec City refinery comes from renewable  sources – mainly hydropower, with small portions from  wind, biomass, solar and thermal.  •        Wind Power: Adjacent to our McKee refinery in the Texas  Panhandle, our wind farm includes 33 wind turbines with  50 megawatts of power generation capacity.  •         Cogeneration Plants: Fueled by natural gas, our  cogeneration plants reduce our dependency on local  power grids, which are often costlier. Cogeneration is a"
"highly efficient and reliable way of producing electricity  and thermal energy or steam with the steam used in  the refining process. Valero has cogeneration systems  at refineries in Wilmington, Benicia, Port Arthur and  Pembroke.  •       Expanders: At six of our refineries, we have installed  “expanders” on processing units that generate power  from exhaust gases. In all, our expanders are designed  with the capacity to annually displace more than  600,000 tons of carbon dioxide that"
"otherwise would  be generated by conventional power plants. Waste Management  Valero remains focused on reducing the generation of  wastes across air, water and solid streams. Reducing at  the source and reusing, recycling and repurposing of  materials are key components of our waste reduction  program.  In 2023, Valero implemented a customized Waste  Navigator database across the U.S. refining fleet. The  database tracks waste from generation to ultimate  disposition, driving  standardized"
"waste  management practices and  systemic improvements in  waste reduction, reuse and  recycling. In addition, the  database allows closer oversight of disposal vendors.  Hazardous Waste: In 2023, more than 40 million pounds  of catalyst were recycled to recover valuable metals.  Valero’s hazardous waste management program includes  96% of all refinery  hazardous and  exempted waste was  recycled in 2023.  regular waste reviews, risk assessments, waste stream  prioritization and formal personnel"
"training programs.  Every operating site follows specific expectations on the  handling and recycling of hazardous wastes as specified  in CTEMS.  Spill Prevention: Valero is focused on reducing spills  across our operations to protect our people and the  environment, always with the goal of zero spills. Our  commitment to reducing environmental scorecard  incidents is a top priority and is strengthened by the  inclusion of this metric in the all-employee bonus. The  environmental scorecard"
"incidents metric is weighted to  the intensity of incidents, with greater impact for more  significant events, including the severity of spills. The cogeneration unit at our Wilmington refinery  reduces our reliance on the local power grid and  increases energy efficiency. The Valero Houston Refinery, having only  one Environmental Scorecard event in  2023, was awarded the Valero Chairman's  Environmental Award for the seventh time in  the 20-year history of this award.  Environment"
"Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  27 For Valero, being the most efficient and reliable operator in a highly competitive industry means being a better  environmental performer. We look for ways to reduce emissions and waste, reusing energy and byproducts,  recycling materials and repurposing wastes.  •    Flare-Gas Recovery Systems Resulted in More  Than 96% Flaring-Free Operations: Nearly 80%  of Valero’s large process flares are equipped  with flare-gas recovery systems. These"
"systems  reduce flaring and air pollution, and recover fuel  gases, which are used to fire heaters and boilers,  reducing natural gas consumption.  •  Sulfur Removal: Sulfur recovered in  refining processes is used for a variety of  beneficial purposes, including crop fertilizer,  pharmaceuticals, detergents and cosmetics.  Sulfuric acid is also critical for the extraction of  nickel, cobalt and rare earth minerals from their  ores.  •        Marine Vapor Recovery Units: At certain refineries,"
"captured vapors generated when loading vessels  with gasoline and other light products are routed  back to the refinery for reprocessing.  •       Fuel from Oil Waste: Our high-conversion  refineries are capable of upgrading oil waste into  high-value fuel and products.  Reducing, Reusing, Recycling and Repurposing •     Wastewater Management: Process water and  stormwater are managed at our wastewater  treatment plants. We use bacteria to digest  oil and treat wastewater streams to clean the"
"water before returning it to the ecosystem.  •  Energy Efficiency Initiatives: We prioritize  improvements in process monitoring and  control systems to reduce energy consumption,  which in turn reduces costs and carbon  emissions.  •      Repurposing of Material Recovered from Tank  Cleaning: Recovered material is reprocessed in  our refineries and upgraded to fuels and other  products or used as fuel at third-party facilities,  avoiding landfill waste.  •   Water Recycling: With innovative"
"approaches,  we use each gallon of water on average more  than 16 times prior to evaporation or return to  the environment.  Refinery Energy Intensity43 (Million Btu/bbl throughput) As a result of refinery optimization, started more than 10 years  ago, Valero's refinery energy usage per barrel has declined  over time with capital investments, including flare-gas  recovery and other energy efficiency projects. 0.44 0.38 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2013 2015 2017 2019 2021 2023  28 Water"
"Management  Water management is a critical component of our  business, and we continue to work with stakeholders  to improve our performance, while also reducing  consumption by:  •     Taking a risk-based approach to water management  and integrating water strategy and water security  into our long-term planning and business processes.  •     Engaging with local governments, industry  associations, suppliers and regulatory agencies to  develop innovative solutions in water management  and"
"conservation in water-stressed areas.  •   Assessing and managing regional water risks  through updated sustainability assessments.  •     Ensuring compliance with water management laws  and regulations.  •     Reporting on risks posed by water scarcity on each  facility, as applicable.  •         Protecting existing water resources through sound  water management policies.  •        Recycling and reusing water to improve efficiency.  Most of our water consumption takes place in our refining"
"operations. Based on the revised version of the World  Resources Institute’s Water Risk Atlas tool, Aqueduct, we  determined that three of our 15 refineries are located in  regions with high baseline water stress. Reduction and  mitigation initiatives include the evaluation of reused  municipal wastewater for cooling tower purposes and  acquisition of secured water rights. Water scarcity can  be a risk not only to communities but also to the refining  operations, as water is needed for cooling,"
"heating and  processing.  We have taken several steps to secure our operations in  conditions of water scarcity.  •  At our Wilmington refinery, we are installing facilities  to use treated municipal wastewater to supplement  our cooling tower makeup water. Upon project  completion, we expect to save up to 420 million  gallons of potable water per year, equivalent to  roughly the annual amount consumed by 3,800 U.S.  households.44  •        Our Three Rivers refinery recycles treated  wastewater"
"for use in irrigation for hay production.  Water risk management is integrated into  our operational and long-term planning  to mitigate and reduce water risks. •       Our McKee refinery recently commissioned a  novel Closed Circuit Reverse Osmosis Treatment  technology to treat and reuse brine (water with high  concentration of salt) instead of freshwater in the  cooling tower process, which is expected to replace  25 million gallons of water annually from the Ogallala  Aquifer. •  Our Corpus"
"Christi refineries pay into a broad  industry fund that provides water-supply security  and supports research and plans for the construction  of a desalination facility to serve industrial users.  •       Our Welcome ethanol plant was one of the industry’s  first operators to achieve “zero discharge” of  wastewater by recovering and recycling process  water and stormwater.  •   Process water and stormwater are treated as  necessary before discharging or reusing. Our  wastewater treatment plants"
"are generally  comparable to and as effective as those operated by  most cities. High-efficiency cooling towers are used to  cool process water for reuse.  Environment Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  29 Biodiversity We engage in diverse ecological projects with local, state and federal regulatory agencies, as well as with  neighbors and nonprofit partners. We work together with local and regional organizations that provide a variety  of environmental services ranging from the"
"protection of endangered species and restoration of wetlands  to reforestation, rehabilitation of former industrial sites and promotion of environmental awareness through  educational training programs.  Biodiversity Impact Assessments  As part of our permitting processes, we comply with local, state and federal regulations related to potential  biodiversity impacts in the planning, approval and implementation phases of certain capital projects. 2. Permit/Approval Phase – Valero undergoes  a"
"robust permitting process and collaborates  with local, state and federal regulatory agencies.  Additionally, our corporate subject matter experts  review impact assessments from the pre- construction and planning phase.  For major capital projects, a presentation including  permitting information, impact avoidance plans,  identification of endangered species and other  biodiversity impacts, if applicable, is presented  at the executive management level. Major capital  projects must be approved"
"by the Board before  advancing to the implementation phase.  3. Construction/Implementation Phase – For  site preparation and other related soil-disturbing  activities, we initiate stormwater management  controls to reduce impacts on lakes, rivers, streams  and other surface waters. These controls consist  of a variety of best management practices  integrated into our Stormwater Pollution Prevention  Plans, which comply with federal, state and  local stormwater pollution control requirements,"
"including planning, temporary and permanent  sedimentation and erosion control measures,  stream- and wetland-crossing procedures,  inspections and general good housekeeping  practices.  During major construction and where warranted,  we also provide training programs on topics  such as threatened and endangered species  awareness and identification, stop-work protocols  and reporting. To protect ecosystems from  unintended releases of materials, we implement  comprehensive pollution prevention"
"and incident  response programs. 1. Pre-Construction/Planning Phase – A dedicated  team of environmental experts works closely with  our engineering and commercial departments to  perform environmental due diligence. As part of our  consideration of threats to biodiversity, we often  perform environmental field studies to verify and  delineate natural resources within proposed project  areas. For significant greenfield projects where  alternative locations are considered, the most viable"
"locations are surveyed. This data further drives project  decisions on avoidance of sensitive features and  habitats and informs site selection.  The following natural and cultural resource  considerations are part of the evaluation process:  •  Locations of surface waters and wetlands.  •    Threatened and endangered species habitats.  •  Previously recorded archaeological sites,  historic structures and areas of tribal interest or  significance.  •        Existing developed areas versus"
"undeveloped  greenfield sites.  •       Public lands, including parks, nature preserves and  wildlife conservation areas.  •    Federal Emergency Management Agency  floodplains.  •    Surface water intakes.  Valero partnered with Ducks Unlimited for the Meraux  Terracing Project to enhance marshlands by planting  marsh grasses and trees, and sequestering CO2 near  the Valero Meraux Refinery in Louisiana.   30 30 2023 Biodiversity and Conservation Initiatives  The following programs and projects"
"are part of our biodiversity initiatives beyond the company's business  activities. We prioritize the needs of local nonprofits and other community stakeholders when selecting biodiversity  projects and value these opportunities to engage with our neighbors. Nature-Based Carbon Capture Programs: •  Plant giveaway at Corpus Christi Refineries: Since 2022, Valero  has sponsored the annual Earth Day-Bay Day plant giveaway  event where Valero volunteers have distributed a total of  approximately"
"6,400 native trees and plants to the Coastal  Bend community.  •   BCarbon: Valero has supported BCarbon, a nonprofit nature- based carbon dioxide capture and storage registry, to continue  research and development of BCarbon's living shoreline project  in the Texas Gulf Coast, consisting of oyster reef breakwater  systems. These natural bank barriers help to restore shoreline  habitat, reduce erosion, improve water quality and enhance  fish and wildlife habitat.  •     Pontchartrain"
"Conservancy: Valero continued its partnership  with the Pontchartrain Conservancy committing $1 million in  support of the five-year reforestation project. In 2023, Valero St.  Charles employees planted a total of 1,000 trees that consisted  of bald cypress, green ash and water tupelo during two  volunteer events. To date, over 52.5 acres have been restored  with over 5,300 trees planted across multiple sites in and  around St. Charles and St. Bernard Parishes.  Valero's commitment to"
"environmental  stewardship was recognized with the  Wildlife Habitat Council's Conservation  Certification for the marsh reforestation  project in a partnership with the  Pontchartrain Conservancy. Valero volunteers planted native  and resilient tree species to  promote urban greening at Valero's  Montreal East terminal site in Canada. Valero volunteers contributed to  the restoration efforts by planting  native bald cypress, water tupelo,  and green ash trees in the LaBranche  wetlands along"
"Lake Pontchartrain.  •        Tree Planting at Valero Montreal East Terminal: In  collaboration with the Société de Verdissement du Montréal  Métropolitain, an organization that develops green space  strategies in urban environments, Valero volunteers planted  approximately 750 trees, including more than 20 species  of native trees and shrubs well-suited to thrive in urban  conditions. Soil characterization was performed to ensure  quality and structure to create a resilient dense forest that"
"can  stand up to the stress of an urban environment for generations  to come.  Environment Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  31 Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  31 Wildlife Protection Programs:  •   Nature Boardwalk (Pwllcrochan Environmental Centre):  Valero Pembroke Refinery in the U.K. has partnered with  Pwllcrochan Environmental Centre for over 20 years to  support their nature boardwalk educational program.  In 2023, over 900 students visited the site where"
"Valero  volunteers support educators during teaching sessions to  help students learn about the wildlife and habitats around  the site. •  Biodiversity Action Plan: Our Pembroke refinery  implemented a Biodiversity Action Plan through which  it creates and sustains habitat for wildlife on 500 acres  it owns outside its fenceline. This includes initiatives  such as the preservation of grass and wildflowers for  pollinators, including bumblebees and butterflies, as well  as bird rehabilitation and"
"protection efforts. The work has  focused on kestrel birds, an Amber-listed bird species  of conservation concern in the U.K., which has resulted in  successful kestrel breeding nests during the last 20 years at  the refinery grounds.  •         Iowa Department of Natural Resources: The Valero Albert  City Ethanol Plant is allowing the Iowa Department of  Natural Resources (DNR) access to the site’s stormwater  pond to band goslings. In 2022 and 2023, over 100 goslings  were banded, which will"
"help the DNR track the population  and observe their migration and travel patterns.  Water-Focused Programs:  •    Gulf of Mexico Alliance: The Valero Port Arthur Refinery  became a 2022 Gulf Star Partner with the Gulf of Mexico  Alliance by supporting its Ocean Guardian School Program  in collaboration with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric  Administration. This five-year program supports a  teacher leader at Lincoln Middle School in the Port Arthur  Independent School District to execute"
"conservational  projects with students throughout the school year. In 2023,  students learned about the importance of watersheds, the  6 Rs that include Rethink/Reuse/Reduce/Reuse/Rot/ Recycle, impacts of marine debris and the steps they can  take to reduce trash that enters waterways.  Digital microscopes were used enabling  students to have a closer look at the aquatic  animals at the Pwllcrochan Environmental  Centre in Pembroke, U.K.  Students are learning how to be responsible  and"
"conscientious stewards of our  waterways through Valero's support of the  Ocean Guardian School Program at Lincoln  Middle School in Port Arthur.  32 Safety Safety is our foundation for success. At Valero, we believe that safety and reliability are  extremely important, not only for the protection of our  employees and communities, and the cultural values  we aspire to as a company, but also for operational  success, as a decrease in the number of employee  and process safety events should"
"generally reduce  unplanned shutdowns and increase the operational  reliability of our refineries and plants. This, in turn,  should also translate into a safer workplace with fewer  environmental incidents and stronger community  relations. We strive to improve safety and reliability  performance by offering year-round safety training  programs for our employees and contractors, and  by seeking to promote the same expectations and  culture of safety. We also seek to enhance our safety"
"performance by conducting safety audits, quality  assurance visits, and comprehensive safety and risk  assessments at our facilities. Process safety and  operations employees  at the Valero St. Charles  Refinery  Safety Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  33 Valero Safety Excellence Program (VSEP) - This tool aligns field  audits with our proprietary Valero Safety Assessment for Excellence  assessments to help support and drive continuous improvement at  our facilities. The revised"
"“peer observation tool,” within VSEP, builds  upon the principles of a traditional behavior-based safety program. It  emphasizes hazard identification and mitigates risk by encouraging  personalized and meaningful conversations between employees and  contractors.  Electronic Energy Isolation List (eEIL) - Protecting personnel from  hazardous energy during maintenance activities is one of the most  critical tasks routinely performed at our facilities, and tolerance for  error is zero. Valero is"
"in the last stages to complete the rollout of  an eEIL system designed to increase efficiency and ensure better  protection of our employees and contractors when performing  equipment maintenance.  Contractor Selection and Prescreening Criteria - We have enhanced  the contractor evaluation and prescreening criteria to encourage  continuous improvement and selection of best-in-class contractors.  All business partners are expected to participate in our supplier  management system, which begins"
"with an initial screening and  includes ongoing monitoring of risks related to health, safety,  environmental and quality performance, as well as supplier selection,  employee training and qualifications, insurance coverage, and  financial strength and stability. The supplier management system  also assesses contractor and supplier risk management policies and  practices covering a wide variety of topics. Safety Initiatives Recently Implemented Majority of refineries designated  as VPP Star"
"Sites by OSHA,45  recognizing exemplary  occupational safety, process  safety and health programs. Safety Management Systems  Through the various disciplines within Occupational Safety and Health, we provide one of the most fundamental  ways of caring for our employees, contractors and neighboring communities. Safety plays an important role in  many of the major elements of CTEMS. Examples of safety programs and initiatives under CTEMS include, but are  not limited to, the following: Protecting"
"People & Environment •        Compliance with all relevant health, safety, and  environmental laws and regulations.  •        Occupational health program, including industrial  hygiene monitoring, medical surveillance programs,  fatigue prevention and other human factor  programs.  •  Processes to identify, communicate and safely  handle chemicals, hazardous materials and wastes.  •     Ensuring all sites prepare for and respond to all  levels of operational emergencies. Safe, Stable & Reliable"
"Operations •      Operating, maintenance, safe work and inspection  programs are in place, rigorously followed, verified  and updated.  •         Quality assurance programs to ensure materials  meet designated specifications.  •      Processes to prevent repeat failures.  •        Employee participation programs to maintain a  positive and open safety culture.  People & Skills Development •         Employees receiving appropriate training  throughout their employment.  •       Processes to"
"review and update training programs.  Technical Excellence & Knowledge •   Incident and significant near-miss reporting and  investigation processes to ensure timely sharing of  information and closure of corrective actions. Valero McKee Refinery  34 Valero McKee Refinery - The Valero  Chairman's Safety Award is granted  to the site with the most outstanding  personnel and process safety  performance. Notable achievements  by the Valero McKee Refinery  include zero recordable employee  or"
"contractor injuries in 2023, zero  employee injuries in three years, zero  contractor injuries in five years, zero  Tier 1 Process Safety events in 2023  and VPP Star site since 2019. Valero Charles City Ethanol Plant -  The Chairman's Award for Excellence  in Renewables was awarded for no  employee or contractor recordable  injuries in nearly four years, no Tier 1  Process Safety Events in more than  10 years and no scorecard reliability  events in 2023. Following this plant’s  turnaround in"
"2024, the Valero Charles  City Ethanol Plant is projected to reach  record run rates that are 60% higher  than the original design. Valero Houston Refinery - The Valero  Chairman's Refinery Reliability Award  is determined primarily by the number  of downtime events, both stewardable  and non-stewardable, and the  percentage of refinery unit downtime,  both annualized turnaround  downtime and downtime outside of  turnarounds. In 2023, for the sixth time  in the award’s 18-year history, the"
"winner of this award was the Valero  Houston Refinery. This refinery had  no stewardable unit outages for two  years straight and tied for best “time  on tools performance within our  refining segment. Additionally, the site  had no Tier 1 Process Safety Events,  led the segment in non-turnaround  downtime and had the least  amount of unit downtime, outside of  turnarounds over the last two years.  The AFPM Annual Safety Awards are the industry’s premier safety  awards. The Elite Platinum Safety"
"Award recognizes sites that have  demonstrated superior program innovation and leadership over time;  the Elite Gold Award recognizes facilities with safety performances in  the top 5 percentile; and the Elite Silver Award recognizes the top 10  percentile of industry safety.  •       One 2023 Elite Platinum Award – Awarded to the Valero Three  Rivers Refinery. •         Two 2023 Elite Gold Awards - Awarded to the Valero Houston and  McKee Refineries.  •    One 2023 Elite Silver Award – Awarded"
"to the Valero Wilmington  Asphalt Plant.  Innovation Award (Occupational Safety) recognizes companies that  have developed and implemented new and innovative ways to identify  and manage operating risks. Since the award's inception in 2020, Valero  has received eight of the 23 total innovation awards given.  •   Two 2023 Innovation Awards – Awarded to the Valero McKee and  Three Rivers Refineries.  Safety Achievement Award  •     Five 2023 Safety Achievement Awards - Awarded to the Valero"
"Houston, McKee, Memphis and Three Rivers Refineries, and the  Valero Wilmington Asphalt Plant. 2023 Safety Awards American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers  (AFPM) Safety Awards  Valero Chairman’s Awards U.S. Department of Labor Occupational Safety and  Health Administration's (OSHA) Voluntary Protection  Program (VPP)  Our participation in OSHA's Voluntary Protection Program exemplifies  our consistent pursuit of going beyond regulatory requirements by  voluntarily submitting to robust"
"safety audits. OSHA approves VPP  Star Site status only if the facility demonstrates that enhanced safety  systems have been implemented and embraced in a collaborative way  by leaders and employees. Sites are reassessed by OSHA every three to  five years in order to maintain their VPP status.  •  VPP Star Site status at nine refineries: Ardmore, Corpus Christi  (East and West), Houston, McKee, Memphis, St. Charles, Texas City  and Three Rivers Refineries.  •    Other facilities with VPP Star"
"Site status: Corpus Christi Asphalt  Plant, Houston Asphalt Plant, St. James Terminal, Valero Aviation  Department and the St. Charles renewable diesel plant. •         Valero's international refineries, Pembroke and Quebec, have  received VPP's equivalent assessment and approval.  In 2023, the Valero Wilmington Asphalt Plant entered into a cooperative  program with Cal/OSHA46 called Cal/Reach that is designed to assist the  site in becoming a VPP Star Site.   Safety Environmental, Social and"
"Governance Report  •  35 Goal Zero Safety Program  Our Goal Zero program is designed to  eliminate incidents and injuries in six  focus areas by taking a data-driven risk- based approach. The program utilizes  comprehensive incident reporting data  and evaluates each incident against the  AFPM Personal Safety Incident Matrix,  tailored for the refining industry. This  matrix classifies incidents according  to their potential outcomes, injury  type/consequence and activity/cause  contributing"
"factors. Each of our Valero  sites establishes goals and objectives  aligned with each of the Goal Zero’s six  focus areas and provides monthly reports. Valero’s Safety  Assessment for Excellence  (VSAFE) VSAFE re-engineers the traditional health  and safety audit and compliance model  to focus on driving health and safety  excellence. VSAFE assesses the design  and effectiveness of safety performance  in more than 120 expectations that are  key to driving culture and continuous  improvement."
"Using a proprietary process  with site data, field assessments, and  employee/management interviews,  subject matter experts work alongside site  champions at each refinery to perform  this assessment every three years. Heavy Equipment/  Vehicle Operations Energy Isolation  and Control Personnel  Exposure Hand Awareness  and Safety Slips, Trips and Falls Dropped  Objects •    360 Walk-Arounds/Circle  for Safety. •  Refinery Vehicle  Management. • Management/Incident  Accountability Meetings. •"
"Training Qualification  Verification. Heavy Equipment/ Vehicle Operations •     LOTO and Blinding. •    Energy Isolation Lists. •       Bleeder Management. •   Zero Energy Verification. •     Equipment Clearing to  Return to Service. Energy Isolation and  Control •       Reducing Health Hazards  such as: • H2S. • Chemical Contact. • Heat Exposure. • Inhalation Hazards. • Low Oxygen. Personnel Exposure •  Impact/Cut-Resistant  Gloves. • Enhanced Job Hazard  Analysis (JHA), Permitting  and"
"Assessment Tools. •        Pre-Job Hand Hazard  Evaluation. •      Assessments and  Inspection for Hand Power  Tools. Hand Awareness and Safety •  Focused Worksite  Assessments. •        Mechanical Integrity  Inspections (walking- working surfaces). •        SRLs (Self-Retracting  Lanyards). •     Area Housekeeping  Accountability. Slips, Trips and Falls •     Maintenance Planning for  Elevated Work. •      Tool Tethering. •       Barricades/Mesh/ Canopies. •    Lifting Equipment  Upgrades. •"
"Enhanced JHA, Permitting  and Assessment Tools. Dropped Objects Valero Albert City Ethanol Plant   36 Life-Saving Rules In order to ensure full compliance with our safety  policies and procedures, Valero implemented Life- Saving Rules – seven, long-standing critical rules  that must be followed at all times. Any violation  of a Life-Saving Rule will result in the most serious  levels of discipline. By undergoing comprehensive  training, realistic field exercises and adhering to  these critical"
"rules in day-to-day operations, our  employees and contractors make Valero a place  where we can all feel proud and safe coming to  work every day. Employee Safety Training Safety training ensures that our employees are provided the knowledge, skills  and abilities required to execute their jobs to the highest standard. As stated in  our CTEMS expectations, all employees receive appropriate training throughout  their employment. This includes training in emergency preparedness, process safety,"
"the seven Life-Saving Rules,  and on all processes and equipment changes affecting their job assignments, as well as cybersecurity risks. Training  programs include computer-based sessions, instructor-led courses, frequent safety meetings and daily safety talks.  We also have internal processes in place through which we continue to review and update our training programs. Personnel Safety Performance (Recordable injuries per 200,000 working hours) 0.62 Valero employees  and contractors Refining"
"industry47  Total Recordable Incident Rate  (TRIR) 0.31 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2012 2011 2023 In 2023, our refinery employees  completed more than 673,000  hours in safety training programs. Work with a valid work permit when required.  Verify energy isolation before beginning work.  Obtain authorization before entering a confined space.  Obtain authorization before overriding or bypassing a  safety system.  Use specified life protection equipment.  Protect yourself"
"against a fall when working at heights.  Smoke in designated smoking areas only. 1 3 2 4 5 6 7 Valero Fort Dodge Ethanol Plant Valero Memphis Refinery 0.60 1.10  Safety Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  37 Contractor Safety Training As safety is a top priority, the contractors we hire are required to  uphold the strong safety culture of Valero in their everyday work.  In 2023, our contractors completed more than 870,000 safety  training hours. In addition, contractors working at"
"Valero refineries  have been awarded a total of 26 OSHA VPP Stars.  All contractors are prescreened by a third party to ensure they meet or exceed Valero’s health and safety  expectations. Contractors are also trained initially and annually through a reciprocal contractor safety council  focused on site-specific health and safety requirements. As a part of our CTEMS expectations, we have a  program in place to ensure contractor alignment with Valero's safety, health, environmental and"
"reliability  expectations. This includes:  •     Clear accountabilities and requirements for safety and contract performance.  •         Requirements for contractors to have in place controls ensuring procured materials and services are  verified and qualified as contracted. In the last two years, nearly half  of our 12 ethanol plants have  gone without an employee  recordable injury and no Tier 1  Process Safety Events (PSE). Valero Leads the Transition to Non-Fluorinated Fire Suppression Foams"
"During the last five years, Valero has worked diligently on its commitment to set new industry standards  with the elimination of PFAS-containing AFFFs48 in fire suppression solutions in favor of non-fluorinated  alternatives. This decision came after extensive testing of alternative fire suppression solutions while  still meeting the stringent performance requirements for firefighting in highly flammable environments.  This transition has also been enhanced with comprehensive training programs"
"in emergency response  protocols. Valero Refineries vs. Other Sectors47 (Recordable injuries per 200,000 working hours) Petroleum Refineries 0.6 Finance, Insurance and  Real Estate  0.8 Electric Power Generation 1.0 Manufacturing 3.2 State and Local  Governments  4.9 Valero Refinery Combined  Employees and Contractors  0.3 Education and Health  Services  4.2 Hospitals 6.1 Framing Contractors 7.1 Safety Performance Metrics 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Personnel Safety  Employee (TRIR)  0.25 0.35 0.21"
"0.32 0.40 Personnel Safety  Contractor (TRIR) 0.39 0.15 0.27  0.15 0.24 Fatality Rate  Employee  0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Fatality Rate  Contractor 0.00 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.00 Process Safety  Event Rate - Tier 149  0.05  0.06 0.05 0.08 0.05 Process Safety  Event Rate - Tier 249 0.17 0.17 0.16 0.18 0.20 Global Refining (Recordable injuries per 200,000 working hours)  38 Process Safety and Reliability Our process safety and reliability programs proactively  contribute to our goal of operational"
"excellence.  These programs provide safeguards for certifying  our equipment is correctly designed, regularly  maintained and safely operated. Valero employs  an industry-leading technical process safety and  reliability assessment program to drive first-quartile  reliability performance and help maintain the safety  of our employees and communities. We continue to  evaluate and utilize state-of-the-art process control  and equipment monitoring technology to optimize  operations efficiency."
"Through CTEMS, we have mature processes in place to  analyze PSEs. Understanding the reasons for a PSE is the  first step. We then take necessary actions to prevent  repeat failures, address unreliable equipment or  improve specific program expectations to ensure safe  and reliable operations. Valero began developing a suite of technical  assessments over 10 years ago to inform the annual  strategic resource planning process and ensure  continuous improvements are made in the most  Mechanical"
"Availability  Our high mechanical availability rate is a result of our highly reliable refinery operations and is  underpinned by our CTEMS expectations of:  •  Avoiding unplanned downtime.  •         Implementing our structured turnaround  planning process.  •    Minimizing environmental impacts.  •    Ensuring efficient use of resources.  In addition to our capital investments in reliability, our comprehensive reliability assessments,  proprietary management systems and internal strategic"
"planning process are essential in the  reduction of environmental incidents and improving safety. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2012 2011 2023 2010 97.4% 97.5% 97.0% 96.5% 96.0% 95.5% 95.0% In 2023, we achieved 97.4% refining mechanical availability  making it a new best-ever performance. 2023 BEST YEAR EVER FOR AVAILABILITY MECHANICAL impactful areas. Below is a list of some of the most  mature technical assessments and focus areas:  •     MAIN – Inspection and mechanical"
"integrity.  •  ESARN – Electrical systems.  •  ROTO – Rotating equipment. •    PACE – Process automation and controls  effectiveness.  •       CYBER – Cybersecurity.  •       AOE – Alkylation operations excellence.  •      ORA – Operational reliability.  These assessments leverage the expertise of  our technical subject matter experts who work  alongside site champions to evaluate the design and  effectiveness of each site’s specific reliability programs.  The results identify areas of"
"opportunity, which  are prioritized to help each site achieve our overall  operational excellence goals. Many of our more mature  assessments were updated in 2023 to account for  progress driven through our CTEMS annual focus areas  and site-specific improvement plans. These updated  assessments will allow priorities and resources to shift to  remaining opportunities and new emerging issues.  Safety Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  39 PSE Tier 1 Rate, Five-Year Average50  (per"
"200,000 working hours) Improved Operational Risk  Management Programs – We  developed and implemented  new risk assessment standards  and tools designed to improve  the consistency and efficiency  of existing programs. New  electronic systems were  introduced that leverage  technology to provide more  immediate operating data and  system information for analysis,  trending and corrective  actions. Enhanced Incident  Investigations – Performing  quality incident investigations  has been a"
"priority for many  years. This has resulted in  a very strong process that  ensures quality corrective  actions to prevent a  recurrence. In 2023, Valero  issued new tools and training  focused on the identification  of human and organizational  performance opportunities for  improvement. Shared Learning – To leverage  the benefits of our enhanced  incident investigation process,  Valero continues to introduce  new and innovative ways  to effectively share incident  investigation learnings  more"
"broadly using various  multimedia tools, including  webcasts and animated  videos. Process Safety  Initiatives  Implemented in  2023: 0.12 0.10 0.08 0.06 0.04 0.02 0.00 2013 2014 2019 2020 2021 2022 2015 2016 2017 2018 2023 0.059 20 15 10 5 0 2022 2023 15 8 PSE Tier 1 Count 2022 2023 0.08 0.05 0.10 0.08 0.06 0.04 0.00 0.02 PSE Tier 1 Annual Rate In 2023, Valero set multiple process safety performance records: •   The Five-Year Average PSE Tier 1 rate of 0.059 is our best- ever performance. •"
"Eight PSE Tier 1's is a record low and our best year ever. •    2023 PSE Tier 1's is nearly half of 2022 PSE Tier 1's. •        The Annual 2023 PSE Tier 1 rate equaled our best years ever  recorded in 2019 and 2021. •       A record nine refineries ended the year having recorded  Zero PSE Tier 1's in 2023. In addition, two refineries have  achieved four straight years with no PSE Tier 1's. This is a  significant achievement and is recognized as industry- leading process safety performance.  40"
"Managing Physical Risks  With refineries along coastlines and ethanol plants in the U.S. Midwest, Valero has long evaluated and prepared for  physical risks to its facilities from natural disasters and weather events, including hurricanes, tornadoes and other  threats. Our emergency preparedness and response programs are focused on the mitigation of these risks. Hurricane Preparedness  Valero’s U.S. Gulf Coast facilities are periodically exposed to hurricanes and other severe weather events,"
"including  strong winds, storm surges and flooding. While our refineries are engineered to withstand these weather impacts,  our management and refinery leadership teams use a sophisticated hurricane-specific preparedness program  to protect our people and assets. This includes pre-hurricane season activities, as well as a five-phase process  to monitor evolving conditions as the storm approaches, allowing for adequate time and resources for our  employees and facilities to safely prepare.  At"
"the start of hurricane season with facility plans reviewed and updated, verify supplies and  begin daily monitoring.  Assess predicted storm path and potential for impact.  Determine site(s) that are likely to be significantly impacted, and activate the Corporate  Emergency Operations Center, operating plan and contingencies, call center and equipment  and service providers.  Execute shutdown, ride-out and/or evacuation plans.  Initiate post-hurricane response, including the assessment of"
"impacts on employees, the  environment, surrounding communities and plant operations and implementation of plans for  recovery, support and safe startup of operations. Enhancing Physical Resilience  In the last 10 years, Valero has invested  more than $14 billion of capital to sustain its  operations, including turnarounds, catalysts,  investments in safety, preventive equipment  maintenance, environmental mitigation, and  reliability and regulatory compliance. Sustaining  capital is used to"
"keep our facilities performing  and to mitigate and reduce physical risks to our  operations and our people, including:  •        New infrastructure at raised elevations to  reduce the effects of flooding.  •  Upgraded critical buildings, including control  rooms and employee shelters resilient to  physical risks.  •    Refineries designed to withstand hurricane  forces, with safe shutdowns and non- essential personnel evacuations initiated in  advance of major hurricanes. PHASE  1 PHASE  2"
"PHASE  3 PHASE  4 PHASE  5 Emergency response team at Valero St. Charles Refinery  demonstrates Valero's strong relationships with local  response personnel.  Safety Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  41 Emergency Management Planning  Our emergency management planning  includes:  •   Emergency response plans at each  facility that comply with all local, state  and federal regulations and are regularly  updated with third-party assessments to  ensure excellence.  •         Certifying"
"equipment and facilities are  maintained in fully functional condition  and are readily available along with  trained personnel when needed for  emergency response.  •      Ensuring qualified emergency response  teams with strong relationships with third- party response personnel are present  on-site.  •    Performing regular drills and assessments  to promote response readiness and  alignment with our Goal Zero program.  •  Allocating capital resources to emergency  planning and response in the"
"strategic  planning and capital budget processes to  make our facilities efficient and resilient.  •    Employing the use of emerging  technologies to optimize decision-making  and response execution. Valero’s Emergency Response  Team (ERT) Training plays an important part in developing  and maintaining the skills required to respond  effectively to emergency situations. Valero  is committed to providing each member of  the ERT the opportunity to attend training  necessary for developing and"
"maintaining  the skills and knowledge required to be an  ERT member. During training, ERT members  prepare for a variety of scenarios, expand  their skills, share information from experience  and mentor new members. At each site,  the ERT maintains strong relationships with  local community response personnel by  participating in joint drills and assessments.  Frequent ERT training exercises promote  excellent response readiness. As part of Valero’s ongoing efforts to improve emergency"
"response, the Valero Corpus Christi Refineries hosted more  than 100 participants from 15 outside organizations in a two- day training event to strengthen collaboration and response in  case of emergencies.    “Conducting well-executed training exercises is imperative  to build resilience and to validate our preparedness  investments. While training alongside your response partners  and regulators can be challenging, doing so demonstrates  your commitment to the community and builds trusted"
"relationships that will prove critical to our success during a  crisis,” said Danielle Hale, Director of Emergency Management,  Port Corpus Christi. “We are proud of the team at Valero  Corpus Christi Refineries and look forward to additional  collaborative training opportunities in the future.” Valero invested in 13 quick-attack vehicles for its  domestic sites to bolster its emergency response  capabilities.  These vehicles are strategically equipped to  deliver a rapid and efficient response"
"to potential  emergencies, further enhancing Valero's operations  safety protocols and readiness. This investment  reflects Valero's proactive approach to emergency  preparedness and its commitment to adopting  solutions for environmental protection and safety. Quick-attack vehicle deployed to the Valero Meraux  Refinery Valero Corpus Christi Refineries host large-scale, multi- agency drill  42 Community We will be a good neighbor by sharing our success with the communities  where we live and"
"work, through volunteerism, charitable giving and the  economic support of being a good employer. Valero has a long-standing history of engaging  with fenceline communities. We look for  opportunities to collaborate with neighbors,  local officials, regulators and community  leaders to build stronger communities. We  work diligently to engage with stakeholders  at all levels to understand local interests and  needs, and address social, environmental  and economic matters through meaningful"
"involvement. More than 300 Valero volunteers participated in  the 2023 United Way Day of Caring, helping to  renovate the 80-acre campus at Boysville Children’s  Home and Shelter, in San Antonio, which provides a safe  environment for over 300 children affected by abuse,  neglect and family crisis. Valero volunteers assembled  and installed new beds and cribs, painted outdoor and  indoor cottages, landscaped, and cleaned kitchens  and bathrooms throughout campus. Through the years,  Valero has"
"invested nearly $2 million in Boysville.  Community Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  43 $77.6 MILLION+ total generated for charities,  including: $4.5 MILLION global employee giving and  employee volunteerism  $25.9 MILLION corporate investments in the  U.S., U.K., Canada, Mexico and  Peru $19.6 MILLION support for United Way  agencies (U.S., Mexico and Peru) $27.6 MILLION Valero Energy Foundation  investments (including  net proceeds from major  fundraising events such as the"
"Valero Texas Open & Valero  Benefit for Children) 129,400+ Valero employee volunteer hours  globally Protecting and Building Strong  Communities Public awareness and interest in environmental justice (EJ) has  grown along with the current administration's prioritization of  EJ in policymaking. The EPA defines EJ as the fair treatment and  meaningful involvement of all people regardless of race, color,  national origin or income, with respect to the development,  implementation and enforcement of"
"environmental laws,  regulations and policies. In 2022, the EPA released guidance and  principles to include EJ factors in air permitting applications. In 2023, we published the Environmental Justice Audit  Report, conducted by an independent third-party  consultant with expertise in social/environmental justice  and community assessments. This expert concluded  that Valero’s commitment to environmental protection,  community engagement and involvement, and  community investment goes beyond"
"compliance and  aligns with the pillars of environmental justice.51  In 2023, Valero and the Valero  Energy Foundation generated more  than $77.6 million for charities  through employee and company  donations, corporate philanthropy,  fundraising and volunteerism. This  represents an increase of more  than 14%, compared with last year,  and more than 39% compared with  five years ago. Valero strives to operate as a good neighbor and  looks for opportunities to work with local officials  and"
"directly with fence-line neighbors to improve  the quality of life for its neighbors and communities.  Valero aims to treat its fence-line neighbors fairly,  regardless of race, color, national origin, culture  or income. We work to ensure our neighbors  have an opportunity to understand our proposed  activities and to provide them with meaningful  opportunity to have their concerns heard, with the  goal of providing them with greater comfort of our  operations. Valero’s Environmental Justice"
"Policy Statement (adopted in 2009) In 2009, Valero formally adopted an Environmental Justice Policy  Statement, becoming the first major energy company to do  so. Our efforts to collaborate with stakeholders and address  social, economic and environmental concerns are part of being  a good neighbor. We partner with and support organizations  working to improve healthcare access, food security, affordable  housing and other basic needs, and education and workforce  development, all of which are"
"priorities for our communities. 2023 Community  Highlights  44 Regulatory Agencies and Government Officials - Federal, state and local regulatory agencies provide  environmental stewardship through the development and enforcement of regulations. Engagements with  regulators are mutually beneficial, serving as opportunities for Valero to provide business and operations  updates and for agencies to discuss regulatory matters. We also work closely with government officials to  ensure alignment of"
"our business with public policies. Both regulators and government officials are invited to  our refineries and plants as part of our proactive engagement efforts.  Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) - We regularly meet with representatives from NGOs in local  communities to answer their questions, as well as look for ways we can partner on projects for the betterment of  the community.  Indigenous Tribes - We worked with Indigenous tribes to preserve sites with  biodiverse, historical,"
"cultural and spiritual significance on infrastructure  projects. We also work in partnership to address community issues. For  example, Valero partnered with the Chickasaw Nation and the Ardmore,  Oklahoma, YMCA to promote health and well-being through scholarships for  youth sports such as flag football, basketball and baseball. In 2023, 11,000 kids  were enrolled in youth sports.  Industry and Business Partners - We collaborate with industry and business partners to promote mutual  success by"
"embracing the highest standards of responsible operations, including ethical business practices  and compliance with all laws and regulations, health, safety, environment, human rights, labor and governance.  Connecting with Stakeholders To understand local interests and priorities, we proactively engage with all stakeholders, including: Neighbors - We work to ensure our neighbors understand our proposed activities, and we strive to provide them  with opportunities to have their concerns heard."
"Outreach efforts are designed around community needs and  preferences and may include a combination of hotlines, newsletters, direct mailings, electronic notifications,  websites and participation in community advisory councils (CACs) or community advisory panels (CAPs).  Comprised of fenceline residents  and businesses, nonprofit  organizations and government  representatives, CACs/CAPs have  traditionally been a primary  mechanism for Valero to engage  with local communities. We work  closely"
"with the members of our  CACs/CAPs, meeting regularly,  and sometimes partnering on  volunteer activities. In Wilmington, California, the CAP and Valero volunteers  cook a monthly meal for families staying at the Ronald  McDonald House.   Community Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  45 Feedback from Our Neighbors Community Surveys: a favorable impression of Valero - In  October 2022, Valero voluntarily engaged a third-party polling  company to conduct more than 600 random surveys in"
"certain Valero neighboring communities.  An overwhelming majority of residents surveyed recognized  the importance of oil and gas companies to the local  economy, and a majority of residents had a favorable  impression of Valero as a company. Additionally, a majority of  residents did not believe that environmental racism was an  issue in their community. However, a majority of respondents  were at least somewhat concerned about environmental  issues in their local area. This contrast suggests"
"that while  race-related EJ concerns are limited, a general concern over  the level of pollutants in air and water exists.  More than 600 random surveys of community members and  multiple interviews with stakeholders conducted as part of the  independent Environmental Justice Audit Report revealed that  our neighbors held positive views of Valero. Community Interviews:  positive feedback from  organizations advancing  EJ concerns to regulators,  local officials and nonprofits  - Montrose"
"Environmental  conducted in-depth interviews  with stakeholders, including  regulators, local officials,  community organizers and  nonprofit representatives to  collect their feedback. “Valero has a positive impact  on the community and  generationally; Valero is a true  partner.” - Melissa Perrier, Manager,  Campaign & Marketing, United  Way St. Charles “Valero is committed to making  a better community for all to  work and live in. We can’t have  a healthy community unless it is  resilient. A"
"resilient community  starts with a resilient economy.”  - Jesse Gilbert, President & CEO,  Texas State Aquarium “Our local Valero has developed  a culture of giving that is unlike  any other organization that I  have ever seen. Valero supports  and encourages employee  volunteerism. Management  welcomes ideas on how best to  impact the community. It’s truly  an organization that believes  that you have to invest in the  community and they empower  their employees to do it.”  - Janie Johnson,"
"President & CEO,  United Way Port Arthur/Mid and  South Jefferson County Valero’s Houston Refinery joins Houston Mayor John  Whitmire and other representatives to celebrate “East  End Day at City Hall” hosted by the East End Chamber of  Commerce.  Valero is a founding member of this organization,  serving residents and businesses in Houston’s East End  area, near the refinery.   46 Memphis, Tennessee - Valero invested $49,000 in Regional One  Health's oncology program. The program aims to"
"establish the  city's premier academic comprehensive cancer center by offering  world-class cancer care close to home to more than 7,000  patients annually. Three Rivers, Texas - Valero  provided a $250,000 gift to  help with the construction of  a new state-of-the-art Live  Oak Community Health Center  located in Three Rivers, Texas.   The new 6,750-square-foot  medical clinic opened in the  summer of 2024 and offers a  part-time physician, two family  nurse practitioners, a medical  assistant,"
"a behavioral health  provider and other support staff. Wilmington, California - Valero contributed $25,000 to the Wilmington  Community Clinic for pediatric equipment. In 2023, the clinic treated more  than 3,000 children.  American Diabetes  Association Valero supports the Project  Power for Youth initiative in  Houston, San Antonio and  Texas City, to help slow the  trajectory of childhood obesity  and prevent Type 2 diabetes  through nutrition education,  increased physical activity and"
"family involvement for more  than 350 at-risk children. The Impact of Our Investments52  Valero has partnered with numerous healthcare initiatives  in its communities to provide access to programs, clinical  screenings, new state-of-the-art medical equipment and  other resources that help promote health and well-being.  The following are some examples of recent efforts. HEALTH AND WELLNESS $14.2 MILLION TOTAL FUNDS DONATED IN 2023 Port Arthur, Texas - Serving 7,000 patients a year, the Gulf"
"Coast Health  Center received $100,000 from Valero to defray patient financial costs and  to fund overall medical treatment. Dumas, Texas - Valero partnered with the Moore County Health  Foundation and provided $75,000 for a new 3D mammogram system,  which will help increase accuracy for diagnosing and detecting breast  cancer. Houston, Texas - Launched  in 2020, the Communities in  Schools of Houston program Wellness  on Wheels came to life to take care of  students' physical and mental health"
"through cycling at Milby High School.  Valero, a founding donor, has invested  $75,000 in the program and has  contributed with bicycles, helmets and  safety gear for the students. Communities in Schools of Houston, Wellness on Wheels program  Community Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  47 Recognizing that educational opportunities are a path  to success, Valero has partnered with several agencies  committed to ensuring that children and adults have the  knowledge, skills, training"
"and resources to help them thrive.  The following are some examples of recent efforts. EDUCATION AND WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT $16.5 MILLION TOTAL FUNDS DONATED IN 2023 St. Charles Parish, Louisiana  - In 2021, Valero provided  $1 million to River Parishes  Community College (RPCC) for  a new college campus to focus  on education and workforce  training for local residents  interested in pursuing careers  in PTECH or instrumentation. In  2023, Valero contributed $110,000  for a new advanced process"
"control training system and  mobile lab to provide invaluable  hands-on training in measuring  and controlling process  variables for students. Hartley, Iowa - Valero  contributed $100,000 to  Iowa State University for  a new educational center  providing courses on youth  development, agriculture,  human sciences, and  community and economic  development.  Vital to the area's  economic growth, the  agricultural programs  include farm management,  crop and soil resources,  natural resource"
"management, livestock,  women in agriculture,  annual pesticide training  and many more. Texas City, Texas -  Valero contributed  $187,000 to the College  of the Mainland for a  glass distillation unit  in the new Industrial  Careers building. The  unit offers hands- on experience to  train more than 600  process technology  (PTECH) students in the  operation of this type  of machinery for future  careers in refining. Memphis, Tennessee - The  Valero Hope Works Program at  the Palmer Home for"
"Children  gives young people the  necessary work and life skills  to prepare for adulthood. In  2023, more than 280 young  people were involved in the  program. San Antonio, Texas - Valero  donated $500,000 to the  YWCA Women’s Live and Learn  Center, where women, some  with children, are provided with  long-term housing and must  commit to job-training or a  degree program to help break  the cycle of poverty and better  prepare them for the workforce. Boys and Girls Clubs  of America For many"
"young people, the Boys  and Girls Club is a safe place for  after-school or summer mentorship  programs. Activities include  academics, athletics, health and  wellness, character leadership and  workforce readiness. Since 2007,  Valero has invested more than  $9 million in local Boys and Girls  Club affiliates across fenceline  communities in the U.S., including  Amarillo, Corpus Christi, Houston,  Port Arthur, San Antonio, Texas City  and Three Rivers, Texas; Ardmore,  Oklahoma; Aurora, South"
"Dakota;  Benicia and Wilmington, California;  Bluffton and Linden, Indiana; Memphis,  Tennessee; and Meraux, Louisiana. Linden, Indiana - Since 2011, Valero’s  Linden Ethanol Plant has contributed  more than $110,000 to the Boys and  Girls Club of Montgomery County. In  2023, Valero provided the funds to  bring national programs such as Triple  Play, Money Matters and DIY STEM to  70 after-school students per day. First PTECH graduating class of 2024 from  RPCC St. Charles Campus  48 Over the"
"years Valero has supported numerous programs  that provide nourishing meals to help end hunger. The  following are some examples of recent efforts. FOOD SECURITY $2.8 MILLION TOTAL FUNDS DONATED IN 2023 Port Arthur, Texas - Valero  partnered with Nutrition &  Services for Seniors and provided  $45,000 for building renovations  to the food distribution center  that feeds more than 500,000  seniors in Southeast Texas. Houston, Texas - Valero  committed $500,000 toward  Kids Meals’ new"
"54,000-square- foot building. The organization  serves nearly 7,500 children per  day and expects demand to  increase to 26,000 children daily  by 2031. Québec City, Canada - Valero has partnered with Moisson Québec, the  largest food assistance organization in the Québec City area, to help  feed 850 families in need every month by providing 67,500 meals. Backpack Food Program - Since  2007, Valero has contributed more  than $3.3 million to local agencies  to ensure students and families  have"
"meals on the weekends,  during school holidays and summer  breaks. In 2023, Valero invested  more than $550,000 to serve more  than 10,000 students across these  organizations: •  Albion, Nebraska – Blessings in a  Backpack  •  Amarillo, Texas – Snack Pak 4 Kids  •   Aurora, South Dakota – Brookings  Backpack Program  •   Benicia, California – Food Bank of  Contra Costa  •     Charles City, Iowa – Community  School District, Project Rise  •        Crawfordsville, Indiana –  Montgomery County"
"Youth  Service Bureau, Nourish Backpack  Program  •        Houston, Texas – Kids Meals and  Target Hunger •        Hartley, Iowa – Kids Backpack  Program  •       Lafayette, Indiana – Food Finders,  Tippecanoe Backpack Program  •      Port Arthur, Texas – Southeast  Texas Food Bank  •      St. Bernard Parish, Louisiana –  Community Center of St. Bernard  •     Texas City, Texas – Galveston  County Food Bank  •      Waterloo, Iowa – Northeast Iowa  Food Bank  •   Wilmington, California - Food"
"Finders, Food 4 Kids Program  Corpus Christi, Texas  - Valero’s $1.5 million  investment helped the Coastal  Bend Food Bank open the doors  to its new 108,000-square- foot building, which stores and  distributes food for 970,000  individuals annually. Pembroke, UK - Valero donated  $12,000 to Pembrokeshire Food  Bank. Refinery employees  donated thousands of pounds  of food, helping more than 5,000  families. Callao, Peru - More than 6  tons of food was donated  to the Beneficiencia de  Callao,"
"an organization  that cares for the elderly  and underprivileged in the  Callao area, near Valero’s  terminal. Feeding the Soul at the Holidays - In the spirit of caring for its communities, Valero  provided 1,900 families with food items to help prepare holiday meals, partnering  with the Los Angeles Police Foundation in Wilmington, California; Feed the Needy in  Memphis, Tennessee; Corpus Christi Food Bank in Corpus Christi, Texas; Charlotte’s  Cupboard in Port Arthur, Texas; the City of San"
"Antonio; and neighbors in St. Charles  Parish, Louisiana.  Wilmington, California, 400 families  Memphis, Tennessee, 475 families Corpus Christi, Texas, 300 families Port Arthur, Texas, 400 families San Antonio, Texas, 250 families St. Charles Parish, Louisiana, 75 families Food drive in Callao, Peru  Community Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  49 Housing is critical to reducing poverty, increasing economic  mobility, and helping families build strong social and cultural  ties with"
"their communities. Valero works with various  agencies that help provide families with a place to call home.  The following are some examples of recent efforts. HOUSING AND BASIC NEEDS $13.2 MILLION TOTAL FUNDS DONATED IN 2023 Ronald McDonald House - Keeping  children near the care they need  so families can get better together.  Through the years, Valero has  provided more than $3.4 million  to Ronald McDonald House in  many communities where it has  operations, including Wilmington,"
"California; San Antonio, Houston,  Dumas, Corpus Christi and  Texas City, Texas; Memphis,  Tennessee; Aurora, South Dakota;  Bloomingburg, Ohio; Charles City,  Iowa; and South Louisiana.  In 2023, Valero provided over  $275,000 to help more than 1,500  families with travel expenses for  their children’s healthcare needs.  In addition to providing funding  support, Valero volunteers in  Wilmington helped the local Ronald  McDonald House by building a  children’s playhouse and added  trikes, patio"
"furniture, plants for  the garden and lighting, so that  families could enjoy nights outside.  Greyson was  born 10 weeks  early. During  Greyson’s 51- day stay at  his hospital’s  neonatal  intensive  care unit, the  Ronald McDonald House of South  Louisiana provided his mom,  Charlene, with lodging, daily  transportation to and from the  hospital and hot meals. Charlene  said, “Our stay here has been  wonderful. The staff were always  helpful and nice. They treat you  like family.” Benicia,"
"California - Valero supported Rebuilding Together  Solano County’s Veteran Home Rehab that provides necessary  health and safety repairs for low-income veterans. With Valero's  contribution, the agency was able to distribute safe-at-home kits  to 1,600 veterans, active military and surviving families of veterans. Corpus Christi, Texas - Valero partnered with Sea City Work  Camp, a group organized in 1993. The camp teaches young people  technical and leadership skills, and helps them build self-"
"esteem,  while they provide home repairs for families in need. In 2023,  through Valero’s donation of $10,000, volunteers repaired the roof of  a family’s home near the refinery in the Dona Park neighborhood. Memphis, Tennessee - Since 2019, Valero has partnered with Alpha  Omega Veterans Services, which provides lodging services to  transitional veterans. In 2023, Valero provided a $50,000 grant to  the agency’s Homes for Heroes program for a new state-of-the- art home for veterans in a campus-"
"style facility that will also offer  enhanced supportive services such as an exercise gym, library,  basketball gymnasium, arts and music therapy and a full-service  computer lab. More than 250 veterans are served annually. Sea City Work Camp participants repair a roof in the Dona  Park neighborhood near the Valero Corpus Christi Refineries.  50 United Way  Volunteerism is Part of Valero’s  Culture Mexico City, Mexico – In partnership with  Fondo Unido de Mexico (United Way Mexico),  Valero"
"volunteers helped local schools by completing  painting projects, updating bathrooms, enhancing  sports facilities, and creating a safe and clean  student environment.  Port Arthur, Texas – Valero volunteers completely  renovated an old baseball field for Port Arthur's Little  League, giving 200 local baseball players a safe  place to learn the game and take pride in their home  field.  Three Rivers, Texas – Valero volunteers collected 131  binders and 57 backpacks to provide school supplies  in"
"Live Oak and McMullen counties. Houston, Texas – To help local students prepare for  the school year, Valero volunteers distributed 200  backpacks filled with school supplies to children in  neighborhoods near the Valero Houston Refinery. Texas City, Texas – Valero volunteers supported  Galveston County’s Food Bank haunted house by  cooking barbecue plates for more than 4,000 people.  Benicia, California – Valero volunteers supported  the Benicia Lion Club’s Crab Feed, which raised more  than"
"$12,000 for community events, such as vision  and health screenings. Amarillo, Texas - Valero volunteers from the  company's Amarillo Payment Service Center assisted  in packaging more than 25,000 meals to residents in  partnership with High Plains Food Bank. More than 129,400 Employee  Volunteer Hours in 2023 Major Valero Fundraisers Generated  More Than $44 Million In 2023, we pledged more than $20.4 million  to United Way, making our total contribution  since 1980 more than $275 million. Last"
"year’s campaign supported 60 United Way  affiliates across 32 states. “Valero’s support has been an anchor of stability for us  to provide relief and temporary housing after events like  hurricanes and tornados. Put simply, the support from  Valero makes our community a better place.” - John Dias, Executive Director, United Way of  St. Charles Valero's partnership with United Way of North Central  Iowa has been so valuable. They are true leaders in  giving back to the community. - Jen Arends,"
"CEO, United Way of North Central Iowa,  serving Charles City and Lakota Year after year, the Valero Meraux Refinery consistently  ranks among the top most generous workplaces in the  region. Their support has been instrumental in driving  local community impact, closing gaps, and creating  pathways to a better future for countless individuals and  families. - Michael Williamson, President and CEO, United Way  of Southeast Louisiana, serving St. Bernard Parish  Valero earns huge success on the"
"many services to our  community and United Way. - Jackie Wiswell, Executive Director, United Way of  Moore County, serving the Texas Panhandle Valero continuously considers the community's  needs and how they can create a positive impact and  then take action. Valero is the company that every  community hopes for. - Janie Johnson, CEO, United Way of Mid & South  Jefferson County, serving the Port Arthur, Texas,  community  Port Arthur, Texas, Little League baseball field  renovation  Community"
"Business Partner Spotlight: Burns & McDonnell - Since 2003, Burns & McDonnell  has been a critical business partner offering various services, especially  engineering, procurement and construction. They have been involved in the  development of Valero's renewable diesel plant and the SAF project adjacent to the  Valero Port Arthur Refinery. In addition, Burns & McDonnell has been a significant  supporter of the Valero Benefit for Children since 2017, supporting hundreds of  agencies dedicated to"
"the well-being of children. “'We Invest in a Better World' is a principle we at Burns  & McDonnell deeply resonate with, and we take great  pride in the opportunity to contribute alongside our  Valero friends. Together, we strive to make meaningful  differences in communities across the U.S.”  -Ed Anello, Vice President, Burns & McDonnell Valero Texas Open  and Valero Benefit for  Children  The Valero Texas Open  continues to be a leader on  the PGA TOUR in charitable  fundraising, with an all-"
"time total of $256 million,  including funds raised in  2024. With the support  and generosity of Valero's  business partners and  sponsors, the Valero Texas  Open, Valero Benefit for  Children and Champions  fore Charity generated $24  million in proceeds in 2024  alone. The Valero Benefit  for Children funds  children’s programs in  the communities where  Valero operates, to support  initiatives targeting basic  needs, education, and  healthcare. In 2023, funds were  directed to: Basic Needs:"
"32% Education: 44% Healthcare: 24% Making a Difference Around the World We are a significant employer, and we strongly contribute to the local economy in the communities where  we operate. Our direct and indirect financial support helps local businesses, education and other economic  development needs, thereby contributing to the overall health and vitality of the communities where we operate  across the globe. 9,908 53 direct jobs bolstering  local economies with  payrolls 10,000+ contractors"
"$233,331  median total annual  compensation of all employees  for 2023, excluding our CEO54 $1.8 billion  spent in 2023 on maintenance  and growth projects boosting  construction and service jobs Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  51 Eric Fisher, Senior Vice President Product Supply, Trading and Wholesale, is  joined by the 2024 Valero Texas Open champion, Akshay Bhatia, and children  at the First Tee of San Antonio during the tournament. See non-GAAP disclosures beginning on page"
"80.  52 52 People Our people and our company culture are fundamental to our success. Our company  culture and  well-defined  expectations of  ethics and behavior  guide the daily work  of our employees  and support our  efforts to produce  exceptional  results. The six  values that define  our culture are  Safety, Excellence,  Accountability,  Teamwork, Do the  Right Thing and  Caring. Our Company Culture and Human Capital Strategy  Our people strategy and programs are designed and implemented"
"in support of our  business and strategic objectives. In building and fostering great teams, we are guided  by the following: •   We strive to hire and promote top-talent employees with team-oriented work ethics  and values; •        Our pay, benefits and support programs are designed to attract and retain excellent  employees and to reward innovation, ingenuity and excellence; •    We seek to provide a best-in-class work  environment built on a foundation of respect,  accountability and trust;"
"•     We promote a culture of learning intended to  drive excellence at all levels of the organization and to foster career-long growth and  development opportunities for employees; and •   We continually assess employee performance, organizational structures and  succession plans to support operational excellence, efficiency and effectiveness. From our intern program to our Board, and at all levels in between, we strive to build  dynamic and engaged teams. We evaluate the effectiveness of our"
"outreach, recruiting  and retention efforts, in part by reviewing the demographics of our intern program and  of our existing employee population each year, in accordance with our obligations as a  federal contractor. 91% of employees are  satisfied with the range of  benefits Valero has to offer.55  Members of Valero's  operations team at  the Valero Wilmington  Refinery  People Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  53 Global  Employees 9,908 Represented by  Labor Unions 18% Workforce"
"Locations  83%  US 8% U.K./Ireland  7% Canada 2% Mexico/Peru Operations Female Representation 19% Women 10%   Hourly 30%      Professional 21%        Engineers 19%   Senior  Leadership (Director  and Above) Years of Service 31% < 5 Years 20% 5-9 Years 31% 10-19 Years 18% 20+ Years Our Workforce in 202356  U.S. Interns (290 in 2023) 39% Women 61% Men 47% Minority 53% Non-Minority Generations 6% Gen Z 40% Millennial 44% Gen X 10% Boomer Driving Success Through Culture  Our people deserve an"
"exceptional work environment that  welcomes new ideas, cultivates strong teams and promotes  safe, healthy and rewarding careers. Valero's culture values are  built on trust and respect, and act as the compass and source  of inspiration for everything we do. 77% Field Operations 23% Corporate Veteran (U.S.) 12% Self-Disclosed  Disability (U.S.) 14% People Leaders (U.S.) (Supervisor and Above) 23% Women 27% Minority Race / Ethnicity 61% White 25%      Hispanic    7%   Black       7%  Other 39%"
"Minority Turnover Rate (U.S.) 4.1% Strong teams drive successful  organizations. Valero believes  that great teamwork and strong  relationships are built through  respectful collaboration, the  sharing of diverse perspectives  and strong communication. Safety is our foundation for  success. From workplace safety to  health and wellness, employees  are encouraged to promote and  demonstrate their commitment to  safety at all times. Our commitment to integrity  means doing the right thing  for the"
"right reason. Our  people are trustworthy and  set positive examples, leading  to open, honest and sincere  communication. Through caring, we create  opportunities to positively  impact the teams we support,  the environment we share, the  customers we serve and the  communities where we live  and work. Valero employees treat every  day like game day – working  hard, being disciplined and  holding ourselves to the  highest standards to deliver  best-in-class results. Employees make a personal"
"choice to take ownership of  performance. Creating an  environment of accountability  helps achieve important  company goals and drives  excellence. Workforce Commitment - We believe that having employees  from different backgrounds with a variety of talents, experience,  education and perspectives helps create diverse, innovative and  engaged teams, which provide strengths and advantages for our  success. Our policy is to ensure equal employment opportunity  without illegal discrimination or"
"harassment based on race,  color, religion, national origin, age, sex, marital status, physical  or mental disability, veteran status or any other characteristic  protected under applicable law. Our outreach and recruiting  efforts include analyzing and broadening where we recruit and  the business partnerships we foster, and ensuring our recruiting  teams are trained on objective hiring, along with the importance  of hiring candidates who add to our team culture.  Board Oversight - The Human"
"Resources and Compensation  Committee assists the Board in overseeing Valero’s  compensation, succession planning for our CEO and other senior  executives as well as initiatives and strategies in the areas of  human capital management and leadership development.  At least annually, our senior management team, including the  Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer, reports  to the Board on these key focus areas.  54 54 Moving Forward Together  Valero strives to build a sense of"
"community and belonging  for our employees through shared experiences and mutual  respect. A collaborative, welcoming work environment is  fostered through teamwork, networking and open discussion,  along with annual observances and outreach activities.  Stronger Connections Through Engagement  Valero offers employees unique opportunities to build  understanding and create strong connections through  employee networks and discussions, guest forums and  cultural experiences. From day one,"
"employees are  immersed in experiences that reinforce Valero’s culture,  vision and guiding principles, as well as our company’s  position as a responsible, team-driven industry leader. We  work to create supportive environments for all employees.  Employee Networks – Our employees have opportunities to  connect, in person and virtually, through company-driven  and employee-driven networks, including:  •    Team Valero Ambassadors: An employee engagement  network to promote observances,"
"education and  awareness. At field locations, ambassadors also  participate in recruiting and outreach efforts for talent  acquisition to engage top talent across our communities. •  Valero Volunteer Councils: Employees who lead  and promote employee volunteer activities in their  communities. •       Valero Mentor Program (Intern Program): A mentoring  group assigned to summer interns for support and  guidance throughout their internship.  •         Total Wellness Ambassadors: An employee team"
"that  promotes wellness awareness and activities to our  workforce.  •     Women’s Engineering Network: A grassroots network to  share knowledge and experiences unique to women in  the field of engineering. •   Emerging Leaders Network: A United Way-inspired group  of early career employees who connect with each other  and company leaders, build industry knowledge and  understand how their roles support the business.  •    New Employee Integration, Frontline Leadership and  Beyond Frontline"
"Cohorts: Network-building programs  for peers with access to leadership advice to continue  their professional development. Valero Volunteer Council presidents from across  our operations attended training at headquarters,  and volunteered at Meals on Wheels. Creating connections through shared values  includes our U.S. veterans, who comprise 12% of  our workforce companywide. Interns at our Corpus Christi refineries learn on the  job through subject matter experts as part of the  Valero Intern"
"Program.   People Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  55 Attracting the Best Talent  We strive to hire the best and  brightest talent to advance  our company goals and our  industry.  In 2023, we continued to enhance our  recruitment process to expand our talent  network and ensure that Valero attracts  the most qualified candidates. Our hiring  practices support efforts to build the best  teams through robust interview protocols;  expanded recruiting efforts to broaden our pool  of"
"qualified candidates; blind resume reviews;  and partnerships with external recruiters.  Our policies, training and guidance for hiring  managers ensure that new talent strengthens  our culture through innovation, a range of skills  and expertise and unique perspectives Nearly  900 new  employees in 2023. Recruiting Highlights Hiring Training – Hiring managers and  college recruiting teams are required to  complete interview training, which raises  awareness, mitigates bias and provides tools"
"to ensure that all applicants receive fair and  equitable treatment in the recruitment and  hiring process.  Expectations and Standards – We provide  equal opportunities for applicants to ensure  inclusion of women, minorities, veterans with  protected status and qualified individuals  with disabilities. Valero’s Code of Business  Conduct and Ethics further outlines our  expectations, including zero tolerance for  workplace discrimination based on race,  ethnicity, religion, sex, sexual"
"orientation,  disability, gender identification, age or any  status protected under applicable law, or  harassment of any kind.  Reporting Systems – Employees and  contractors have access to a confidential,  toll-free Ethics Helpline that is independently  operated and available at all times. Five-Year Impact 2018 2023 Change Women in Executive  Leadership (VP and above) 11% 18% 64% Women in Senior  Leadership (Director and above) 17%  19% 12% Women in  Engineering 17%  21% 24% Women at Valero"
"Valero values the impact and contributions made  by women throughout the company. For women in  professional and operational roles, Valero provides  programs and resources that support peace of mind at  different stages of life and career progression.  We continue to improve our gender demographics with  respect to women’s achievement in leadership. Valero Pembroke Refinery  56 56 Developing Stronger  Teams  For a dynamic, global workforce,  opportunities are provided to help  employees connect,"
"develop expertise  and strengthen teams. These include,  but are not limited to:  •         New Hire Orientation •  New Employee Integration Program •      Informal Mentorship Program •   Frontline Leadership •  Performance Management Training Renewables Operator  Qualifications - A 12-week program  for newly hired ethanol plant operators  prepares trainees for optimal  performance once on the job, teaching  them to safely monitor, operate and  troubleshoot units in their designated  areas."
"Refinery Basic Operator Training  (BOT) - A 10-week, refinery-based  program lays the groundwork for a safe  and successful career in operations.  By leveraging internal subject matter  instructors and bringing experienced  employees into the classroom to  share their experience and knowledge,  new-operator integration is built on  a foundation of existing expertise  at Valero. In 2023, more than 10,000  applications were received for  more than 200 openings across our  refineries. Successful"
"applicants  demonstrated mechanical aptitude,  a willingness to learn and dedication  to safety. Our selection process is  designed to produce a slate of highly  qualified candidates who, once hired,  are provided this training to prepare  them for their first post and a long- term career. BOT graduate typical starting  pay and rewards exceed  $100,000.57  Education and Community Partnerships In addition to strategic partnerships with major universities, Valero also  partners with local"
"workforce agencies, colleges and high schools that  stimulate and support a community-based workforce. Our education  partnerships include Hispanic Serving Institutions, Historically Black  Colleges and Universities and other academic institutions to connect with  local talent and widen our outreach. Ardmore, Oklahoma  •   Southern Tech  •        Strength In Numbers •   Ardmore ISD  •  Madill ISD •    Marietta ISD •  Oklahoma School for the Deaf •  Veterans and DRS (Rehabilitation  Services) –"
"Okla. Workforce  Solutions •      Military Organizations (Tinker AFB,  Fort Sill Army Base, Okla. National  Guard) •      Murray State College – Single  Mothers Success Program  (focused on STEAM) Corpus Christi, Texas  •     Buccaneer Commission •  Corpus Christi ISD •    Craft Training Center •         Del Mar Community College  Process Tech Program, Operator  Application Workshop  •      Texas A&M Univ. – Corpus Christi •      Texas A&M Univ. – Kingsville •  Tuloso-Midway ISD •     Coastal"
"Bend Workforce  Commission  Sunray, Texas  •    Amarillo College  •     Frank Phillips College  •       Dumas ISD  •    Amarillo Hispanic Chamber of  Commerce  •       Texas Veteran Commission •      West Texas A&M University Memphis, Tennessee  •         Goodwill Excel Centers Memphis  •       HBCUs – Lemoyne-Owen College,  Rust College, Jackson State  University •        Latino Memphis •        Alpha Omega Veteran Services  •         Soulsville Charter School •     Vision Prep. School •"
"Creative Life Prep. School •    Riverview Middle School New Orleans, Louisiana  •       River Parishes Community College  •     St. Charles Parish High School  Satellite Center  •     Destrehan High School •         Hahnville High School •         NextOp (Military/Veteran  Organization)  •      LA Workforce Commission  Veterans Alliance  Pembroke, Wales  •  Pembrokeshire College  Port Arthur, Texas  •    Lamar University  •     Lamar State College – Port Arthur  & Orange  •  Port Arthur ISD"
"Career & Technical  Center •    Bridge City ISD, Hamshire Fannett  ISD, Vidor ISD, Beaumont ISD  (Teacher Externship Programs) •        Nederland High School  •        100 Black Men of Greater  Beaumont  •   Texas Workforce Solutions –  Vocational Rehabilitation Services Valero has been a partner of excellence at Trinity University in San Antonio  since 1984, contributing nearly $1 million to expand scholarships, improve  facilities and strengthen business programming.  People Environmental,"
"Social and Governance Report  •  57 Valero Talent Pipeline  Creating a sustainable and robust talent pipeline is  foundational to identifying and developing future  leaders. We continue to enhance our recruitment  process to reach the most talented pool of candidates  possible. Our college and university partners, intern  program and Engineering Summit help us not only  identify top talent, but also create new opportunities for  such talent to emerge. Valero Intern Program  Through summer and"
"ongoing  opportunities and co-ops,  we extend internships to  high-performing college  students across a variety of business functions,  including engineering, accounting, commercial,  marketing, information systems, cybersecurity, legal,  communications and human resources.  In addition to providing an avenue for students to gain  valuable job experience and to learn about Valero’s  culture, our intern program allows Valero to attract and  retain the company’s future talent. Our intern program"
"includes:  •    Competitive pay.  •     Company-paid medical and dental benefits.  •    Company-matched 401(k) and Pension Plan.  •     Formal mentorship program.  •   Professional and personal development.  •       Relocation assistance.  •       Exposure to business operations, company  leadership and industry experts.  •   Social and community involvement.  •    Annual all-intern symposium at Valero  headquarters. In 2023, 36% of  engineering  interns were  female. For more than 25 years, the"
"Valero Intern  Program has become the primary recruiting  vehicle for our professional workforce. In 2023, we welcomed 290 interns to Valero  representing 43 colleges and universities.  The largest and most diverse class to  date included 39% female interns and 47%  interns representing racial/ethnic minority.  Approximately 86% of interns who received  full-time offers accepted and chose to begin  their careers at Valero. Valero’s Engineering Summit  The Freshman Engineering Summit is a four-"
"day  immersive experience for high-performing engineering  students from various socio-economic and education  backgrounds (including first-generation) who completed  their freshman year of college. Through workshops,  roundtable discussions, a hands-on refinery tour, a  volunteer event and exposure to Valero’s talented  workforce, the Summit introduces a new generation  of engineering talent to the world of energy and to our  company. As part of their experience, each student  receives a $1,500"
"scholarship and an invitation to apply to  Valero’s next summer intern program. Total People Investment  – $2.3 Billion in 202358 PAY EQUITY RATIO:  99%  Gender  100%  Minority  GLOBAL COMPENSATION:  $1.3 BILLION  Direct Compensation  $338 MILLION  Bonus Payments  $104 MILLION  Incentive Stock Awards BENEFITS AND PROGRAMS:  Physical Well-Being  $187 MILLION  Financial Well-Being  $336 MILLION  Emotional Well-Being  $102 MILLION MEDIAN-PAID EMPLOYEE:  $233,331  Total Compensation54  Top 10"
"compensation ranking in the S&P 50059 Valero supports living wage principles. EQUAL PAY COMMITMENT:  Valero is committed to equal pay opportunities  for all employees, regardless of protected  status.   58 58 1. Emotional Well-Being Valero offers wide-ranging benefits to address emotional  well-being, including:  Employee Assistance Program – Life Connections: Life  Connections is a confidential, free support service that  provides access to a wide range of employee and family  support,"
"including:  •     Wellness tips and reminders. •  Child care and elder care referral services and  suggestions.  •        Counseling services for family, relationships, stress, grief  and other concerns.  •    Support programs for mental health conditions, such as  insomnia, chronic pain and substance abuse.  Total Wellness and Rewards  Valero’s Total Wellness benefits and programs support our employees’  Emotional, Physical and Financial Well-Being and reflect our culture and  thoughtful"
"investment in our workforce.  Our Total Wellness mission is to create a work environment that fosters  employee well-being while educating them in healthy lifestyle and sound  financial choices. From hire to retire, this investment in our greatest asset delivers the ultimate return — a safe,  healthy and productive workforce committed to the success of our company. Our Approach:  •    Foster a wellness culture that provides meaningful resources for every employee and promotes access  regardless"
"of personal circumstances.  •   Provide competitive benefit offerings for every stage of life, from early career into retirement.  •    Thoughtfully consider programs and resources that address challenges  employees could face as they seek better overall health and well-being for  themselves and their families.  •     Provide financial education and security for employees’ long-term stability  as a complement to Valero’s fair and equitable compensation practices  and pay-for-performance"
"philosophy.  •      Provide adaptable policies and support that allow for individualized choice and that address the diverse needs  of a large workforce.  We continually evaluate our benefit offerings to support the best possible health and wellness outcomes  for our people and to help determine the most appropriate allocation of company resources. Through peer  benchmarking, employee surveys and exit interviews, we work to ensure program investments are competitive in  attracting and retaining"
"top talent. 90% of employees feel  that Valero is invested  in their health and  wellness. 55 Valero's Total Wellness program is designed  to help employees find balance and  wellness at work and in their home life. Similar assistance programs and resources are offered for our international employees in the United Kingdom and  Ireland, Canada and Mexico. In Peru, a certified social worker is employed to support the needs of our employees,  from personal well-being and rehabilitation to conflict"
"resolution/mediation, family counseling, student support  and research, among others.  People Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  59 Valero’s Ardmore Refinery hosted an on-site  Valero Family Day. Behavioral and Mental Health Benefits  In an effort to build greater awareness of available  mental health resources, we have added  initiatives and access points to help employees  meet their unique needs. This includes awareness  campaigns, virtual and in-person access to  wellness"
"experts, meditation resources, stress and  anxiety workshops, nutritional clinics and annual  wellness assessments. Other benefits supporting  behavioral health include:  •  Virtual program focused on cognitive  behavioral therapy (CBT).  •      Mobile app offering support for anxiety,  depression and stress.  •     Virtual therapy sessions through multiple  providers.  Additional services and workplace events  encourage habits that improve emotional health  and support better work-life balance."
"Examples in  the U.S. include:  •        Total Wellness Fairs to bring health and  wellness vendors and resources to employees. •        Get Outside Valero event encourages  families to foster mental and physical health.  •  Pills and Paper Purge event (partnership with  the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency) to de- clutter and de-stress.  •       Fitness challenges to grow physical/mental  wellness.  •        Virtual wellness incentive platform to  encourage physical activity and take  preventive"
"steps to maintain health.  •   Internal Total Wellness portal with resources.  •       Accessible videos encouraging proper form  and movement during physical exercise. Generous Vacation and Leave Programs Valero recognizes the importance  of providing the opportunity for rest,  recovery, recreation and personal  time to meet employee and family  health needs. Competitive paid leave  allowances provide short- and long-term support while  employees are away, encouraging greater emotional and"
"physical wellness upon return to work. Leave programs  include, but are not limited to:  •    Parental Leave Policy: In the U.S., our childbirth leave is  available on the date of hire and includes nine weeks  of paid leave. In addition, three weeks of paid parental  leave/bonding are offered for all new parents, including  adoption and surrogacy. In total, birth mothers are  given 12 weeks of paid leave. A package of helpful  resources and support links are sent to Valero parents  in advance of"
"the birth, including a summary of leave  provisions. For non-U.S. employees, paid parental leave  meets or exceeds legal requirements in those countries.  •     Family Illness Leave: U.S. employees are eligible for 10  days of paid leave to care for family members. For non- U.S. employees, paid family leave meets or exceeds  legal requirements of foreign countries.  •       Military Service Leave Beyond Minimum Standards  (U.S.): Valero offers differential pay for employees  called to active and"
"reserve duty. For long-term  assignments/deployment, Valero employees and their  families continue to be eligible to receive all company- sponsored health and welfare benefits.  •         Vacation: Competitive vacation schedules are offered  based on years of service and recognition of prior  relevant experience upon hire. $108 million  vacation and  paid leave in  2023. ‘Hello Baby’ and Family Gift Program: From the  time an employee provides notification about an  expected new arrival, through"
"their leave time  and transition back to work, new parents receive  continual support. Helpful resources, guidance  and gifts are provided to parents as they navigate  changes and welcome a new family member.  60 60 2. Physical Well-Being Providing the time and  resources our employees need  to be healthy is critical for  success inside and outside of  work. Nutrition, exercise and rest  are only part of the equation.  Being educated and motivated  to improve physical and mental wellness is"
"equally  important. In support, Valero provides customized  employee programs companywide, including:  Comprehensive healthcare plans – 96% of Eligible Employees Enrolled in  Medical Coverage in 2023 Company-paid benefits for Valero's largest employee  group include elective benefit options, such as Medical,  Prescription Drug, Dental, and Vision Insurance; Flexible  Spending Accounts; Health Savings Account; Life  Insurance; Legal Insurance; and Group Critical Illness.  The majority of full-"
"time U.S. employees receive  company contributions to cover the full cost of  coverage under most medical benefit options.  Referred to as “Valero Provided Dollars,” this investment  allows employees flexibility to fully customize benefit  coverage for specific individual and family needs,  while minimizing or eliminating employee healthcare  premiums. Outside the U.S., employees receive a  significant contribution toward the cost of healthcare  coverage in their respective countries. In the"
"majority  of cases, contributions cover 100% of the cost for  employees.  $187 million  invested in 2023  in the physical  health of our  employees. On-Site Employee Wellness Centers and  Family Wellness Center (U.S.)  The goal of Valero on-site wellness centers is to  provide convenient access to high-quality primary  care for acute, routine and preventive services for  employees and, at corporate headquarters, their  eligible dependents. At certain Valero locations, on-site  wellness centers"
"provide routine services, including:  •   Diagnostics and treatment of employee illnesses  and minor injuries.  •         Physician-led management of chronic conditions.  •      Annual vaccinations.  •         Allergy shots.  •       Smoking cessation.  •   Weight loss support and diabetes intervention. 97% of respondents agree Valero’s on-site  wellness centers are a valued benefit.60  Annual Wellness Assessments  Annual confidential  wellness assessments are  free to Valero employees  and"
"offered at a reduced  rate for spouses and  retirees. This valuable individualized assessment  creates a comprehensive picture of personal health  and a baseline to allow for more educated, proactive  health decisions and discussions with the individual  healthcare provider.  3,698 employee annual  wellness assessments  were completed  companywide in 2023. On-site wellness centers help employees prioritize  Total Wellness and address health questions  proactively. A family clinic in San Antonio"
"also  provides care for eligible dependents. Valero Texas City Refinery  People Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  61 Fitness Centers, Subsidies and  Online Resources  Equipped fitness centers  are available on-site at  most major U.S. locations,  including a full-time  fitness staff at company  headquarters.  Additionally, Total Wellness programs and  resources are designed to support the ongoing  physical health goals of our employees and to  provide easy access through in-person"
"and virtual  means.  Valero Child Care Center (or stipend  for childcare services)  The children of Valero employees are an important  extension of Team Valero. Parents have access  to state-of-the-art, licensed and accredited  childcare centers, either on-site or within the  employee’s local area. Back-up child care and  tutoring services are also available through a  Valero partnership.  Other Medical specialist consultations, on-site  mammograms, mother’s rooms or designated  areas and"
"nursing pods. 99% of employee  survey respondents  strongly believe  Valero’s corporate  Fitness Center is a  valued benefit.61  3. Financial Well-Being and Rewards Attracting and retaining the  best people in our industry  requires a layered and uniquely  personal approach to financial  stability. Valero’s compensation  and financial wellness strategy greatly supports these  objectives, providing motivation, rewards and investment  opportunities for an exceptional workforce.  Generous 401(k)"
"Match - 95% of Eligible U.S.  Employees Enrolled in 401(k) Plan in 2023  Valero is proud to provide an excellent retirement savings  plan that, if utilized to the fullest, helps provide significant  financial security for employees later in life. For the  majority of our U.S. employees, the available company  match under the primary savings plan is up to 7% of  eligible pay and vests immediately. Company-Sponsored Pension Plan  As an added layer of financial security, the majority of U.S."
"employees are automatically enrolled in an exceptional  pension plan after one year of service. Vesting reaches  100% after three years of service.  Annual Merit and Bonus Awards  The Annual Merit Award process adjusts eligible  employees’ salaries for market competitiveness,  performance and relativity to peers. Managers are able to  ensure equitable pay for all team members. Discretionary  Annual Bonus Awards recognize employees who  contribute to Valero’s success, and serve as a pathway to"
"review employee performance over the past year.  $336 million in  support of financial  security and  retirement in 2023. Wellness resources include an on-site  fitness center at many Valero locations,  and a fitness subsidy for employees at  U.S. sites without gyms. Valero Aurora Ethanol Plant  62 62 Valero Perks at Work  Perks at Work is a discount program that gives access  to exclusive savings on quality of life enhancements  and conveniences such as household items, travel,  electronics and"
"many more.  Employee Tuition Reimbursement  The Valero Educational  Assistance Program  supports employees’  continuing education  (college or specialized certifications) relevant to  professional development.  Customized Financial Education & Planning  Educational workshops  have been created to  assist in putting personal  financial goals within  reach. Employees have  regular opportunities to attend free financial education  webinars such as Valero’s Planning for Retirement and  Financial"
"Habits that Matter workshops.  Adoption Assistance  Adopting a child is a life-changing experience for the  child and his/her new family. Valero is proud to support  families by reimbursing a portion of adoption-related  expenses.  Valero Scholarship  Program for  Dependents  Each year, a selection of  outstanding children of  Valero employees receive  a Valero Scholarship, based on scholastic achievement,  community involvement and leadership qualities. Each  recipient receives $2,500 per year"
"for up to four years of  undergraduate studies.  Other  Retiree medical benefit (subsidized in certain cases);  health savings account contribution; short- and long- term disability; and financial hardship funds. More than $838,000  was awarded to  employees in 2023. Employees attended  more than 2,029 hours  of financial education in 2023.  Since 1981, Valero has  awarded more than  800 scholarships  totaling $6.9 million to  employee dependents. Developing Our Leaders  We are committed to"
"building a strong learning culture,  where all employees are supported in reaching their  full potential.  At the core of every successful Valero leader is a full  understanding of our business, our culture and the  people who drive our success. We develop our leaders  and team members to motivate, engage and support  an inclusive workforce that expands our talent pipeline  and reduces turnover.  We offer a comprehensive training and development  program for our employees in subjects such as"
"engineering and technical excellence, safety,  environmental, maintenance and machinery/ equipment repair, ethics, leadership and employee  performance. We also require all employees to  complete training on technical matters, such as  cybersecurity and information technology security,  and various compliance and corporate conduct  matters, including business ethics, conflicts of interest,  and anti-bribery and anti-corruption, among others.  Our employee development initiatives include"
"customized professional and technical curriculums,  efforts to engage our leadership in the employee’s  development process, and providing employee  performance discussions. We offer a robust virtual  training curriculum, which allows for greater availability  and access for employees located across our many  facilities and enables timely training. More than 705,000 hours of training and  more than 9,950 training classes offered to  employees in 2023.62  Valero Hartley Ethanol Plant Manager"
"People Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  63 Supervisor Toolkit – Designed to prepare our new supervisors  for their role, we provide a 12-month road map on day one of  promotion, which outlines information on developing essential  skills, building strong teams, ensuring an inclusive work  environment and understanding their leadership style.  Frontline & Beyond Frontline – Required program building  essential skills for managing and leading others includes a year- long cohort"
"learning experience with an executive leader coach.  LeaderTalks – Program supports experienced leaders with  unique opportunities to learn directly from executive leaders’ first- hand experiences and perspectives on essential leadership skills.  Refinery Supervisor Development – Customized curriculum  designed to reinforce expectations of field leaders to build strong  teams and drive operational excellence.  Other – Leadership transition guide; extraordinary leaders  program; and performance"
"management resources. Engineering Technical Excellence Program – Structured two- track program designed to enhance and sharpen the technical  skills of early career and experienced engineers.  Subject Matter Instructor (SMI) Development – Program  designed to cultivate Valero’s internal experts across the  organization and prepare them to deliver training sessions –  virtually or in person – on a wide range of department-specific or  professional topics.  Instructor Development – Individualized"
"development and  coaching of experts for preparation to facilitate courses.  Other – Engineering development virtual program; commercial  development program; and operations qualification and unit  specific courses.  Developing Team Valero – Instructor-led courses targeting  professional and technical topics.  Individualized Development – Behavioral assessment review to  understand individual strengths and weaknesses.  Other – Valero development library; compliance and regulatory  training; and"
"business acumen resources.  Training Programs  ALL-EMPLOYEE PROGRAMS / 36 programs in 2023  ROLE-SPECIFIC PROGRAMS  / 1,088 programs in 2023  LEADERSHIP PROGRAMS  / 68 programs in 2023 Valero Memphis Refinery Valero Three Rivers Refinery Valero San Antonio Headquarters  64 Governance and Risk Management Governance We view our stakeholders  as partners to whom we  seek to deliver operational  excellence, disciplined  management of capital  and long-term value on  a foundation of strong"
"governance and ethical  standards.  Full Board •         Risk management and oversight  are responsibilities of the full Board.  The full Board exercises its oversight  responsibilities directly and through its  committees. •        Valero's low-carbon fuels strategy is a  priority and focus for the full Board. In  fact, for the past three years Valero's low- carbon fuels strategy has been one of the  key topics of the Board's annual three- day strategic planning meeting with  management. Key"
"functions  and areas of  oversight and  responsibility  include  Valero’s: Risk Management and Oversight Structure Audit  Committee Human Resources  and Compensation  Committee Nominating and  Corporate Governance  Committee Sustainability  and Public Policy  Committee Key functions  and areas of  oversight and  responsibility  include: Key functions  and areas of  oversight and  responsibility  include: Key functions  and areas of  oversight and  responsibility  include:  Environmental, Social"
"and Governance Report  •  65 Governance • Risks and other matters related to our compensation and talent management programs,  policies and strategies, including Valero's benefit plans;  •      Management succession planning for Valero's CEO and other senior executives;  • Valero's initiatives and strategies in the areas of human capital management and  leadership development; and  •        Compliance with Valero's Stock Ownership and Retention Guidelines. •    Ensuring that the Board and its"
"committees have the necessary mix of knowledge, skills,  experience and other attributes;  •    Identifying and recommending qualified director nominees;  •    Developing and recommending a set of corporate governance principles applicable to  Valero;  •  The Board's and its committees' annual self-evaluation of performance;  •       Valero's new director orientation and director continuing education programs; and  •    Reviewing and acting on any related-party transactions. •       HSE matters;"
"• Sustainability and climate-related risks and opportunities;  •  Corporate responsibility and reputation management;  •  Social, community, and public policy strategies and initiatives;  •     Political issues, including political contributions and lobbying activities; and  •     Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements for the operations of the company. Management and  other employees  engage in day-to-day  risk identification and  management, and  promote safety, through:  •"
"Executing our risk  identification and  management  programs, plans and  systems, such as our  CTEMS, EERA and FMS;  •  Taking an  interdisciplinary  approach that  coordinates the  views of various  teams and subject  matter experts  across Valero, and  facilitates continual  communication on  risk-related matters;  and  •   Reporting to the  Board and its  committees, and  engaging with  stockholders and  stakeholders  throughout the year. Valero's Management / Employees •        Financial"
"statements and public financial information integrity;  •     Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, with a focus on those with the potential  to impact its financial statements or accounting policies; •       Policies and guidelines concerning financial risk exposures and the steps management has  taken to monitor and control such exposures; •        Global compliance and ethics program, and annual compliance plan; •     Independent auditor and internal audit function; and •"
"Initiatives and strategies with respect to cybersecurity and information technology (IT) risks. Please see next page for  Board of Director names  and committees.  66 Board of Directors Joe Gorder  Executive  Chairman,  Valero Energy  Corporation Fred M. Diaz  Retired President,  CEO and  Chairman of the  Board of Directors  of Mitsubishi  Motors North  America, Inc. Committee: Audit H. Paulett  Eberhart  Chair and CEO,  HMS Ventures  Committees:  Audit (Chair); and  Sustainability and  Public"
"Policy Marie A.  Ffolkes  Managing Partner,  GenNx360 Capital  Partners; former  CEO, TriMark USA,  LLC  Committee:  Nominating  and Corporate  Governance Kimberly S.  Greene  Board Chair, CEO  and President,  Georgia Power  Company Committees:  Nominating  and Corporate  Governance  (Chair); and  Sustainability and  Public Policy Deborah P.  Majoras  Retired Chief  Legal Officer and  Secretary, The  Procter & Gamble  Company Committees:  Sustainability  and Public Policy  (Chair); and"
"Nominating  and Corporate  Governance Director Skills and  Experience Gorder Wilkins Diaz Eberhart Ffolkes Greene Majoras Mullins Profusek Weisenburger Riggs SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE CEO/Leadership Sustainability/ Climate HSE Human Capital  Management Corporate  Governance Cybersecurity/ IT Finance and Accounting Global Business Government, Legal,  Regulatory and  Compliance Risk Management Energy Industry  Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  67 Governance Integrated and"
"Multidisciplinary Approach to Oversight  The challenges and opportunities presented by sustainability and climate-related  matters are particularly broad-ranging, complex and interrelated, and as a result  often overlap across multiple areas of respective responsibility of each of our Board  committees. In order to manage and oversee such matters, each of the Board’s  committees assists the full Board with oversight of certain sustainability and climate- related matters within its area of"
"respective responsibility and expertise. Public policy,  sustainability and climate-related matters are a particular focus of the Sustainability  and Public Policy Committee, and such matters have been discussed at every meeting  the committee has ever held. The committee also receives, at least annually, a report  on Valero’s HSE efforts and climate lobbying and political activities. Tailored Structure and Codification of Duties  The structure and composition of the Sustainability and Public"
"Policy Committee was  specifically tailored to enhance the Board’s oversight of HSE, public policy, sustainability  and climate-related matters, and its committee charter codifies its oversight and  responsibilities with respect to such matters. In order to provide knowledge and insight  from each of the Board’s committees, as well as its senior independent leadership, and  facilitate collaboration and coordination with the full Board and among the Board’s  other committees, the Sustainability"
"and Public Policy Committee is comprised of five  independent members, consisting of Ms. Majoras (as the committee’s current chair),  the chairs of each of the Board’s other committees, and Valero’s Lead Director. We also  encourage, but do not require, all directors to attend meetings of the Sustainability  and Public Policy Committee. This structure allows the HSE, public policy, sustainability  and climate-related matters discussed at Sustainability and Public Policy Committee  meetings to"
"permeate all of the meetings and discussions of the Board and its other  committees and facilitates effective oversight of such matters.  At the corporate level, an executive officer who holds the positions of Senior Vice  President, General Counsel and Secretary has oversight of certain functions actively  involved in climate-related management. This position reports directly to the CEO and  provides updates to all levels of management, including the Board. Eric D. Mullins  Chairman and  CEO,"
"Lime Rock  Resources Committee: Audit Robert A.  Profusek  Partner and  Practice Leader,  Global Mergers and  Acquisitions, Jones  Day; Valero Lead  Director Committees:  Human Resources  and Compensation;  and Sustainability  and Public Policy Lane Riggs Chief Executive  Officer and  President,  Valero Energy  Corporation Randall J.  Weisenburger  Managing  Member, Mile 26  Capital LLC; former  EVP and CFO,  Omnicom Group  Inc. Committee:  Human Resources  and Compensation Rayford  Wilkins, Jr."
"Retired CEO- Diversified  Businesses, AT&T  Inc. Committees:  Human Resources  and Compensation  (Chair); and  Sustainability and  Public Policy Board Oversight – HSE, Public Policy, Sustainability  and Climate 4 7 Men Women Women 36.4% Hispanic/  Latino White Black/African  American 1 7 3 Racial/Ethnic Diversity 36.4% 4 3 50s 60s 70s Average Age 62.9 yrs 4 * Age and tenure data as of 12/31/23.  Tenure is not rounded up. Directors  since 2016 6 new ≤4 5-9 10-12 ≥13 3 4 2 2 Years Tenure 11"
"Directors:* 6 New Directors Since 2016 9 Independent Directors 7 Directors represent gender  or racial/ethnic diversity  68 Comprehensive Liquid Fuels Strategy We are working to advance the future of energy with capital discipline, innovation and unmatched execution. We  support our commitment to stockholder returns with our comprehensive liquid fuels strategy that drives economic  growth projects and provides a viable path to reduce and displace GHG emissions. Unmatched Execution with a Proven"
"History of  Operational Excellence  •        The lowest cash operating cost among peer  group while maintaining top-quartile operating  performance.  •      Safe, reliable, environmentally responsible  operations have driven higher profitability and  lower volatility through multiple commodity  cycles.  •   Applying our liquid fuels manufacturing  expertise to optimize our integrated low-carbon  fuels businesses.  Demonstrated Commitment to Stockholders  •         Disciplined capital allocation"
"delivering peer- leading free cash flow yield and returns to  stockholders across margin cycles. •       Delivered on our annual payout ratio  commitment every year under current  management since 2014.       −Average payout ratio of 69% since 2014  (55% excluding 2020)   −Reduced our shares outstanding by over  36% since 2014 •       16% average annual Return on Invested  Capital (ROIC) since 2014. Operations  Capital Discipline Growth Through Innovation •    Refining growth projects focused on"
"operating  cost control, optimization and margin  improvement.  •   Leveraging our global liquid fuels platform to  expand our long-term competitive advantage  with investments in economic low-carbon  projects.  •       25% after-tax IRR hurdle rate for growth  projects. Alignment of Executive Pay with Company  Performance and Long-Term Stockholder Value  Creation •    Tight linkage of company performance and  executive pay.  •     Alignment of interests of executives and  stockholders.  •"
"Risk management and adoption of best  practices in executive pay.  •    Balance of compensation over short- and  long-term periods.  •  Retention of top executive talent. Earnings Growth Executive Compensation Linkage of Executive Compensation to HSE, Sustainability and Climate Annual Bonus Program - Valero’s annual bonus  program includes both HSE performance measures  and ESG efforts and improvements. Since 2022, the  Health, Safety and Environment sub-component  of the annual bonus program"
"was improved by  adjusting targets for certain metrics and through the  implementation of a severity/volume enhancer on  the Environmental Scorecard Incidents metric.  Long-Term Incentive (LTI) Program - A performance  share component was added to include ties between  executive compensation and our low-carbon fuels  strategy, including (i) progress towards the publicly  announced GHG emissions reduction/displacement  targets, and (ii) investment of growth capital  attributable to Valero into"
"low-carbon initiatives.  See non-GAAP disclosures beginning on page 80.  Governance Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  69 Business Ethics and Compliance Valero's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is reviewed and approved  by the Board and Valero’s executive management team. Our Code  provides guidance for our day-to-day work and the behavior expected  of us, as well as our legal and ethical responsibilities. The Code focuses on the following commitments:  Commitment to Each Other"
"•       Health, Safety and  Environment  •      Workplace Environment  •        Community and  Environmental Justice •  Human Rights  •         Data Privacy Commitment to Business Partners •  Conduct Guidelines for Business Partners  •     Gifts and Entertainment Commitment to Shareholders •    Business Records and  Internal Controls  •      Protecting Company  Assets  •   Information Security  •         Conflicts of Interest and  Corporate Opportunities  •   Insider Trading •"
"Communications Commitment to the Marketplace •  Anti-Bribery and  Anti-Corruption  •   Anti-Money Laundering  •        Antitrust, Fair Dealing and  Competition  •     International Trading •         Anti-Boycott •  Participating in Political  Activities In addition to our Chief  Compliance Officer, Valero’s  Audit Committee oversees the  company’s global compliance  function. Our Ethics Helpline is  a confidential external  helpline operated by a  trained third party. It is  available toll-"
"free, 24 hours  a day, seven days a week  and in local languages.  Reports are investigated  fairly and thoroughly. Do you have a compliance  question? Contact the  Compliance Department at  LegalCompliance@Valero.com  or 210-345-5800 Do you wish to remain  anonymous? Confidential  helpline available at  EthicsHelpline.Valero.com or  855-219-2495 within the U.S. &  Canada If calling from elsewhere,  use the numbers listed on  EthicsHelpline.Valero.com. More than 672,000 hours of employee"
"training were conducted in 2023 on various  health, safety and environment, regulatory, legal and other compliance-related  matters, including conduct and ethics, use of ethics helpline, anti-bribery, data privacy,  human rights and information security.   70 Supply Chain Management Valero's Conduct Guidelines for Business Partners describes the standards and expectations for Business Partners -  namely suppliers, vendors, contractors, consultants, distributors, agents, representatives and any"
"third parties or  individuals acting on behalf of the company. Applicable in all countries where Valero operates, the Conduct Guidelines  for Business Partners reflect Valero's expectations of high ethical standards and the unwavering requirement to act  with integrity, including in the following areas: •      Anti-Bribery/Anti-Corruption  •         Antitrust/Fair Dealing and  Competition  •      Conflicts of Interest  •        Corporate Recordkeeping  •      Data Privacy  •         Fair"
"Employment Practices  •    Gifts and Entertainment  •      Government Contracting and  Small Business Engagement  •        Health, Safety and Environment  •       Human Rights  •         Information Security and  Intellectual Property  •      Insider Trading  •      International Trade Regulations  •      Legal Compliance Vetting of Suppliers - Valero engages  third-party companies to manage  supply chain and contractor risks.  All business partners are expected  to participate in the third-"
"party  management systems and to  maintain a minimum grade based  on Valero's proprietary assessment  process and compliance with both  regulatory and Valero requirements.  Vendors undergo an initial screening  and are monitored on an ongoing  basis for risks related to health,  safety, environmental and quality  performance as well as supplier  selection, employee training and  qualifications, insurance coverage,  and financial strength and stability.  The systems also assess contractor  and"
"supplier risk management  policies and practices regarding  human rights and the environment,  and verify certifications, such as ISO  14001. Additionally, audits may be  conducted to ensure that suppliers  uphold all standards listed in Valero’s  Conduct Guidelines for Business  Partners. Valero and business partners working together on the SAF  project in Port Arthur, Texas  Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  71 Governance Visit our website at  www.valero.com > Investors >  ESG >"
"Governance Documents. •      Code of Business Conduct  and Ethics  •         Conduct Guidelines for  Business Partners  •    Corporate Governance  Guidelines  •     Code of Ethics for Senior  Financial Officers  •        Human Rights Policy  Statement  •       Stock Ownership and  Retention Guidelines for  Directors and Officers  •        Anti-Bribery and Anti- Corruption Policy  •     Environmental Justice Policy  Statement  •      Health, Safety and  Environmental Policy  Statement  •"
"Political Contributions,  Lobbying and Trade  Associations Policy •     Related Party Transactions  Policy  •   UK Tax Policy  •        Anti-Slavery and Human  Trafficking Policy Statement  •         Compensation Consultant  Disclosure Policy  •   Executive Compensation  Clawback Policy Governance  Policies Institutional Investor Magazine - For the eighth consecutive  year, Institutional Investor Magazine named Valero among its  “Most Honored Companies,”  based on results across several"
"categories of its 2024 All-America  Executive Team rankings. Out of  over 1,400 companies receiving  votes across 44 sectors, less  than 10% earned the “Most Honored” distinction. The investment  publication determined the rankings from votes of over 4,000  investors and research analysts who evaluated companies and  executives.  Valero placed Top 3 overall in the Integrated Oil sector for the  following:  • Best Company Board    • Best CEO      • Best CFO      • Best IR Program       • Best ESG"
"Program Additionally, Valero received 1st place overall in the Integrated  Oil sector for the following:     • Best IR Professional  • Best IR Team S&P Platts - Valero earned  the “Energy Transition Award  Downstream & Chemicals at the  25th Annual S&P Platts Global  Energy Awards, featuring finalists  from 32 countries across 21  categories. This marks the fourth  year since 2019 that Valero has  won an award from S&P Global  and the third year since 2019 it  has won in the Downstream &"
"Chemicals category. Select comments from the judges about Valero included:     • “Valero roared back as a clean standout in the  downstream category.  • “Valero possesses a broad spectrum of current  downstream successes. I trust them to be efficient.    • “They're the most focused company in this sector. Awards S&P Platts judges  highlighted Valero's SAF  project that will give the  Port Arthur plant the  optionality to upgrade  approximately 50% of  its current 470 million- gallon renewable"
"diesel  annual production  capacity to SAF. Institutional Investor  Magazine named Valero  among its Most Honored  Companies for 2024.  72 Our Responsiveness to Engagement As part of our engagement efforts, we proactively offer dialogue to stockholders and stakeholders regarding  different matters, such as executive compensation, ESG, sustainability, proxy proposals, climate-related risks  and opportunities, GHG emissions targets, environmental justice and community engagement efforts, human"
"capital management, and political and lobbying activities. The robust ESG/compensation engagement efforts we  undertook over the course of 2023 and into 2024 consisted of the following: Stakeholder Engagement Our engagement program offers proactive outreach and opportunities for stakeholders to communicate their  concerns and priorities to our management team. Additionally, the program undergoes a rigorous analysis, review  and assessment process to ensure continuous improvement.  Proactive"
"Ongoing engagement with stakeholders is important to us. For instance, throughout the year we  communicate with our stakeholders through a variety of means, including direct interface, investor  presentations, ESG presentations, our website, community outreach and the publications and  reports we issue. Consistent Dialogue  As part of our engagement efforts, our senior management team reaches out to our stakeholders  for dialogue concerning their priorities – which may include our corporate"
"strategy, environmental  initiatives, financial performance, capital allocation, sustainability, climate-related risks and  opportunities facing Valero, GHG emissions, human capital management, executive compensation  and/or corporate governance, among other relevant matters. We value our stakeholders’ views  and input.  Process: Review, Plan, Engage, and Analyze and Respond  Our engagement process follows a “review, plan, engage, and analyze and respond” cycle to build  relationships and create"
"meaningful interactions. Our engagements with stakeholders have been  constructive and have provided management and the Board with insights on issues and initiatives  that are important to our stakeholders. Additionally, we initiate formal outreach efforts throughout  the year. Assessment  Our engagement process is adjusted based on needs and business strategy. After each  engagement opportunity, we assess the input received and share it with our management team  and the Board, as appropriate."
"This constant communication with the management team and  the Board allows us to develop policies, practices and disclosures to meet the expectations of our  stakeholders.  Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  73 Governance Political Engagement Valero believes that constructive participation  in the political process is an important means  of enhancing stockholder value and promoting  good corporate citizenship. Board Oversight — The CEO and the General  Counsel review and approve"
"recommendations  by Valero’s government affairs team on  political contributions and lobbying activities.  Additionally, the Sustainability and Public Policy  Committee is responsible for assisting the Board  with oversight of Valero's political contributions  and lobbying activities and receives, at  least once annually, a formal report from  management on these activities. Policy Advocacy — As part of our engagement,  we may advocate directly or with trade  associations on issues that affect"
"our business  and the energy industry. Our trade association  participation focuses on being an active  member of business communities where  we work and live, learning and sharing best  practices from safety and environmental to  labor and technologies, as well as promoting  dialogue and advocacy for positions that are in  the best interest of our business.  Climate-lobbying Alignment Analysis —  We conducted a review of climate lobbying  activities and concluded that certain trade"
"associations with lobbying activities were  substantially aligned with, or were in the process  of aligning with, Valero’s vision of providing  affordable transportation fuels, while reducing  GHG emissions. Political Participation — Valero complies  with all applicable laws and regulations when  considering participation in the political process  with corporate contributions.  Our political participation webpage provides  comprehensive and updated political  disclosures:  www.valero.com >"
"Investors > ESG > Political  Engagement > Political Participation. •   Offering dialogue to our 100 largest  stockholders. •   Engaging with stockholders that held  approximately 50% of our outstanding shares  of common stock.63 •         Holding at least 67 different meetings with  stockholders and proxy advisory firms, many of  which included the participation of members  of our senior leadership and/or our Board. In response to stockholder and stakeholder  feedback, the following disclosures"
"and/or  changes were recently made: •      Relative TSR performance target for Valero’s  performance shares set above the median  of the peer group for grants of performance  shares.  •  A cap on overall performance share payouts  at 100% of target, when Valero’s TSR over the  performance period is negative.  •   Stock Ownership and Retention Guidelines were  enhanced by increasing the required value  of Valero Common Stock owned by senior  executives as a multiple of salary by 50% above"
"previous levels.64  •        Use of Product GHG emissions Intensity  disclosure.  •  Value chain analysis.  •        TCFD Report (IEA Net Zero by 2050).  •  2023 Environmental Justice Audit Report and  Racial Equity Assessment. •        Independent third-party limited assurance of  company-wide GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and  2), company-wide life cycle GHG emissions  displacements from low-carbon fuels,  company-wide Use of Product GHG emissions  Intensity disclosures and the validation of our"
"2035 GHG emissions target. •       2050 GHG reduction/displacement ambition  covering Scopes 1, 2, 3, and 4. •     Revised Executive Compensation Clawback  Policy that goes beyond the minimum  requirements of the SEC and the New York  Stock Exchange.  74 Cybersecurity We take an enterprise approach to information security  risk management and governance. Our information  security program and framework comprise processes,  policies, practices, systems and technologies that are  designed to"
"identify, assess, prioritize, manage and  monitor risks to our information systems, including  risks from cybersecurity threats and events and  risks associated with the use of third-party service  providers. Our established recovery approach is designed  to provide for the ready availability and use of our  business-critical processes in the event of any  downtime, disaster or outages. We also seek to identify  and mitigate the risks associated with the use of  third-party service providers"
"through the review of  their security programs prior to our engagement.  Additionally, our control environment and internal  audit process bring a systematic, disciplined approach  to evaluate our risk management, control and  governance processes concerning cybersecurity and  our information security framework. We have a cybersecurity Incident Response Plan  (IRP) that sets forth a process to obtain information,  coordinate activities, assess results and communicate  applicable developments to"
"our employees, law  enforcement, other external parties and agencies  and our Board. The IRP includes the following major  components: preparation, detection and analysis,  containment, eradication, notification, recovery,  reporting and lessons learned. Specific incident  response playbooks have also been prepared for data  breaches, malware, unauthorized remote access and  ransomware, which include applicable legal protocols.  We have also retained certain third-party experts to  assist us"
"with various aspects of incident assessment  and response in the event those services become  necessary or useful. Typically, we:  1 Perform periodic tabletop exercises with a  company-wide cross-functional team that  is facilitated by a third-party expert and  is intended to simulate a real-life security  incident.  Conduct penetration testing as needed and  annually conduct Payment Card Industry Data  Security Standard testing and firewall reviews,  and have periodically engaged a third-party"
"expert to help therewith.  Hold annual cybersecurity awareness  trainings.  Periodically engage a third-party expert to  conduct a review of our information security  framework, which helps to identify existing and  emerging risks, and mitigate against such risks.  These internal efforts and external third-party reviews  also support our ability to regularly assess our  information security program and framework against  emerging risks, market and industry developments  and provide opportunities"
"to make adjustments or  enhancements when deemed prudent or necessary.  3 2 4 74 To date, there have been no cybersecurity  incidents that have materially affected us,  or that are reasonably likely to materially  affect us, including our business strategy,  financial condition or results of operations.  Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  75 Governance Our Board’s Role in  Cybersecurity Oversight Oversight of risk management,  including with respect to risks  from cybersecurity"
"threats, is  the responsibility of our Board,  which exercises its oversight  responsibilities both directly and  through its committees. The Audit  Committee of our Board has formal  oversight responsibilities in its  charter concerning initiatives and  strategies respecting cybersecurity  and information technology risks.  At least once annually, the heads of  our information services and internal  audit teams provide a report to the  Audit Committee on cybersecurity  and information"
"technology risks,  as well as our information security  operations, structure, framework,  various cybersecurity and information  technology metrics, our cybersecurity  and information security management  and improvement efforts, future  projects, and our governance and  assessments related to cybersecurity  and information technology. The  chair of the Audit Committee reports  to the Board a summary of the  information presented by the heads of  our information services and internal  audit"
"teams during their cybersecurity  update. Periodically, the Board also  receives reports on such matters  directly. As noted above, the IRP also  contains notification procedures to the  Board. Management’s Role in Assessment and  Management of Material Risks from  Cybersecurity Threats We have an Information Security Committee (Infosec Committee)  consisting of refining, renewable diesel, ethanol, logistics and  information services personnel that meets weekly to evaluate third- party exchange"
"of data and collaborate on strategy for dealing with  information security risks and other related matters. The Infosec  Committee reports to our Information Security Oversight Committee  (Infosec Oversight Committee) and our Executive Steering Committee  on cybersecurity (Executive Steering Committee). Our Infosec Oversight  Committee consists of information services, refining and internal audit  personnel and meets quarterly to discuss network threats and the  overall security landscape. Our"
"Executive Steering Committee consists  of management within our information services, internal audit, refining,  renewable diesel, ethanol, legal and logistics teams, and meets twice  per year to review and discuss information security metrics and results  of security assessments, among other items. Key members of the  Infosec Oversight Committee and the Executive Steering Committee  provide a report to the Audit Committee of the Board as discussed  above. Collectively, the  members of our"
"Infosec Committee,  Infosec Oversight  Committee and  Executive Steering  Committee have  decades of experience within the information technology and/or  cybersecurity areas. On a monthly basis, our Vice President, Information  Services & Technology provides executive management with an  Information Security Scorecard, which includes any cybersecurity  events that have occurred. If a cybersecurity incident is declared  under the IRP, we will evaluate whether such incident might have  a material"
"adverse impact on our business, financial condition,  results of operations or reputation, among other considerations, and  communicate that discussion to executive management, who will  then determine if escalation to the Board is warranted and if further  disclosure is required to the SEC and/or other government agencies. Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  75 Our information services team is led by  our Vice President Information Services  & Technology, who also chairs the"
"Infosec Oversight Committee, and has  approximately 25 years of experience in  the information technology industry.  76 76 SASB Report Topic Accounting Metric Code 2023 Valero Greenhouse  Gas Emissions Gross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage covered  under emissions-limiting regulations EM-RM-110a.1 24.9 million metric tons CO2e 100% Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy  or plan to manage Scope 1 emissions, emissions  reduction targets, and an analysis of performance  against those"
"targets EM-RM-110a.2 Valero's performance exceeded the company's short-term target  to reduce/displace the equivalent to 63% of the tonnage from its  global refinery GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) by 2025. Valero is on  track to reduce/displace the equivalent to 100% of the tonnage from  its global refinery GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) by 2035 through  Board-approved projects and CCS projects under development. Air Quality Air emissions of the following pollutants: (1) NOx  (excluding N2O),"
"(2) SOx, (3) particulate matter (PM10),  (4) H2S, and (5) volatile organic compounds (VOCs) EM-RM-120a.1 (1) NOx: 9,100 metric tons; (2) SOx: 7,400 metric tons; (3) PM10: 2,200  metric tons; (4) H2S: De minimis; (5) VOCs: 7,000 metric tons Number of refineries in or near areas of dense  population EM-RM-120a.2 11 Water  Management (1) Total fresh water withdrawn, (2) percentage  recycled, (3) percentage in regions with High or  Extremely High Baseline Water Stress EM-RM-140a.1 (1) 187 million"
"m3; (2) 1,671%; (3) 11.5%  Number of incidents of non-compliance associated  with water quality permits, standards, and regulations EM-RM-140a.2 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 3 (page 35) Hazardous  Materials  Management (1) Amount of hazardous waste generated, (2) percentage recycled EM-RM-150a.1 (1) 30,300 metric tons; (2) hazardous waste recycling without  incineration: 35.8%; hazardous waste recycling with incineration:  49.4% (1) Number of underground storage tanks (USTs), (2) number"
"of UST releases requiring cleanup, and  (3) percentage in states with UST financial assurance  funds EM-RM-150a.2 (1) 6; (2) 0; (3) 0 Workforce Health & Safety (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR), (2) fatality  rate, and (3) near miss frequency rate (NMFR) for (a)  full-time employees and (b) contract employees EM-RM-320a.1 (1)(a) Global refining TRIR Employee: 0.40; (1)(b) Global refining TRIR  Contractor: 0.24; (2)(a) Global refining Fatality Rate Employee: 0.00;  (2)(b) Global refining"
"Fatality Rate Contractor: 0.00   Discussion of management systems used to integrate  a culture of safety EM-RM-320a.2 ESG Report (pages 32 to 41) Management  of the Legal  & Regulatory  Environment Discussion of corporate positions related to  government regulations and/or policy proposals that  address environmental and social factors affecting  the industry EM-RM-530a.1 2022 TCFD Report 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Item 1A (pages 18-32) Critical  Incident Risk  Management Process Safety"
"Event (PSE) rates for Loss of Primary  Containment (LOPC) of greater consequence (Tier 1)  and lesser consequence (Tier 2) EM-RM-540a.1 Tier 1 process safety: 0.05  Tier 2 process safety: 0.20   Activity Metric Refining throughput of crude oil and other feedstocks EM-RM-000.A 1,087.33 million barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) Refining operating capacity EM-RM-000.B 3.16 million barrels per calendar day (MBPD) This report aligns our performance data with the recommendations of the  Sustainability"
"Accounting Standards Board (SASB) framework in the Oil & Gas –  Refining & Marketing industry standard.  Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  77 Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  77 Due to lack of data, relevancy in our business or competitive nature, as  applicable, we have opted for not disclosing the following topics: •    Product Specifications & Clean Fuel Blends, Percentage of  Renewable Volume Obligation (RVO) met through: (1) production  of renewable fuels and"
"(2) purchase of “separated” renewable  identification numbers (RIN), code EM-RM-410a.1. •      Product Specification & Clean Fuel Blends, total addressable  market and share of market for advanced biofuels and associated  infrastructure, code EM-RM-410a.2. •     Pricing Integrity & Transparency, code EM-RM-520a.1. •  Critical Incident Risk Management - Challenges to Safety Systems  indicator rate (Tier 3), code EM-RM-540a.2. •         Critical Incident Risk Management - Discussion of measurement"
"of Operating Discipline and Management System Performance  through Tier 4 Indicators, code EM-RM-540a.3. Greenhouse Gas Emissions EM-RM-110a.1: •        Valero's refining reportable segment (see our 2023 Annual Report on  Form 10-K, pages 6-10), includes the operations of our 15 petroleum  refineries, the associated activities to market our refined petroleum  products and the logistics assets that support those operations  (refining logistics assets). The methodology we use to calculate and"
"disclose direct GHG emissions (also known as Scope 1) is disclosed in  the Methodology section of this report. •        In 2023, the direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) from the logistics assets  that support the refining segment are de minimis and account for  less than 0.3% of the refining reportable segment. •   In 2023, the direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) related to our ethanol  and renewable diesel segments of 2.3 million metric tons CO2e  are excluded in this disclosure, as they are not"
"applicable to the  SASB framework in the Oil & Gas - Refining and Marketing industry  standard. •   Percentage of global refinery direct GHG emissions (refinery Scope  1) covered under an emission limiting regulation that is intended to  directly reduce GHG emissions, including the California Cap-and- Trade Program, the United Kingdom Emissions Trading Scheme,  Quebec Cap-and-Trade System, and the U.S. federal New Source  Review (NSR) permitting program for greenhouse gases. EM-RM-110a.2: •"
"Base year (2011) includes: •    Base year refining Scope 1 emissions includes direct emissions  from the 15 refineries in our current portfolio. Sales, acquisitions  and closures were accounted for following SASB guidelines in the  calculation. •  Base year excludes Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions related to the  ethanol and renewable diesel segments.  •       The methodology we use to calculate Base year refining Scopes  1 and 2 GHG emissions are disclosed in the GHG Emissions  Methodologies (page"
"21) of this ESG Report •   Actual Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions: •  The methodology we use to calculate and disclose refining  Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions are disclosed in the GHG Emissions  Methodologies (page 21) of this ESG Report. We include the  market-based approach when disclosing Scope 2 GHG emissions  for actual purposes. •     Expected Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions: •        Refining Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions in future years and  expected reductions against the base year are"
"estimated using  a combination of measured and estimated emissions data,  including the anticipated GHG emissions reductions derived from  operational improvements (Scope 1) and energy suppliers (Scope  2). •       Target years 2025 and 2035 and Performance to Date: •   Valero's performance exceeded the company's short-term target  to reduce/displace the equivalent to 63% of the tonnage from its  global refinery GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) by 2025. Valero is  on track to reduce/displace the"
"equivalent to 100% of the tonnage  from its global refinery GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) by 2035  through Board-approved projects and CCS projects under  development. •  The initiatives included in the 2035 target are: (1) the absolute  expected reduction of refining Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions  (against 2011 base year); (2) the displacements resulting from the  substitution of petroleum gasoline, diesel, naphtha and jet fuel  with the production of, blending of and credits from low-carbon"
"fuels. The calculation of displacements is disclosed in the GHG  Emissions Methodologies (page 21) of this ESG Report; and (3)  the expected reductions of carbon emissions using CCS projects  under development •      Copies of independent limited assurance verifications can be found  our website at www.valero.com > Investors > ESG > Other Reports. All  calculations were found to be science-based and in conformity with  acceptable engineering practices. Limited assurance verifications  include"
"(1) company-wide 2023 GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2),  including refining, renewable diesel, and ethanol; (2) company-wide  2023 GHG emissions reductions achieved with our renewable diesel  and ethanol production, as well as the blending of and credits from  low-carbon fuels; (3) company-wide 2023 GHG emissions intensity  of the use of our products per barrel and per unit of energy; and (4)  the validation of our 2035 GHG emissions target. Air Quality EM-RM-120a.2: global refineries located in"
"or near areas of dense  population, which are defined as urbanized areas with a population  greater than 50,000. Water Management EM-RM-140a.1: (1) Total fresh water withdrawn by refining operations  (fresh water with less than 1000 parts per million of dissolved solids); (2)  water recycled divided by the volume of fresh water withdrawn. Water  reused multiple times is counted as recycled each time it is recycled  and reused; (3) fresh water withdrawn in locations with high (40-80%)  or"
"extremely high (>80%) baseline water stress as a percentage of the  total refinery fresh water withdrawn. EM-RM-140a.2: In measuring the number of instances of non- compliance in any calendar year that resulted in formal enforcement  actions we look to the views of the SEC and define such number to be  the amount of environmental proceedings which occurred during that  calendar year that are (i) based on non-compliance with water quality  permits, standards or regulations and (ii) required to be"
"disclosed  pursuant to Regulation S-K 103 (applying the lowest numerical  disclosure threshold in effect at the time). Please see Valero’s Quarterly  Reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal year 2023 and 2023 Annual Report  on Form 10-K. Hazardous Materials Management EM-RM-150a.1: •  Hazardous waste amounts based on calculated dehydrated  hazardous constituents from wastewater disposed in underground  injection controls at our McKee refinery. EM-RM-150a.2: •       Valero currently has 6 operating"
"refining USTs none of which had any  known releases or reimbursement fund claims during the reporting  period. Valero also owns 20 retail USTs that are independently  operated by third parties. While Valero does not operate those  USTs, Valero is not aware of any releases or reimbursement fund  claims related to these USTs during the reporting period. Valero  also brands independently owned and operated service stations  that may have USTs but Valero is not involved in the operation or"
"remediation obligations of such USTs. Finally, Valero has, in certain  circumstances, assumed or retained liability for legacy service  stations sites, which may have remedial obligations but any related  USTs remaining at those sites are owned and operated by a third  party who is responsible for their operation. Workforce Health & Safety EM-RM-320a.1: (1)(a)/(b) global refining employee and contractor total  recordable incident rate (TRIR), which includes recordable injuries per  200,000"
"working hours, as defined by the U.S. Department of Labor’s  Occupational Safety and Health Administration; (2)(a)/(b) fatality  rate for work-related fatalities for global refining employees and  contractors; (3) NMFR data is not available. Critical Incident Risk Management EM-RM-540a.1: global refining Tier 1 process safety event (PSE) rates  and Tier 2 PSE rates as defined by the API RP-754. Activity Metric EM-RM-000.A and EM-RM-000.B: See Valero’s 2023 Annual Report on  Form 10-K, page 50"
"and page 7, respectively. Footnotes for SASB Data (a) The performance data presented is based on the company’s  interpretation and judgment of the SASB framework in the Oil & Gas  – Refining & Marketing industry standard. References to specific SASB  Code numbers do not indicate the application of any or all definitions,  metrics, measurements, standards or approaches set forth in the SASB  framework. (b) SASB standards are not intended to, and cannot, replace any legal  or regulatory"
"requirements that may be applicable to the company’s  operations.  78 78 1  For details on Valero's 2025 and 2035 GHG emissions targets see  pages 19, 21 and 77 (SASB Code EM-RM-110a.2). 2  Low-carbon fuels reduce life cycle GHG emissions. For renewable  diesel, life cycle GHG emissions reductions depend on the life  cycle analysis methodology or pathway used, carbon intensity of  the feedstocks, and energy intensity in the supply chain, such as  feedstock gathering mileage or distribution"
"mileage of finished  product. Renewable diesel's life cycle analysis carbon intensity was  calculated using methodologies approved by the jurisdictions where  renewable diesel was sold and verified by third parties. Our renewable  diesel can result in up to 80% lower life cycle GHG emissions,  compared with traditional diesel. In the case of corn ethanol, life  cycle GHG emissions reductions could be impacted by the type of  feedstocks used, the energy intensity in the supply chain or whether"
"carbon capture and storage is utilized. Ethanol's life cycle analysis  carbon intensity was sourced from the Argonne National Laboratory  GREET model. When compared with the benchmark carbon intensity  of gasoline presented in this model, our ethanol can result in at least  30% lower life cycle GHG emissions. 3  Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating  activities less capital expenditures of VLO and DGD, deferred  turnaround and catalyst cost expenditures, investments in"
"joint  ventures, and changes in current assets and liabilities. Average free  cash flow reflects 2012 through the most recent annual filing. EBITDA  is net income (loss) before depreciation and amortization expense,  “interest and debt expense, net of capitalized interest”, income tax  expense (benefit), and income (loss) from discontinued operations.  Refining peer group includes PSX, MPC, DINO, and PBF. See page 80 for  non-GAAP disclosures. 4  Third-party scenarios and other third-party"
"reports or data  discussed in these reports reflect the modeling, beliefs, assumptions  and outputs of their respective authors, not Valero, and their use,  reference to, or inclusion herein is not an endorsement by Valero of  their underlying assumptions, likelihood or probability. Any reference  to Valero's support of, alignment with, work with, or collaboration with  a third-party organization within this document does not constitute  or imply an endorsement by Valero of any or all of the"
"positions or  activities of such organization. 5  Intergovernmental Panel of Climate Change (IPCC) (2022), Climate  Change 2022: Mitigation of Climate Change. Contribution of Working  Group III to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental  Panel on Climate Change [P.R. Shukla, J. Skea, R. Slade, A. Al  Khourdajie, R. van Diemen, D. McCollum, M. Pathak, S. Some, P. Vyas,  R. Fradera, M. Belkacemi, A. Hasija, G. Lisboa, S. Luz, J. Malley, (eds.)].  Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,"
"UK and New York, NY, USA. doi:  10.1017/9781009157926. 6  International Energy Agency (IEA) (2022), World Energy Outlook  2022, IEA, Paris https://www.iea.org/reports/world-energy- outlook-2022, License: CC BY 4.0 (report); CC BY NC SA 4.0 (Annex A). 7  The COP28 agreement, available at: https://unfccc.int/sites/ default/files/resource/cma2023_L17_adv.pdf at paragraph 28. 8  See https://unric.org/en/climate-highlights-of-cop28/ and https://"
"unfccc.int/sites/default/files/resource/cma2023_L17_adv.pdf at  paragraph 29. 9  The U.S. Department of Energy’s Pathways to Commercial Liftoff:  Chemicals & Refining, available at: https://liftoff.energy.gov/wp- content/uploads/2023/09/20230921-Pathways-to-Commercial- Liftoff-Chemicals-Refining.pdf. 10  Consumer Reports, How Much Do Cold Temperatures Affect  an Electric Vehicle’s Driving Range? (January 2024): https://www. consumerreports.org/cars/hybrids-evs/how-much-do-cold- temperatures-"
"affect-an-evs-driving-range-a5751769461/. 11  Consumer Reports, CR Tests Show Electric Car Range Can Fall  Far Short of Claims, January 2024: https://www.consumerreports. org/cars/hybrids-evs/how-temperature-affects-electric-vehicle- range-a4873569949/. Notes 12  EV charging in cold temperatures could pose challenges  for drivers, Idaho National Laboratory, June 2020:https://inl. govintegrated-energy/electric-vehicles/. 13  ASTM D7566 -21, Standard Specification for Aviation Turbine  Fuel"
"Containing Synthesized Hydrocarbons, approved July 1, 2021,  published July 2021. 14  EV's average carbon intensity in the U.S. is calculated using the  U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable  Energy, Vehicle Technologies Office, FOTW #1208, Oct 18, 2021; and  other EV's life cycle analysis calculations conducted internally by  Valero. 15  Is it starch or cellulose? National Renewable Energy Laboratory  (NREL) offers answers that could unlock incentives for making"
"cellulosic ethanol (June 16, 2021) https://www.energy.gov/eere/ bioenergy/articles/it-starch-or-cellulose-nrel-offers-answers-could- unlock-incentives-making. 16  See https://www.darlingii.com/media for details on restaurants  that provide used cooking oil.  17  California Air Resources Board, September 28, 2023, Then vs Now –  Fossil Fuels Used in CA, slide 20. https://ww2.arb.ca.gov/sites/default/ files/barcu/board/books/2023/092823/23-8-1pres.pdf. 18  See LCFS Pathway Certified Carbon"
"Intensities: https://ww2.arb. ca.gov/resources/documents/lcfs-pathway-certified-carbon- intensities. 19  Source: U.S. Department of Energy, agency websites, industry  consultants and Valero estimates. 20  EPA Summary table of Lifecycle Greenhouse Gas Emissions  for Select Pathways (pdf), https://www.epa.gov/sites/default/ files/2016-07/documents/select-ghg-results-table-v1.pdf 21  See Detailed Analysis for Indirect Land Use Change from the 2015  LCFS re-adoption, p. I-25."
"https://ww2.arb.ca.gov/sites/default/files/ classic/fuels/lcfs/iluc_assessment/iluc_analysis.pdf 22  EPA “Summary Lifecycle Analysis Greenhouse Gas Results for the  U.S. Renewable Fuels Standard Program” (May 2023), disaggregated  GHG emissions for corn starch ethanol (dry mill, natural gas, 2022  average) and soybean oil transesterified biodiesel. 23  CARB “Current Fuel Pathways” (July 2, 2024), average of current  (non-retired) certified CIs for corn ethanol and soybean oil renewable  diesel."
"24  ECCC “Clean Fuel Regulations – Credit Market Data Report” (June  2024), average approved CIs for ethanol and hydrogenation-derived  renewable diesel. 25  ECCC “Fuel Life Cycle Assessment Model Methodology” (June  2024). Indirect land use change is “excluded from the Model Database  due to … [its] negligible contribution or limitations such as lack of data,  methods or high uncertainty.” (Section 2.3.1) 26  Argonne National Laboratory “Development of R&D GREET 2023  Rev1 to Estimate"
"Greenhouse Gas Emissions of Sustainable Aviation  Fuels for 40B Provision of the Inflation Reduction Act” (April 2024), LCA  results using default parameters for corn ATJ-E and soybean HEFA  (Table 1). 27  Treasury Notice 2024-37, “Sustainable Aviation Fuel Credit;  Lifecycle Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Percentage and  Certification of Requirements Related to the Clean Air Act; Climate  Smart Agriculture; Safe Harbors.” Safe harbor for Climate Smart  Agriculture (CSA) CI reduction of 10"
"gCO2e/MJ when using CSA corn  feedstock and 5 gCO2e/MJ when using CSA soybean feedstock  (Section 4). 28  ICAO “CORSIA Default Life Cycle Emissions Values for CORSIA  Eligible Fuels” (June 2022), default pathways for ETJ-SAF produced  from U.S. corn grain and HEFA-SAF produced from U.S. soybean oil.  Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  79 Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  79 29  Heller, Marc, “Fight grows over converting farmland to solar fields,”  GREENWIRE, June 3,"
"2024. 30   Sources include country or entity regulatory websites. In the  case of CORSIA, SAF is not mandated under CORSIA, but it reduces an  airline’s offset obligation.  31  Meigs, James B. (May 2024). Biden’s Electric-Vehicle Hustle.  Commentary. https://www.commentary.org/articles/james-meigs/ bidens-electric-vehicle-hustle/. 32  McKinsey & Company, MCFM Mobility Consumer Insights, Annual  MCFM Mobility Consumer Survey 2024, dated February 2024, global N  = 36,954 (“MCFM Mobility Consumer"
"Insights”). 33  National Renewable Energy Laboratory, June 2023, The 2030  National Charging Network: Estimating U.S. Light-Duty Demand for  Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure. 34  U.S. Light-Duty Vehicle (LDV) Life Cycle Emissions study conducted  by Southwest Research Institute – “Life Cycle Analysis Report” (2022)  was based on simulations performed using the GREET life cycle  analysis tool. LDV with 12-year life and 160,000 miles travel, renewable  diesel GHG emissions are based on"
"100% waste oil based renewable  diesel blend, electricity based on 2019 EIA average mix, and no  battery replacement for 300 mile range electric vehicle. Vehicle  class mix of 30% sedans, 20% crossovers, and 50% pickup/SUV trucks.  Embedded GHG emissions captures the GHG emissions involved in  the manufacturing, assembly, and production of the vehicle as well as  maintenance items over the lifetime of the vehicle i.e. battery, fluids,  ADR (assembly, disposal, and recycling), and components."
"U.S. Heavy- Duty Long-Haul Vehicle (HDV) Life Cycle Emissions study conducted  by Southwest Research Institute – “Life Cycle Analysis Report” (2022).  Class 8 heavy-duty truck with a 1,000,000-mile (~15 years) lifetime,  electric truck with a 500-mile battery range, electricity based on 2019  EIA average mix, one battery replacement, and diesel engine running  on 100% waste oil based renewable diesel. Embedded GHG emissions  capture the GHG emissions involved in the manufacturing, assembly  and"
"production of the vehicle as well as maintenance items over the  lifetime of the vehicle such as battery, fluids, ADR (assembly, disposal  and recycling), and components. 35  Jenkins Jr., H., July 18, 2023, Of EVs and Heat Waves. The Wall Street  Journal. 36  IEA (2024), Global Critical Minerals Outlook 2024, pages 6, 7, 30, IEA,  Paris.  Notes: Li = lithium; Ni = nickel; Co = cobalt; Gr = graphite; DRC =  Democratic Republic of the Congo. Geographical breakdown refers  to the country where the"
"production occurs. Mining is based on  production data. Material processing is based on refining production  data. Cell component production is based on cathode and anode  material production capacity data. Battery cells are based on  battery cell production capacity data. EVs is based on electric cars  production data. For all minerals mining and refining shows total  production not only that used in EVs. Graphite refining refers to  spherical graphite production only. IEA analysis based on EV"
"Volumes; Benchmark Mineral Intelligence;  BloombergNEF. 37  Business & Human Rights Resource Centre (July 2023), Unpacking  clean energy: Human rights impacts of Chinese overseas investment  in transition minerals. 38  IEA (2021), The Role of Critical Minerals in Clean Energy Transitions,  IEA, Paris. 39  See https://www.thetwohundred.org/. The Two Hundred is a civil  rights organization committed to addressing the racial wealth gap in  California through home ownership and home building. 40 "
"See MCFM Mobility Consumer Insights. 41  Pew Research Center, June 2023, Majorities of Americans Prioritize  Renewable Energy, Back Steps to Address Climate Change. 42  See GHG Emissions Methodologies on page 21 for details on all  calculations featured in this section. 43  Our current refining portfolio was consolidated in 2011. Energy  intensity increased in 2020 due to demand-related throughput  reductions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.  44  Based on EPA's WaterSense average U.S. household"
"consumption.  45  United States Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and  Health Administration (OSHA). 46  Cal/OSHA is a program administered by the State of California  Department of Industrial Relations. 47  Refining industry employees (U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, year  2022).   48  AFFFs stands for aqueous film-forming foams, which contain per-  and poly-fluoroalkyl substances (PFAS).  49  Global refining Tier 1 process safety event (PSE) rate and Tier 2 PSE  rate as defined within"
"API Recommended Practice 754. 50  API, the governing body for industry PS metrics, now reports  industry-wide PSE data on five-year averages. 51  The Environmental Justice Audit Report can be found on our website  at Valero.com > Investors > ESG > Reports and Presentations. 52  Includes funds donated by Valero and the Valero Energy  Foundation. 53  See 2023 Valero Form 10-K, page 14. 54  See 2024 Valero Proxy Statement, page 85. 55  Responses were given by employees in the Annual Benefits"
"Statement Survey (2022). 56  Unless otherwise noted, workforce data reflects Valero’s global  population as of December 31, 2023. 57  Average includes salary, health and wellness benefits, financial  benefits and other incentives. 58  Valero's total investment in global employees includes direct  compensation; bonus payments; incentive stock awards; employee  benefits, including retirement, medical and welfare benefits as well as  other employment-related investments and expenses. 59 "
"McAllister, K., Rattner, N., Francis, T., June 29, 2023, Want a job that  pays $200,000? See how much the biggest companies pay. The Wall  Street Journal. 60  Responses were given in the Employee Wellness Center Survey  (Field) (2023). 61  Responses were given in the Valero Fitness Center Survey (2023). 62  Includes training related to regulatory compliance, leadership  and other topics. 63  Measurements reflect our reasonable determinations based  on available data and information regarding the"
"composition and  holdings of our stockholders over the course of our engagement  efforts in 2023. 64  See the Corporate Governance Guidelines in our website for more  details on our Stock Ownership and Retention Guidelines.  80 80 Non-GAAP Disclosures Capital Investments Attributable to Valero Valero defines capital investments attributable to Valero as  all capital expenditures, deferred turnaround and catalyst  cost expenditures, and investments in non-consolidated joint  ventures presented in"
"Valero's consolidated statements of  cash flows excluding the portion of DGD’s capital investments  attributable to the other joint venture member and all of the  capital expenditures of other variable interest entities (VIEs).  Capital investments attributable to Valero are allocated  between sustaining capital expenditures attributable to Valero  and growth capital investments attributable to Valero. DGD’s members use DGD’s operating cash flow (excluding  changes in its current assets and"
"current liabilities) to fund  its capital investments rather than distribute all of that  cash to themselves. Because DGD’s operating cash flow is  effectively attributable to each member, only 50 percent of  DGD’s capital investments should be attributed to Valero's net  share of capital investments. Valero also excludes the capital  expenditures of other consolidated VIEs because Valero does  not operate those VIEs. Valero believes that capital investments  attributable to Valero is an"
"important measure because it  more accurately reflects capital investments of Valero. Reconciliation of Capital Investments to  Capital Investments Attributable to Valero (in  millions) Year ended  December 31,  2023 Capital expenditures (excluding VIEs)  $   665  Capital expenditures of VIEs: DGD  235  Other VIEs  11  Deferred turnaround and catalyst cost  expenditures (excluding VIEs)  946  Deferred turnaround and catalyst cost  expenditures of DGD  59  Total capital investments  1,916"
"Adjustments: DGD's capital investments attributable to  the other joint venture member  (147) Capital expenditures of other VIEs  (11) Capital investments attributable to Valero  $ 1,758  Free Cash Flow Valero defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures of Valero and DGD, deferred  turnaround and catalyst cost expenditures, investments in joint ventures, and changes in current assets and liabilities. Valero  believes that the presentation of free"
"cash flow provides useful information to investors in assessing Valero’s ability to cover  ongoing costs and Valero’s ability to generate cash returns to stockholders. The GAAP measures most directly comparable to  free cash flow are net cash provided by operating activities and net cash used in investing activities. Reconciliation of Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities under GAAP to Free Cash Flow (in millions) Year ended December 31,  2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021"
"2022 2023 Net cash provided by  operating activities  $5,270  $5,564   $4,241   $5,611  $4,820  $5,482   $4,371   $5,531   $948  $5,859  $12,574   $9,229  Less: Capital expenditures of  Valero and DGD  2,931   2,121   2,153   1,618   1,278   1,353   1,628   1,769   1,537   1,555   1,641   900  Less: Deferred turnaround and  catalyst cost expenditures  479   634   649   673   718   523   915   780   648   793   1,056   1,005  Less: Investments in joint  ventures  57   76   14   141   4   406"
"181   164   54   9   1   -  Less: Changes in current assets  and current liabilities  (302)  922   (1,810)  (1,306)  976   1,289   (1,297)  294   (345)  2,225   (1,626)  (2,326) Free cash flow  $2,105   $1,811   $3,235  $4,485   $1,844   $1,911  $2,944   $2,524  $(946)  $1,277  $11,502  $9,650  Total free cash flow, 2012 - 2023   $42,342 Number of years 12 Average free cash flow, 2012 - 2023 $  3,529  Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  81 Environmental, Social and Governance Report"
"•  81 Refining Segment Adjusted EBITDA per Barrel Refining segment adjusted EBITDA is defined as Refining segment operating income (loss) excluding depreciation and amortization  expense and the effect of special items that Valero believes are not indicative of its core operating performance and that may  obscure Valero’s underlying business results, trends and comparability between periods. Refining segment adjusted EBITDA per  barrel is annual Refining segment adjusted EBITDA divided by"
"refinery throughput volume for the period. Throughput volumes are  calculated by multiplying throughput volumes per day by the number of days in the applicable period. Reconciliation of Refining Segment Operating Income (Loss) to Refining Segment Adjusted EBITDA per Barrel  (in millions except per barrel amounts) Year Ended December 31, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Refining segment operating income (loss)  $5,904   $6,881  $3,730  $3,975   $5,143   $4,022   ($1,342)  $1,862"
"$15,803   $11,511  Plus: depreciation and amortization expense 1,559  1,699  1,734   1,800  1,910  2,062  2,138   2,169  2,247  2,351  Refining segment EBITDA 7,463   8,580   5,464   5,775   7,053   6,084   796   4,031  18,050   13,862  Adjustments: Asset impairment loss  -  -  56   -  -  -  - - - - LIFO liquidation adjustment (229) - - - - - 222 - - - LCM inventory valuation adjustment - 740 (697) - - - (19) - - - Blender's tax credit - - - - (8) (2) - - - - Modification of RVO - - - - - - 105"
"(1) (104) - Other operating expenses - - - 58 45 20 34 83 63 17 Refining segment adjusted EBITDA (A) $7,234 $9,320 $4,823 $5,833 $7,090 $6,102 $1,138 $4,113 $18,009 $13,879 Throughput (million barrels) (B) 1,009 1,022 1,045 1,073 1,090 1,077 935 1,017 1,078 1,087 Refining segment adjusted EBITDA per barrel  (A/B) $7.16 $9.12 $4.62 $5.43 $6.50 $5.67 $1.21 $4.04 $16.71 $12.76 Average refining segment adjusted EBITDA per barrel, 2014 - 2023 $7.32 Note: 2014 through 2017 exclude the results of VLP;"
"2018 through 2023 exclude the results of DGD which are reflected in the Renewable Diesel Segment.  82 82 Adjusted Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities and Payout Ratio Valero defines adjusted net cash provided by operating activities as net cash provided by operating activities excluding the  items noted below. Valero believes adjusted net cash provided by operating activities is an important measure of its ongoing  financial performance to better assess its ability to generate cash to fund"
"Valero's investing and financing activities. The basis  for Valero's belief with respect to each excluded item is provided below.  •         Changes in current assets and current liabilities  - Current assets net of current liabilities represents Valero's operating  liquidity. Valero believes that the change in its operating liquidity from period to period does not represent cash generated  by Valero's operations that is available to fund Valero's investing and financing activities.  •   DGD's"
"adjusted net cash provided by operating activities attributable to the other joint venture member's ownership interest  in DGD  - Valero is a 50 percent joint venture member in DGD and consolidates DGD's financial statements; as a result, all  of DGD's net cash provided by operating activities (or operating cash flow) is included in Valero's consolidated net cash  provided by operating activities. DGD's members use DGD's operating cash flow (excluding changes in its current assets  and current"
"liabilities) to fund its capital investments rather than distribute all of that cash to themselves. Nevertheless,  DGD's operating cash flow is effectively attributable to each member and only 50 percent of DGD's operating cash flow  should be attributed to Valero's net cash provided by operating activities. Therefore, net cash provided by operating  activities has been adjusted for the portion of DGD's operating cash flow attributable to the other joint venture member's  ownership interest"
"because Valero believes that it more accurately reflects the operating cash flow available to Valero to  fund Valero's investing and financing activities. Payout Ratio is the sum of dividends and stock buybacks, including a 1% excise tax that commenced in 2023, divided by adjusted  net cash provided by operating activities.  Reconciliation of Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities to Adjusted Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities  (in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 2018"
"2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Net cash provided by operating activities  $5,611  $4,820  $5,482   $4,371   $5,531   $948  $5,859  $12,574   $9,229  Exclude: Changes in current assets and current  liabilities  (1,306)  976   1,289    (1,297)   294    (345)   2,225  (1,626) (2,326) DGD's adjusted net cash provided by  operating activities attributable to the other  joint venture member 81 83  41   175   390   338   381  436  512  Adjusted net cash provided by operating  activities (A) $6,836   $3,761"
"$4,152  $5,493  $4,847  $955  $3,253  $13,764 $11,043 Reconciliation of Purchases of Common Stock for Treasury and Common Stock Dividends to Payout Ratio  (in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Purchases of common stock for treasury*  $2,838  $1,336  $1,372  $1,708  $777  $156  $27  $4,577 $5,188 Common stock dividends 848  1,111   1,242   1,369  1,492 1,600 1,602 1,562 1,452 Total payout (B) $3,686  $2,447  $2,614  $3,077  $2,269  $1,756  $1,629"
"$6,139 $6,640 Payout ratio (B/A) 54% 65% 63% 56% 47% 184% 50% 45% 60% * Purchases of common stock for treasury includes 1% excise tax commencing in 2023. Accordingly, 2023 includes excise tax of $52 million.   Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  83 Environmental, Social and Governance Report  •  83 Return on Invested Capital (ROIC)  Valero defines return on invested capital (ROIC) as adjusted net income (loss) attributable to Valero stockholders before adjusted  net interest expense"
"after-tax, divided by average adjusted invested capital. Valero defines adjusted net income attributable to  Valero as net income (loss) attributable to Valero stockholders adjusted for the after-tax effect of special items attributable to  Valero that Valero believes are not indicative of its core operating performance and that may obscure Valero's underlying business  results and trends (see corresponding earnings release for each year). Valero defines adjusted net interest expense as"
"“interest and  debt expense, net of capitalized interest” adjusted to exclude “interest and debt expense, net of capitalized interest” attributable to  noncontrolling interests. The income tax effect of adjusted net interest expense is estimated based on the U.S. statutory income tax  rate for the respective annual period. Average adjusted invested capital is defined as the average of total adjusted invested capital  for the current annual period and total adjusted invested capital for the prior"
"annual period. Valero defines total adjusted invested  capital as debt attributable to Valero, plus Valero stockholders' equity less adjusted cash and cash equivalents. Debt attributable to  Valero is defined as the current portion of debt and finance lease obligations, plus “debt and finance lease obligations, less current  portion”, less total debt and finance lease obligations attributable to consolidated VIEs. Debt attributable to Valero for the year  ended December 31, 2014 includes an"
"adjustment to reflect the retrospective adoption of ASU No. 2015-15 subtopic 835-30, which  resulted in the reclassification of certain debt issuance costs from “deferred charges and other assets, net” to “debt and finance  lease obligations, less current portion.” Adjusted cash and cash equivalents is defined as cash and cash equivalents adjusted to  exclude cash and cash equivalents of consolidated VIEs. Debt and cash attributable to consolidated VIEs are excluded because  amounts are only"
"available to fund the operations of the VIEs and the creditors do not have recourse against Valero.  Return on Invested Capital (ROIC)  (in millions) Year Ended December 31, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Numerator: Net income (loss) attributable to VLO  stockholders  $3,990  $2,289  $4,065  $3,122  $2,422  ($1,421) $930  $11,528  $8,835 Total effect of special items attributable to  VLO after-tax 624 (565)  (1,783) 113 (61) 238 221 48 (9) Adjusted net income (loss)"
"attributable  to VLO  4,614  1,724 2,282 3,235 2,361 (1,183) 1,151 11,576  8,826 Plus: adjusted net interest expense after-tax 274 283 295 357 355 442 464 410 394 Adjusted net income (loss) attributable to  VLO before adjusted net interest expense  after-tax (A) 4,888 2,007 2,577 3,592 2,716 (741) 1,615 11,986 9,220 Denominator: Current portion of debt 606 127 115 122 238 494 723 1,264 1,109 1,406 Debt and finance leases, less current  portion 5,780  7,208 7,886 8,750 8,871 9,178 13,954 12,606"
"10,526 10,118 Less: debt issue costs - non-bank debt (ASU  2015-15) (33) - - - - - - - - - Less: debt and finance leases attributable  to VIEs (29) (193) (576) (954) (1,138) (384) (630) (1,107) (1,618) (1,725) Debt attributable to VLO 6,324 7,142 7,425 7,918 7,971 9,288 14,047 12,763 10,017 9,799 VLO stockholders’ equity 20,677 20,527 20,024 21,991 21,667 21,803 18,801 18,430 23,561 26,346 Less: adjusted cash and cash equivalents   (3,419) (3,982) (4,563) (5,671) (2,747) (2,473) (3,152) (4,086)"
"(4,713) (5,164) Total adjusted invested capital $23,582  $23,687  $22,886  $24,238  $26,891  $28,618  $29,696  $27,107  $28,865  $30,981  Average adjusted invested capital (B)   $23,635  $23,287  $23,562 $25,656 $27,755 $29,157  $28,401 $27,986  $29,923 ROIC (A / B) 21% 9% 11% 14% 10% -3% 6% 43% 31% ROIC (9-year average) 16%  Valero Energy Corporation  P.O. Box 696000, San Antonio, TX 78269 Valero.com Digital Copy LEADING PRODUCER OF LIQUID  TRANSPORTATION FUELS CAPITAL DISCIPLINE INNOVATION"
"UNMATCHED EXECUTION Scan for a playlist of the videos  featured throughout this report,  marked with this play button:"
