"WE’RE DRIVING SUSTAINABILITY SM 2025 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT  TABLE OF CONTENTS About WM WM (WM.com) is North America’s leading  provider of comprehensive environmental  solutions. Previously known as Waste  Management and based in Houston, Texas,  WM is driven by commitments to put people  first and achieve success with integrity. The  company, through its subsidiaries, provides  collection, recycling and disposal services to  millions of residential, commercial, industrial,  medical and"
"municipal customers throughout  the U.S. and Canada. With innovative  infrastructure and capabilities in recycling,  organics and renewable energy, WM provides  environmental solutions to and collaborates  with its customers in helping them pursue their  sustainability goals. In North America, WM has  the largest disposal network and collection  fleet, is the largest recycler and is a leader in  beneficial use of landfill gas, with a growing  network of renewable natural gas plants and  the most"
"landfill gas-to-electricity plants, as  well as the largest heavy-duty natural gas truck  fleet in the industry. WM Healthcare Solutions  provides collection and disposal services  of regulated medical waste and secure  information destruction services in the U.S.,  Canada and Western Europe.  To learn more about WM and the company’s  sustainability progress and solutions, visit  sustainability.wm.com. Breaking New Ground in Renewable Energy Managing Our Climate Impact Advancing Modern Landfills"
"A More Sustainable Fleet About this Report WM is committed to consistent and meaningful  public disclosure and discussion of our sustainability  progress through our annual sustainability reporting.  All data is for the year ended December 31, 2024,  except where noted. Data has been rounded  throughout for readability. Also, unless otherwise  noted, this data excludes Stericycle, Inc., which  we acquired in November 2024. The acquired  operations of Stericycle now constitute the WM  Healthcare"
"Solutions segment. We publish updates  in a few formats: •     This Sustainability Report details annual  progress on our sustainability initiatives and our  2030 sustainability goals; available as a PDF •  The Sustainability Data Center displays data on  many aspects of our sustainability performance  indicators over the last four years and includes  relevant Sustainability Accounting Standards  Board (SASB) disclosure metrics •      The Sustainability Hub hosts updates on our  sustainability"
"initiatives and our sustainability  disclosures, including: Climate Brief aligned with  IFRS S2/TCFD, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)  and SASB indices, United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, Sustainability A to Z  resource pages, and a past reports archive Introduction     2 WM’s Sustainability Ambitions A Message from Our CEO & CSO  We’re Driving SustainabilitySM Our Sustainability Growth Strategy 2024 Highlights Driving Progress Toward Our Ambitions Material is Repurposed    8"
"Enabling Circular Solutions Advancing Recycling Access & Awareness Expanding Materials Solutions Managing Organic Materials Strategic Solutions to Support  Customer Sustainability Energy is Renewable       14 Communities are Thriving     19 Get Home Safe Every Day People First Supporting Our Communities Governance   25 Sustainability Disclosures Forward-Looking Statements See our Sustainability Disclosures for links to  data and indices   2 2025 Sustainability Report INTRODUCTION MATERIAL   IS"
"REPURPOSED ENERGY   IS RENEWABLE COMMUNITIES   ARE THRIVING GOVERNANCE  WM’S SUSTAINABILITY  AMBITIONS At WM, sustainability is central to our business. For more than 50 years, we’ve played an important role in  keeping communities clean and safe. We continue innovating to help deliver the comprehensive solutions  our customers seek to thrive in today’s dynamic environment.  In 2024, we made significant progress through our sustainability growth investments and commitment to  showing up for our"
"employees, customers, communities and the environment.  By leveraging our extensive infrastructure, innovative practices and deep expertise to help address pressing  environmental challenges, we are driving sustainability today, For Tomorrow®. A Message From Our CEO & CSO As North America’s leading provider of environmental solutions, WM plays a crucial role in helping to  create a more sustainable future. For decades, we’ve helped keep our communities clean and safe by  providing essential"
"collection, disposal and recycling services to millions of businesses, homes and  municipalities. Today, we continue to invest in WM’s infrastructure and offerings to help solve some  of our customers’ toughest problems. Our work is guided by WM’s sustainability ambitions — material is repurposed, energy is renewable  and communities are thriving. These ambitions and accompanying goals are central to our business,  and in the past year, they’ve come to life in meaningful ways. In 2024, we made"
"significant progress on our plans to invest over $3 billion in sustainability growth  projects from 2022 through 2026. We also expanded into medical waste and secure information  destruction spaces with the acquisition of Stericycle, which now constitutes our WM Healthcare  Solutions segment. This was an important addition to WM’s strategic growth in 2024, as it deepens  our ability to deliver solutions that protect the health, safety and well-being of our communities. At our modern, highly"
"engineered landfills, we leveraged advanced technology and monitoring to  continue to evolve how we responsibly manage waste, leading to a 22% reduction in Scope 1 and 2  greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions since 2021. Additionally, we completed upgrades or new builds of  12 recycling facilities and brought five new WM-owned renewable natural gas facilities online in 2024  — helping to expand access to recycling and lower-emission energy sources. These projects added  545,000 tons of annual recycling"
"capacity and increased beneficial use of WM’s landfill gas to 45%. Along the way, we’ve pursued our ambition to build thriving communities by leading with safety  as a core value and investing in recycling initiatives, environmental impact projects and recycling  engagement programs. We are thankful for the WM team for all they do to live out our values, serve our customers and  advance our sustainability goals. Together with our customers and communities, we are driving  change through action."
"We hope you enjoy learning more about our sustainability-related initiatives and progress in our  2025 Sustainability Report. Jim Fish  Chief Executive Officer  Tara Hemmer  Senior Vice President and  Chief Sustainability Officer We provide and seek to uncover  innovative waste solutions that help  fuel the continuous reuse of materials. We collaborate to strengthen  the resiliency of the diverse  places where we live and work. We leverage advanced technologies  to generate energy from the waste"
"we manage, which can power  communities and reduce emissions. Material is REPURPOSED We’re reimagining a circular economy.  Energy is RENEWABLE We’re innovating for climate progress. Communities are THRIVING We’re empowering people to live sustainably. 3 2025 Sustainability Report INTRODUCTION MATERIAL   IS REPURPOSED ENERGY   IS RENEWABLE COMMUNITIES   ARE THRIVING GOVERNANCE  RNG SCHOOL RNG We continue to expand our industry-leading,  alternative fuel fleet, increase allocation of  renewable"
"natural gas, and continue to explore  autonomous technology for enhanced safety,  efficiency and reliability. --> Material is Repurposed Energy is Renewable Communities are Thriving WM provides recycling education as well as  scholarships, mentorship programs and  school programs to support our communities  and a future-ready green workforce. --> We provide businesses and customers with  strategic material management, backed by  data, technology and industry leadership. --> We invest in modern"
"landfill technology that drives the  industry forward in the areas of emissions detection,  quantification and mitigation. Technologies like  automated wellheads and mobile data collection  systems are transforming how we monitor gas levels  and capture and analyze information. --> We capture landfill gas and process it into pipeline-quality  renewable natural gas which can provide our communities,  customers and fleet with a lower-carbon energy source, and  position WM as a community energy"
"partner. --> Our experts deliver tailored sustainability  solutions to a variety of customers,  from sports venues to national retailers.  WM is a true sustainability partner for  our customers. --> BAGSTER For more information about each of  our efforts, click the --> symbol. WM provides waste and recycling solutions for  millions of customers to help protect the health,  safety and well-being of communities. --> Our robust network of recycling and organics  facilities leverage advanced"
"technology to  enable recovery of more materials and uncover  innovative solutions that support our customers  and the circular economy. --> We continue to expand our service offerings, such  as regulated medical waste and secure information  destruction solutions, which helps customers safely  manage medical and pharmaceutical waste. -->                 WM protects and provides access to green space  by working with experts to transform land into  wildlife habitats and outdoor learning spaces."
"--> WE’RE DRIVING SUSTAINABILITY SM Key 4 2025 Sustainability Report INTRODUCTION MATERIAL   IS REPURPOSED ENERGY   IS RENEWABLE COMMUNITIES   ARE THRIVING GOVERNANCE  OUR SUSTAINABILITY GROWTH STRATEGY 1 All MMBtu of RNG capacity and tons of recycling capacity shown are annual. All facilities discussed on this page are owned by WM. ™/© 2025 MLB At WM, we are committed to leading the way through our sustainability growth strategy — expanding access to recycling and  lower-emission energy"
"sources. We are driving sustainability forward by providing innovative, circular solutions customers  and communities need to help create a better future.     —Tara Hemmer, Senior Vice President and Chief Sustainability Officer Developed sustainability goals  and ambitions and announced  sustainability growth investments Hosted our first WM  Sustainability Investor Day WM acquired Stericycle, enabling WM to expand  the comprehensive suite of solutions offered to our  customers to help them"
"pursue their sustainability goals Announced WM as a  Sustainability Partner of MLB™,  growing brand exposure East Oak renewable natural gas  (RNG) facility opened + 500K MMBtu of capacity Eco Vista RNG facility opened  + 500K MMBtu of capacity 12 recycling facilities: 2 new  markets and 10 automation upgrades  + 545K tons of capacity 9 recycling facilities scheduled  to open or be upgraded  + 753K tons of capacity 5 recycling facilities: 1 new market  and 4 automation upgrades  + 74K tons of"
"capacity 5 RNG facilities opened + 6.5M MMBtu of capacity Planning to deliver 8 RNG  facilities, projected to generate  11.2M MMBtu of capacity 8 recycling facilities: 3 new markets  and 5 automation upgrades  + 858K tons of capacity Planning to deliver 5 RNG facilities, projected  to generate 6.5M MMBtu of capacity 25 out of 39 planned recycling projects 13 out of 39 planned recycling projects 5 out of 39 planned recycling projects1 7 out of 20 planned RNG projects 2 out of 20 planned RNG"
"projects 1 out of 20 planned RNG projects1 Expected to increase annual recycling capacity by  2.8 million tons. 39 total recycling growth projects  on track to be completed by the end of 2026. 5 recycling facilities scheduled to open or  be upgraded + 529K tons of capacity 2024 2026 2025 2022 2023 Anticipated to add an additional 25 million MMBtu  of annual capacity to generate renewable energy. 20 total RNG facilities  on track to be completed by the end of 2026. 5 2025 Sustainability Report"
"INTRODUCTION MATERIAL   IS REPURPOSED ENERGY   IS RENEWABLE COMMUNITIES   ARE THRIVING GOVERNANCE  2024  HIGHLIGHTS WM AT-A-GLANCE $22 billion revenue2 61,700 team members2 105 recycling facilities 49 organics processing facilities 262 active landfills 151 landfill gas beneficial use projects3 213 natural gas fueling stations 18,860 collection vehicles4 16 million  tons of material  recovered for recycling5 545,000  tons of annual recycling capacity added in 2024 22%  reduction in Scope 1 and 2"
"GHG  emissions since 2021 $11.4 million  toward Your Tomorrow  educational benefits $27.6 million in charitable contributions,  1% of net income directed to targeted social impact  and workforce development programs 6% reduction in overall injuries compared to 20237 3.23 Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR)  safety performance 15  Major League Baseball® Clubs and 11 additional  sports venues engaged with sustainability  advisory services 3.8 million  tons of organics  processed Two recycling"
"facilities in new markets Ten automation projects  completed 45%  of landfill gas utilized  for beneficial use 18,000  acres of landfill  capped to enable  and enhance landfill  gas capture 13,500  acres actively managed  for wildlife preservation8 2 Inclusive of WM and Stericycle as of 12/31/2024. 3 Facility count is inclusive of WM-owned-and-operated facilities plus third-party  facilities operating on WM landfills. 4 Collection Vehicles indicates the number of active vehicles that register"
"more than  600 on-road hours within the reported year. 5 Tons of material recovered for recycling includes tons of organics material processed. 6 Landfill gas converted to energy is a measure of energy produced at renewable energy  facilities on WM landfills, inclusive of WM-owned-and-operated and third-party. 7 Includes employees and contingent labor workforce. 8 Acres are actively managed through Wildlife Habitat Council certified programs. Communities are Thriving Energy is Renewable Material"
"is Repurposed We’re empowering people to  live sustainably. We’re innovating for climate progress. We’re reimagining a circular economy. 58.1 million  MMBtu of landfill gas converted to energy  for sale/use6 5  new, WM-owned  renewable natural  gas plants brought  online CO2 6 2025 Sustainability Report INTRODUCTION MATERIAL   IS REPURPOSED ENERGY   IS RENEWABLE COMMUNITIES   ARE THRIVING GOVERNANCE  Units Progress Insights Circularity  Increase recovery of materials by 60% to  25 million tons"
"per year by 2030, including  an interim milestone of a 25% increase by 2025 Tons  recovered 5% increase in materials recovery since 2021 Delivered on planned recycling projects and recycling volumes  growth to maximize materials recovered. Climate Impact  Reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG  emissions 42% by 2031 from a 2021  base year8 Metric  tons CO2e 22% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions since 2021 Expanded landfill gas collection and conversion to renewable energy  supports GHG"
"emission reductions. Target beneficial use of 65% of our captured  landfill gas by 2027 Percent  LFG to  beneficial  use 1.4 million MMBtu increase in landfill gas beneficial use since 2021 Executed on planned renewable energy facilities and maximizing  energy generation. Updated target year to align with renewable natural  gas facilities timeline. Safety  Reduce Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR),  targeting 2.0 by 2030; and continued focus  on prevention of serious injuries OSHA  Recordable"
"Injuries per  200,000  work hours 6% reduction in overall injuries year over year9 Incidents declined, offset by operating efficiency reduction in work hours.  Continue to focus on prevention of serious injuries. People First  Promote a culture of belonging  VOE  engagement  score (%) 700 basis point improvement in engagement score since 2023 Continued focus on People First culture and encouraged participation  in Voice of the Employee (VOE) survey. Social Impact  Positively impact 10 million"
"people in our  communities through targeted social impact  programs by 2030, using the equivalent of  2% of our net income10 People  positively  impacted $27.6 million charitable contributions in USD in 2024 Contributed 1% of our 2024 net income to targeted social impact and  workforce development programs. Energy is RENEWABLE Communities  are THRIVING 2030 2027 2024 2024 2021 Baseline 2021 Baseline DRIVING PROGRESS TOWARD OUR AMBITIONS Material is  REPURPOSED 16,037,600 25,000,000 15,337,500"
"78% 45% 71% 45% 65% 2030 2024 2021 Baseline 3.23 2024 2023 2.0 3.00 8   The target boundary includes land-related emissions and removals from bioenergy feedstocks. 9   Includes employees and contingent labor workforce. 10 Total annual charitable contributions are compared to the same year’s annual net income. 11  In 2022, we updated our reporting methodology to align with the 2030 goal to positively impact people through targeted social impact programs. Reporting reflects programs from 2022 and"
"beyond. 10 million 2030 2022 2024 2.6 million people positively impacted  since 202211 2031 2024 2021 Baseline 9,951,800 13,332,200 17,158,300  7 2025 Sustainability Report INTRODUCTION MATERIAL   IS REPURPOSED ENERGY   IS RENEWABLE COMMUNITIES   ARE THRIVING GOVERNANCE  MATERIAL IS  REPURPOSED WM is working to advance the circular economy by investing  in state-of-the-art technology and innovative solutions. These  initiatives are expected to increase access and service offerings  for our"
"customers, enhance our resource recovery capabilities  and expand sustainability advisory services. In order to achieve our ambitious goal to recover 25 million tons of  material per year by 2030 — a 60% increase from 2021 — we are on  track to invest more than $1.4 billion in building new and upgrading  existing recycling facilities. We are leveraging automation and  artificial intelligence in an effort to capture more material and  increase efficiency. We are pursuing innovative solutions for"
"harder-to-recycle materials, such as flexible plastics, while  helping to educate the communities we serve through our  Recycle Right® program and other initiatives. These efforts  further our vision to enable more materials to be repurposed  and foster more sustainable communities. 16 million tons of material recovered for recycling12 545,000 tons annual recycling capacity added in 2024 3.8 million tons of organics processed 12 new or upgraded recycling facility projects 12 Tons of material"
"recovered for recycling includes tons of organics material processed. 8 2025 Sustainability Report 8 INTRODUCTION MATERIAL   IS REPURPOSED ENERGY   IS RENEWABLE COMMUNITIES   ARE THRIVING GOVERNANCE  ENABLING CIRCULAR SOLUTIONS With our broad expertise and robust network of advanced facilities,  WM is uniquely positioned to help innovate circular solutions for a  variety of commodities including fiber, organics, plastics, textiles and  other hard-to-recycle materials. Circularity Innovation in"
"Plastics In addition to expanding our own capabilities and facilities, WM  seeks to uncover new opportunities to help drive circularity through  collaboration with customers, suppliers and other organizations.  For example, we collaborated with a national retailer to support their  child car seat recycling campaign, encouraging communities to bring  old car seats to select stores for collection and recycling.  $1.4B WM is on track to invest  over $1.4 billion in recycling  infrastructure from"
"2022 to 2026 Increase recovery of materials by 60% to 25 million tons per year by  2030, including an interim milestone of a 25% increase by 2025 2024 PROGRESS 5% increase in materials recovery since 2021 baseline 2024 13 Other includes fly ash, construction and demolition waste, e-waste, lamps, batteries and other specialty materials. 8,920,200 416,800 493,200 3,781,400 465,600 1,960,400 2024 MATERIALS RECOVERED BY TYPE (Tons) Paper/Fiber Plastic Glass  Organics Metal  Other13 2030 16,037,600"
"2023 2022 15,337,500 2021 Baseline From mail to  cereal boxes From glass  to fiberglass From aluminum to  new aluminum cans From water jugs  to carpet RECYCLING TRANSFORMED WM collects, sorts and bales recycled materials so they  can find a new life when sold to manufacturers who  transform them into new products. Recycling can reduce  the need to use virgin materials, helping to contribute to  a circular economy. Since the campaign’s inception in 2018, WM has recovered over 24,000  tons of car"
"seat materials, including more than 6,000 tons from two  collection events in 2024. Components of the recovered material can  be used by manufacturers to create new products such as pallets, plastic  buckets and construction materials.  We have also worked with professional golf and motor racing events to  repurpose grandstand scaffolding HDPE mesh, called scrim, which would  likely have otherwise gone to waste. In 2024, we recovered some of  this material from the RBC Canadian Open golf"
"tournament and worked  with a manufacturer to create 100 plastic recycling carts to be used at  the same event in 2025. We anticipate continuing to collect and recycle  scrim to be transformed into recycled content carts for additional events  in 2025, including the WM Phoenix Open. 9 2025 Sustainability Report 9 INTRODUCTION MATERIAL   IS REPURPOSED ENERGY   IS RENEWABLE COMMUNITIES   ARE THRIVING GOVERNANCE  ADVANCING RECYCLING ACCESS & AWARENESS As part of our vision to enable a future where"
"materials are repurposed,  WM continues to make progress on our planned sustainability  investments. These investments are expected to generate an additional  2.8 million tons of recycling capacity per year, helping to enable the  recovery of more materials in the communities where we operate.  Our facilities are designed to better optimize materials recovery with  advanced technology, such as optical scanners, intelligent sorting  equipment, volumetric scanners, cameras and more. With the"
"largest  network of recycling facilities across North America, WM is improving  both the quantity and quality of materials recovered for potential use,  and looking for opportunities to expand markets and drive circularity.  12 25 1.5 million of 39 total planned recycling facility  projects successfully delivered projects completed in 2024 — two  facilities built in new markets and  10 facilities upgraded tons of annual processing capacity added since 2022 Driving Recycling Awareness We know"
"that recycling works better when we work together, which is  why we are committed to collaborating with municipalities and nonprofit  organizations to help support recycling education in our communities.  The 2024 WM Recycling Report studied over 1,000 American  consumers and businesses and showed that many Americans want  to recycle, despite confusion on what happens to materials. It also  revealed that Americans are more inclined to recycle when they have  greater awareness, education and"
"access — emphasizing that a robust  recycling infrastructure relies on collaboration among consumer  households, businesses, policymakers and local municipalities.  By upgrading and building new recycling facilities  with advanced technology and empowering our  communities with the resources to help them  Recycle Right®, WM is contributing to a more  sustainable future. Recycling is a powerful action  we can all take to make a positive impact on  the environment. Brent Bell, Vice President of"
"Recycling In 2024, we collaborated with the National League of Cities to launch  the Recycle Right® Campaign Toolkit. This open-source guide can help  empower municipal leaders with resources to address knowledge gaps  and encourage their communities to properly recycle. Launched on  Earth Day 2024, over 120 cities across 30 states have already signed  the Recycle Right® Pledge. WM also harnesses cutting-edge technologies, such as the WM Smart  Truck® program to help elevate recycling"
"initiatives. This advanced  system features truck-mounted cameras that skillfully detect obstacles  that could hinder recycling efforts, while also delivering timely  reminders to customers about effective recycling practices. Together,  these innovations can help make recycling easier and more effective  for our communities. To learn more,   visit wm.com/recycleright Let’s Get Back To   The Basics Of Recycling Remember these three simple rules each time you recycle: Recycle clean bottles, cans,"
"paper and cardboard. Keep food and liquid out of your recycling. No loose plastic bags and no bagged recyclables. © 2022 Intellectual Property Holdings, L.L.C. 10 2025 Sustainability Report 10 INTRODUCTION MATERIAL   IS REPURPOSED ENERGY   IS RENEWABLE COMMUNITIES   ARE THRIVING GOVERNANCE  Access to New & Expanded Recycling Solutions  Our sustainability investments are helping to expand consumer access  to recycling in existing markets and entering new, high-growth  population areas in 2024,"
"including: Fort Walton Beach, Florida: A new $30 million, 45,000-square-foot  recycling facility serving a community that previously lacked access to  recycling. The facility utilizes advanced technology and has the capacity  to process approximately 63,000 tons of recyclable materials annually. Brooklyn, New York: A $15 million investment in a new recycling facility  with equipment and building enhancements that expand fiber recycling  services to industrial, commercial and residential"
"customers. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania: A nearly $40 million automation upgrade  to our existing facility, which boosts its capacity to process up to  192,000 tons of materials each year. Germantown, Wisconsin: A nearly $39 million automation upgrade to our  existing recycling facility, capable of processing more than 230,000 tons  of material each year. 557K tons of medical waste treated  by Stericycle in 2024 30K tons of pharmaceutical waste treated  by Stericycle prior to disposal in 2024"
"EXPANDING MATERIALS SOLUTIONS In November 2024, WM acquired Stericycle, Inc., which  now constitutes our WM Healthcare Solutions segment. In  2024, Stericycle debuted a $110 million, 110,000-square- foot Hospital, Medical and Infectious Waste Incinerator  in McCarran, Nevada, that destroys potentially infectious  materials and safely disposes of unwanted medications.  Stericycle helps to ensure that active pharmaceutical  ingredients do not end up in waterways and works closely  with hospitals,"
"retail pharmacies and other organizations  to help enable the anonymous collection of unused drugs  through MedDrop™ Medication Collection Kiosks and  Seal&Send™ Consumer Medication Mail Envelopes. WM is also integrating Stericycle’s Shred-it® solution to  enhance our capabilities in secure information destruction  across various sectors, including the crucial handling  of confidential information within the medical industry.  Shred-It® securely shredded and recovered nearly 403,000  tons"
"of material for recycling in 2024.  Textile Circularity As a strategic partner to our customers, WM supports the advancement  of circularity in developing material markets, such as textile recycling.  •  Textile recycling facilities: At one of our facilities, we are piloting  robotic, near-infrared technology which helps to sort apparel by fiber  composition, color and metal presence  •       Industry collaborations: WM is working with a value chain of partners  and an emerging fiber-to-fiber"
"recycler, to help streamline the  process of collecting and managing textiles •   Community solutions: We are piloting post-consumer collection  programs for single- and multi-family households MEDICAL WASTE & SECURE  DESTRUCTION SOLUTIONS 11 2025 Sustainability Report 11 INTRODUCTION MATERIAL   IS REPURPOSED ENERGY   IS RENEWABLE COMMUNITIES   ARE THRIVING GOVERNANCE  MANAGING ORGANIC MATERIALS We are strategically growing our organics business to meet increasing  demand from customers looking"
"to pursue their sustainability goals  and adhere to evolving regulatory food waste diversion requirements.  By building new facilities, investing in technology and completing  acquisitions in this space, we are increasing capacity for organics  recycling and composting solutions. This not only serves our customers  but can also benefit communities by diverting materials from landfills,  thereby reducing GHG emissions associated with disposal operations  and enriching soil with compost"
"applications. In 2024, we focused on expanding and better optimizing the capacity  of our existing organics facilities, including those in California, Colorado,  Minnesota and New York. Through continued improvements in our  operations and technology, we are processing more organic material at  our existing facilities and have increased organics processing capacity  by 147,000 tons annually.  3,781,400 total organic tons recovered in 2024 Tackling Food Waste WM is strategically expanding our"
"organics offerings in an effort to find  more ways to manage food waste. One innovative solution is FOG2Fuel®,  which collects and processes fats, oils and grease (FOG) and converts  them into a feedstock for the production of renewable fuels, promoting  sustainability and efficiency. In 2024, we sold the first loads of brown  grease to the commodity market, providing a circular solution for a  traditionally hard-to-manage material. We plan to expand this segment  of our organics processing"
"business.  LOOKING AHEAD We’ll continue to  optimize our facilities  and implement innovative  solutions to beneficially  reuse food and other  organic materials,  such as those for FOGs  and biosolids. Expanding Biosolids Processing Capacity While organic materials derived from wastewater can be repurposed as  fertilizer or soil amendment, regulations have emerged in recent years  to limit such land applications. WM is working to expand our biosolids  processing capacity to address the growing"
"demand for biosolids  disposal solutions. WM is executing on plans to invest over $37 million to construct an  innovative biosolids processing facility at Crossroads Landfill in Maine,  utilizing a more energy-efficient drying system. The facility is designed  to reduce the volume of biosolids by drying the material, which can then  be landfilled on site. Construction began in August 2024 and is expected  to open in early 2026. The facility is anticipated to have the capacity to process 73,000"
"tons  of municipal biosolids annually, accounting for approximately 83% of  the biosolids generated in Maine. This closed-loop solution consumes  about one-third of the energy required by conventional methods, and  is also directly utilizing landfill gas to power the dryer. This facility is  expected to provide a long-term, secure and more energy efficient  solution for management of biosolids from Maine’s wastewater  treatment plants.  FROM WASTE TO WONDER WM continuously looks for ways to use"
"recovered  organic material creatively. For example, WM’s El Corazon  Compost facility provided thousands of cubic yards of  Ag Grind Mulch to The Flower Fields at Carlsbad Ranch®.  The mulch, made from yard trimmings and food waste,  enriches the soil as it breaks down which helps to  improve water retention as well as prevent erosion  and weeds. 12 2025 Sustainability Report 12 INTRODUCTION MATERIAL   IS REPURPOSED ENERGY   IS RENEWABLE COMMUNITIES   ARE THRIVING GOVERNANCE  STRATEGIC"
"SOLUTIONS TO SUPPORT  CUSTOMER SUSTAINABILITY To help enable the circular economy, WM’s network of experts  collaborates with a wide variety of customers to identify and implement  sustainability-related initiatives that can support their unique needs.  As a strategic partner, WM aims to deliver tailored solutions for each  customer — from early stages to end-of-life — that can help minimize  waste, establish more sustainable practices and enable material reuse  opportunities. We embrace working"
"with diverse customer segments,  including petrochemical, manufacturing, industrial, healthcare, maritime,  transportation, retail, events, entertainment venues and sports leagues  and teams. In 2024, we leveraged our expertise in material management and  circularity to expand our advisory work to the public sector through  targeted engagements that assist municipalities to design and implement  impactful sustainability-related programs. We also provide support for  stakeholder engagement and"
"measuring and reporting GHG emissions. Enhancing Sustainability in Sports Venues WM helps professional sports leagues, teams and venues advance  sustainability. As a Sustainability Partner of Major League Baseball®, we  deliver strategic support for materials management programs (recovery,  recycling, organics) and fan education, onboarding 15 individual clubs  in 2024. We also work with teams within professional basketball, football  and hockey leagues to help collect data, set goals and"
"operationalize  sustainability practices. WM also looks for ways to convene leaders to create impact. For  example, each year we bring together organizations to make the WM  Phoenix Open “THE GREENEST SHOW ON GRASS.” The WM Phoenix  Open is much more than a golf tournament. As one of the world’s  largest zero-waste sporting events, it’s an opportunity to educate  fans around sustainability, raise money to benefit the local community  and inspire spectators to reimagine the environmental"
"footprint of  sporting events. The event has helped raise more than $142 million  for nonprofits in the 15 years that WM has been the title sponsor.  LOOKING AHEAD By leveraging our circularity  expertise, we aim to forge new  relationships, develop innovative  solutions to our customers’ material  challenges and find opportunities  to advance circularity.  FROM HARD-TO-RECYCLE  TO NEW SOLUTIONS WM continues to work with customers to find solutions  for harder-to-recycle items. In 2024, our"
"Industrial Waste  team completed a large-scale pilot program for a new  centrifuge processing application in the renewable fuels  sector. This innovative solution extracts oil from a waste  byproduct called gums emulsion. During the pilot, we  processed nearly 400,000 gallons of raw gums waste,  successfully recovering 34% or more than 130,000 gallons  of oil.  Working with WM is like working with a  high-level elite coach. Antony Bonavita, Executive Vice President, Chief Venues and  Development"
"Officer. Rock Entertainment Group/Cleveland Cavaliers. ™/© 2025 MLB 13 2025 Sustainability Report 13 INTRODUCTION MATERIAL   IS REPURPOSED ENERGY   IS RENEWABLE COMMUNITIES   ARE THRIVING GOVERNANCE  ENERGY IS  RENEWABLE Five WM-owned RNG facilities opened in 2024 WM is advancing a lower-carbon, circular economy by harnessing  landfill gas to generate renewable energy. Our focus on innovation and advanced landfill management unlocks  the potential of landfill gas by converting it into pipeline-"
"quality  renewable natural gas (RNG), which can help fuel communities and  be allocated to our own natural gas collection fleet. We are on  track to invest $1.6 billion in renewable energy capabilities from  2022 to 2026, resulting in 20 new RNG facilities over that period  and furthering our sustainability growth strategy. By improving landfill gas recovery and measurement, we  are advancing our decarbonization efforts — reducing our  GHG emissions and supporting the larger energy transition"
"from fossil fuels to renewable resources. Our sophisticated  measurement technologies aid in improving capture for  beneficial use of landfill gas. 14 Landfill gas converted to energy is a measure of energy produced at renewable energy  facilities on WM landfills, inclusive of WM-owned-and-operated and third-party. 22% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions  since 2021 74% of alternative fuel consumption allocated  to RNG 58.1 million MMBtu of landfill gas converted to energy for  sale/use14"
"14 2025 Sustainability Report INTRODUCTION MATERIAL   IS REPURPOSED ENERGY   IS RENEWABLE COMMUNITIES   ARE THRIVING GOVERNANCE  Creating renewable energy is helping to  reduce emissions and support our customers  and communities on their decarbonization  journeys. This innovative approach to turning  waste into a domestic renewable fuel source  positions WM as a community energy partner  today, and into the future. Shahid Malik, Vice President of Renewable Energy BREAKING NEW GROUND IN"
"RENEWABLE ENERGY To help meet the growing need for domestic renewable energy, WM  continues to expand production of renewable energy. By increasing  renewable natural gas (RNG) availability, we are not only supporting  decarbonization, but also creating jobs, strengthening local economies  and driving long-term business growth.  Since our 2021 baseline, we have increased landfill gas capture for  use in energy or sale by 1.4 million MMBtu. As of 2024, WM operates  or hosts 151 beneficial use"
"projects across our landfills, including  nearly 100 sites fully owned by WM.  FROM BIOGAS TO LOWER-CARBON FUEL GENERATING RENEWABLE ENERGY Our Fairless Landfill Complex, located in Pennsylvania,  exemplifies our strategy for maximizing the beneficial use  of landfill gas. Our new RNG facility at the site generates  natural gas that flows into the nearby commercial natural  gas distribution network. The facility is expected to produce  and distribute roughly three million MMBtu per year of RNG."
"Additional community efforts include pollinator gardens and  environmental education at the landfill. We continue to increase the total volume of landfill gas captured and  our total amount of renewable energy generated from landfill gas,  with the former at a slightly faster rate. Beneficial use of 65% of captured landfill gas by 202715 202715 2024 2021 Baseline 2022 2023 45% 45% 45% 43% 65% 2024 PROGRESS Landfill gas is processed into RNG  that can be allocated to WM’s  alternative fuel fleet."
"Landfill gas can be used to  generate electricity which can be  distributed through the power grid. Landfill gas can be used for heat or  in industrial processing equipment  at WM’s facilities or third-party sites. 58.1 million MMBtu of landfill gas converted to  energy for sale/use16 The equivalent of 300,000+ homes powered annually18 The equivalent of more than   275,000+  tons of coal per year avoided19 The equivalent of 21.5 million gallons of diesel replaced17 Powering Our Communities"
"Powering Our Fleet Other Beneficial Use Powering More Communities In 2024, WM opened five new WM-owned RNG facilities:  •     Dallas-Fort Worth, Texas        •       Fairless, Pennsylvania •        Orchard Hills, Illinois         •       Security, Texas •       Temple, Texas These facilities play a critical role in reducing emissions and supporting  the circular economy by collecting landfill gas and processing it for reuse.  Investments in our growing RNG infrastructure were a key contributor"
"to  a 3% increase in landfill gas captured in 2024 over the previous year. 15 Updated target year to align with renewable natural gas facilities timeline. 16 Landfill gas converted to energy is a measure of energy produced at renewable energy facilities on WM landfills, inclusive of WM-owned-and-operated and third-party. 17 This is calculated by converting the energy content (MMBtu) of RNG to diesel gallon equivalents using Argonne National Laboratory conversion factors. 18 This is calculated"
"by converting the total MMBtu of landfill gas from WM and third-party renewable energy projects into electricity using U.S. EPA eGRID data, then dividing by average annual household electricity use by state. 19 MMBtu of landfill gas generated for other beneficial use include on-site leachate processing and other industrial applications. Gas volumes are converted to equivalent tons of coal based on approximate heat content. 15 2025 Sustainability Report INTRODUCTION MATERIAL   IS REPURPOSED"
"ENERGY   IS RENEWABLE COMMUNITIES   ARE THRIVING GOVERNANCE  22% reduction from baseline  Reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 42% by 2031  from a 2021 base year (science-based target)20 2022 2023 2031 2024 PROGRESS 2024 2021 Baseline MANAGING OUR CLIMATE IMPACT Our extensive operational decarbonization efforts support our Scope  1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions goals, which have been  validated by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). Nearly 90% of WM’s carbon footprint"
"comes from Scope 1 GHG  emissions, primarily generated from our landfills and fleet operations.  Our strategy to address our direct emissions focuses on: •     Expanding landfill cover and capping systems to limit the release  of landfill gas •    Installing and expanding gas collection systems to capture landfill  gas more effectively •     Increasing generation of renewable natural gas and allocating to our  collection fleet We utilize emissions modeling and detection technologies to support"
"these initiatives and generate insights that help accelerate our near term  decarbonization efforts. In 2024, we estimate there was an approximate  100,000 metric tons CO2e reduction year-over-year in landfill emissions  from projects prioritized through utilizing our landfill capital planning  tool. As we continue to develop targeted strategies, we integrate the  GHG emissions forecasts into a dashboard to drive visibility of progress  toward our targets and help enable data-driven decisions."
"20 The target boundary includes land-related emissions and removals from bioenergy feedstocks. 21 Percentages may not add up to 100% due to rounding. Further details on WM’s GHG emissions can be found in the Sustainability Data Center. 22 Renewable Electricity is comprised of RECs generated from WM landfill gas-to-electricity facilities and then retired against WM’s direct electricity usage. AVOIDED EMISSIONS (Metric tons CO2e)  31,178,600 22,107,700 2,870,000 2024 Total Renewable energy"
"generation Reuse and recycling of materials Carbon permanently sequestered in landfills 56,156,300 WM’S GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (Metric tons CO2e)21 87% 13,223,300 13% 1,953,500 Scope 3 Scope 2 (market-based)22 Scope 1 2021 Total 20,516,000 2022 Total 16,948,400 2023 Total 16,873,500 2024 Total 15,285,700 15,285,700 Total <1% 108,900 UNDERSTANDING OUR GHG EMISSIONS  Scope 1 Scope 1 GHG emissions decreased 22% in 2024 from  a 2021 base year, primarily driven by an increase in  landfill gas"
"captured and RNG allocation to our alternative  fuel consumption. Scope 2 WM strives to use renewable energy in our operations; 60%  of electricity use in 2024 came from renewable sources.22 Scope 3 Though Scope 3 is a small part of our GHG footprint,  we continue to report and work with our value chain to  support emissions reduction initiatives such as optimized  third-party transportation. We believe it is imperative to innovate and leverage  technology to deliver best-in-class logistics,"
"drive  increased efficiency and minimize environmental  impact, while improving safety for our team and  providing a better experience for our customers. John Morris, President and Chief Operating Officer Learn more about our climate program, including strategy,  emissions and risks in our Climate Brief   13,332,200 17,158,300 16 2025 Sustainability Report INTRODUCTION MATERIAL   IS REPURPOSED ENERGY   IS RENEWABLE COMMUNITIES   ARE THRIVING GOVERNANCE  ADVANCING MODERN LANDFILLS LAYERING"
"EMISSIONS MEASUREMENT TECHNOLOGIES WM deploys a tiered system of technologies to identify and measure emissions. Satellites Drone Technology Aircraft Sensors Fixed  Sensors Handhelds Tracer Correlation LAB 4 3 1 2 4 2 3 1 WM acquired AirLogic™ to help  aggregate data from emission  detection systems, optical  imagery, meteorological and  operational data into one place. REDUCING LANDFILL GAS EMISSIONS We employ three key levers to help minimize emissions  from landfills:  Cover Systems are used"
"on the surface of active landfill  working faces to contain and control landfill emissions,  odors, fires, pests, dust and litter. These systems  can also oxidize methane, and reduce precipitation  infiltration and leachate generation. Capping Systems are temporary or final covers that  provide an engineered barrier between the upper  portion of a landfill and the surrounding environment.  These systems contain waste, minimize stormwater  infiltration and enhance landfill gas capture. Gas"
"Collection & Control Systems are technologies  designed to collect and manage landfill gas, primarily  focused on methane, which can be used for renewable  energy production. At WM, we’re leading the way in emissions management by proactively  monitoring, measuring and responding to landfill gas emissions across  our sites. Where emissions monitoring historically relied on periodic,  manual surveys, we now deploy advanced technologies that deliver  real-time, site-specific insights. This"
"approach not only improves  responsiveness — it allows us to capture more gas for beneficial use,  turning a potential emission into a renewable energy opportunity. By  combining operational excellence with environmental innovation, we’re  strengthening our position as a leader in greenhouse gas reduction and  maximizing the value of every cubic foot of landfill gas we recover. Landfill Emissions Measurement Innovation In addition to performing standard surface emission monitoring as required"
"by our permits and regulations, WM also practices a layered approach and  integrates multiple detection and quantification methods to account for  the complex factors influencing methane emissions, such as topography,  weather and operational activities. This provides more precise data, helping  us to optimize landfill gas capture and advance our climate-related goals.  We continue to explore evolving capabilities of ground, aerial and satellite- based methane detection and monitoring systems."
"In 2024, we conducted  a measurement study at over 25 of our WM sites to assess accuracy  and reliability of various measurement technologies. We are expanding  this study to more than 50 sites in 2025, intending to improve data  measurement and further enable our emissions reduction efforts. Automated wellheads at WM landfills continuously monitor gas levels  and automatically adjust gas recovery rates in real-time to help optimize  landfill gas captured, minimize human exposure to potential"
"hazards and  further our climate objectives. In addition, mobile data collection systems  for surface scans transform how we capture and analyze information,  significantly enhancing the efficiency and accuracy of data collection at  various facilities. 17 2025 Sustainability Report INTRODUCTION MATERIAL   IS REPURPOSED ENERGY   IS RENEWABLE COMMUNITIES   ARE THRIVING GOVERNANCE  A MORE SUSTAINABLE FLEET WM operates the largest alternative fuel fleet in the industry in North  America, offering a"
"unique opportunity to drive substantial emissions  reduction impact by transitioning a majority of our fleet from diesel to  natural gas. As our alternative fuel fleet continues to grow, we are also  increasing the allocation of RNG to our collection fleet, with the goal  of reaching 100% renewable natural gas (RNG) utilization across our  natural gas fleet by 2026. In 2024, 74% of alternative fuel consumption  was allocated to RNG. This increase was achievable due to our  expanded RNG"
"infrastructure and enhanced production capabilities,  enabling WM to allocate more renewable energy directly to our fleet  while reducing reliance on conventional fossil fuels. To further support fueling our growing natural gas fleet, WM continues  to expand our compressed natural gas (CNG) fueling stations. In addition  to increasing the number of fueling stations, we have implemented an  innovative hub-and-spoke fueling process in certain areas to maximize  the reach of our fueling stations."
"This allows the transfer of large amounts  of CNG from an existing ‘hub’ fueling site via bulk trucking to various  ‘spoke’ locations within the area where a pipeline-supplied natural gas  fueling station would not be feasible.  30% 70% of our collection fleet are  alternative fuel vehicles23 estimated reduction in fleet  emissions since 2021 OUR COLLECTION FLEET 74% of alternative fuel  consumption allocated  to RNG 13,170 alternative fuel vehicles  in collection fleet23 2023 2024 Total"
"collection vehicles24 18,350 18,860 Alternative fuel vehicles in  collection fleet23 12,120 13,170 Alternative fuel vehicles in  collection fleet23 66% 70% Alternative fuel consumption  allocated to RNG 47% 74% Natural gas fueling stations 199 213 18,860 24 Total collection  vehicles LOOKING AHEAD We will continue to focus on  our key levers for emissions  reduction by capping more  landfill acres, applying  more long-term covers and  expanding gas collection  and control systems. We  are also"
"increasing RNG  production and allocation  to WM’s collection fleet. GROWING OUR ALTERNATIVE  FUEL FLEET We continue to explore emerging technologies for our  fleet, such as hydrogen-powered and electric heavy- duty waste collection trucks, to help reduce our carbon  footprint and meet regulatory requirements. Eight electric  heavy-duty collection truck pilots are underway with  different manufacturers and vehicle models across the  country. Significant challenges with heavy-duty electric"
"vehicles currently limit scalability, such as insufficient  range, hauling capacity and charging infrastructure. By testing remote-controlled and autonomous heavy  equipment at our operational sites, we are enhancing  worker health and safety while increasing efficiency to  support our growing business needs.  23 Alternative Fuel Vehicles include all vehicles that run on compressed natural gas (CNG) and liquefied natural gas (LNG) and does not account for on-road hours. 24 Collection Vehicles"
"indicates the number of active vehicles that register more than 600 on-road hours within the reported year. 18 2025 Sustainability Report INTRODUCTION MATERIAL   IS REPURPOSED ENERGY   IS RENEWABLE COMMUNITIES   ARE THRIVING GOVERNANCE  COMMUNITIES ARE THRIVING 3.23 Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) We are empowering people to strengthen resilience in our  workforce and our communities today, to help drive positive  impacts, For Tomorrow®.  At WM, our people are essential to our success, and"
"they thrive  when we prioritize their safety, development and well-being.  We’re building a future-ready workforce by upskilling and  training our teams, providing education opportunities and  evolving our recruitment strategy to align with marketplace  trends and business needs. Likewise, communities and customers succeed when we  work together to address neighbors’ needs. By working  to reduce barriers to employment, enhance access to  education and career opportunities and protect and"
"provide access to green space, we support lasting,  positive change. 68 Certified Wildlife Habitat Council  (WHC) programs 27% of open positions were filled by internal  candidates in 2024 2.6 million people positively impacted through targeted  social impact programs since 2022 19 2025 Sustainability Report INTRODUCTION MATERIAL   IS REPURPOSED ENERGY   IS RENEWABLE COMMUNITIES   ARE THRIVING GOVERNANCE  GET HOME SAFE EVERY DAY At WM, we strive to continuously improve our safety measures to"
"ensure  the well-being of our employees and our communities. From our fleet to  our operational sites, we are guided by our safety vision, Get Home Safe  Every Day. We implement rigorous training programs, conduct frequent  safety audits, maintain proactive maintenance schedules and provide our  employees with industry-leading technology and resources. Additionally,  we continue to enhance the safety of our fleet operations through  investments in collection vehicles, heavy equipment and"
"advanced  mapping technology to help drivers navigate their routes safely. Enhancing Safety for Our Employees Our safety program begins with comprehensive new-hire onboarding  programs and ongoing initiatives to help educate employees on safety  best practices. We embed safety in all our actions through regular  safety communications and by monitoring compliance and assessing  risk potential with leading metrics, such as risk scores and behavior- based safety observations, which assess employee"
"behavior and offer  opportunities for coaching. In 2024, we continued to promote a safer work environment by: •    Developing a root-cause analysis framework to help standardize  our incident investigations with a focus on identifying underlying  causes and improving our processes moving forward •         Completing a Serious Injury and Fatality (SIF) observation pilot in  order to help employees identify and address potential hazards  before they lead to injuries. We will expand the full"
"program once  the pilot project is complete •        Rolling out a system to our compressed natural gas fleet maintenance  facilities which enables remote monitoring and controls to promote  a safer work environment by enabling real-time diagnostics,  troubleshooting and equipment and operations optimization IMPROVING HAZARDOUS  ENERGY CONTROL In 2024, we reinforced our safety vision through proactive  measures and technologies, including the introduction  of a modernized Hazardous Energy"
"Control Program  with centralized training and data tracking to help  minimize injuries related to the release of stored energy  at WM renewable energy facilities. We also integrated  competency inspections and annual program reviews into  a digital system to provide program status tracking for all  involved operations. These enhancements are expected to  enable more robust feature development to better ensure  consistent protections remain in place for tasks requiring  hazardous energy control."
"CONTINUED SAFETY FOCUS In 2024, WM achieved a 6% reduction in overall injuries, a  2% decrease in OSHA recordable injuries and a 2% decline  in Lost Time injuries, compared to 2023. While the number  of incidents is meaningfully decreasing, improvements  on our TRIR have been offset by acquisition activity in  our traditional waste collection operation and high driver  retention and efficiency, which have significantly reduced  total hours. We are confident that the time and resources  dedicated"
"to pursuing our safety commitment will help  with continued progress in the years ahead. Reduce TRIR, targeting 2.0 by 2030; and continued focus on  prevention of serious injuries 2024 PROGRESS 2024 3.0 2021 Baseline 2022 2023 3.23 2030 For more safety metrics, visit  our Sustainability Data Center  and website   SAFETY RECOGNITION Two of our employees received awards from the National Waste  and Recycling Association for their efforts to maintain and  enhance safe operations in the industry:"
"2025 Operator  of the Year 2025 Driver of the Year,  National Roll Off 20 2025 Sustainability Report INTRODUCTION MATERIAL   IS REPURPOSED ENERGY   IS RENEWABLE COMMUNITIES   ARE THRIVING GOVERNANCE  PEOPLE FIRST At WM, we take a people-first approach to the employee journey,  from recruiting top talent and expanding applicant pools, to providing  comprehensive benefits and keeping our teams safe and growing  throughout their careers.  Listening to Our Employees In 2022, we introduced the Voice"
"of the Employee (VOE) survey to  gather valuable feedback and insights. In 2024, 72% of our employees  responded, providing over 31,000 comments to drive decisions that  foster a supportive workplace.  Recruiting & Retaining Great Talent By adapting to meet the needs of our workforce, we strive to attract  top talent, cultivate an inclusive environment and provide development  opportunities to create a workplace where employees can thrive.  Attracting Talent We evolve our recruitment strategy to"
"meet marketplace trends and  business needs. In 2023, we introduced competency-based recruiting  to expand applicant pools and remove employment barriers by targeting  specific knowledge and skills required for select roles. In 2024, we  continued to support a competency-based approach and established  relationships with three top technical schools: Lincoln Tech, WyoTech and  Universal Technical Institute. We offer a tuition reimbursement incentive  for apprentices and recent graduates with one"
"year of experience as  tech assistants and technicians, plus graduating technicians can apply  for open WM roles. WM also supports veterans and military families through focused  recruitment efforts. In 2024, we attended more than 50 veteran  employment events and hired more than 1,400 veterans, 10% of the  year’s new hires. We also started working with a program that allows  service members the chance to gain civilian work experience through  specific industry training, apprenticeships or"
"internships during their last  700 basis point improvement in engagement score since 2023 2024 PROGRESS Voice of the Employee (VOE) Survey 2023 2024 78% 71% As a people-first company, we know our  employees are integral to our success. We are  committed to leading with our core values,  creating a culture of belonging and empowering  our employees and communities with the  resources they need to thrive. Kim Stith, Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer RECOGNIZING OUR TEAMMATES"
"Created in response to employee feedback, our employee- to-employee “Green & Grateful” recognition program  promotes a culture of appreciation, measuring an impact  of almost 32,000 employees receiving at least one  acknowledgment in 2024. A culture that takes time to recognize its  employees is a place where people tend to  stay and work harder. WM Team Member, 2024 VOE survey 7% veteran representation 180 days of service. A pilot program was approved in December 2024  highlighting available"
"jobs, including operations managers, renewable gas  plant managers and others.  Supporting Employees From Day One To enable a strong start, we focus on boosting connection, engagement  and retention from day one. As of January 1, 2025, benefit-eligible  employees receive benefits on their first day. To support new employees,  targeted programs and resources are designed to equip managers with  leadership skills needed to guide employee success from the start. 21 2025 Sustainability Report"
"INTRODUCTION MATERIAL   IS REPURPOSED ENERGY   IS RENEWABLE COMMUNITIES   ARE THRIVING GOVERNANCE  LOOKING AHEAD With a commitment to putting  people first, serving our customers,  operating safely and protecting  the environment, we’re focused on  continuous improvement — enhancing  enterprise-wide safety initiatives,  building current and future leaders,  and supporting employees  throughout their career. TECHNICIAN APPRENTICE PROGRAM Since 2013, WM has used the Technician Apprentice  Program"
"to create career pathways and recruit from  technical schools. Apprentices work paid positions, gain  real-world experience 6 to 12 months before graduation,  and receive benefits including a toolkit, tool allowance  and tuition reimbursement. Graduates can advance to a  technician assistant or technician role. $11.4M of tuition coverage for more than 2,500 participants  through our Your Tomorrow program  Fostering Learning & Development In addition to external recruiting efforts, WM believes in"
"helping our  internal talent grow. Encouraging individual education and skill building  fosters mobility, which enhances employee engagement and boosts  retention. Through continuous investment in growth opportunities at  every level, WM team members are empowered to meet the industry’s  evolving demands by enhancing their skills and knowledge. Through our Your Tomorrow education benefit, we cover tuition, fees  and books for benefit-eligible employees, their spouses and dependents  pursuing"
"select degrees, certificates or high school completion to  support their skill development and career growth. Advancing Human-Centered Leadership WM’s human-centered leadership approach promotes a culture of care,  respect and collaboration that drives individual and organizational  growth. Our programs include pathways for frontline, mid-level and  emerging leaders. Our frontline focused leadership program and  development accelerator are designed to build and strengthen  coaching, development"
"and influencing skills for teams and prepare  high-performing frontline leaders for greater responsibility. In addition,  our human-centered leadership program and emerging leader  accelerator equip participants with skills to inspire teams, navigate  complex challenges and drive success to accelerate leadership journeys. TRADE FOR A LIFETIME Going through the IEP® program has helped  me transition from helping on the back of  a truck and living paycheck to paycheck to  being a team leader and"
"mentor who trains  new WM drivers. This program has enabled  me to purchase a home and ultimately  changed my life. 2024 IEP® participant WM’s Innovative Employment Pathways (IEP)® program  breaks down barriers to employment for disenfranchised  individuals through skills training and collaboration  with nonprofit organizations. In 2024, the program  expanded by eight community-based organizations and  efficacy continued to grow — the completion rate of Job  Readiness and Retention training"
"reached 100% amongst  reported IEP® contingent hires. This supports individual  career pathways and helps WM fill our talent needs.  22 2025 Sustainability Report INTRODUCTION MATERIAL   IS REPURPOSED ENERGY   IS RENEWABLE COMMUNITIES   ARE THRIVING GOVERNANCE  Providing Access to Education At WM, we recognize the important role education plays in creating  opportunities and shaping strong communities. We help enable access  to education by supporting scholarships and developing programs  for"
"grade school to trade school — and beyond. We also invest in  sustainability programs and school green teams that encourage  environmental stewardship at every age. See examples of how we  empower communities through learning.  Learn more about how we provide access  to education in our communities and build a  future-ready workforce  Learn more about how we protect and provide  access to green space by supporting wildlife  preservation and nature programs  Learn more about how we fill gaps in"
"communities by providing essential resources,  time and experience to meet neighbors’ needs  SCHOOL FOOD PANTRY SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES Positively impact 10 million people in our communities through  targeted social impact programs by 2030, using the equivalent  of 2% of our net income25 2024 PROGRESS WM is committed to supporting the communities where we live and  work by providing access to education, protecting and providing  access to green space and filling gaps in communities. To"
"support  these efforts, our For Tomorrow® Champions network brings together  community engagement leaders across the enterprise to help drive  meaningful action and problem solve together to address local needs.  Together, we are driving lasting change. 25 Total annual charitable contributions are compared to the same year’s annual net income. 26 In 2022, we updated our reporting methodology to align with the 2030 goal to positively impact people through targeted social impact programs."
"Reporting reflects programs from 2022 and beyond. $12.8 million to support a variety of  scholarship programs 13,500 acres of green space protected  through certified programs 321,000 meals provided through  holiday giving campaigns 2.6M people positively impacted through targeted  social impact programs since 202226 Giving back is deeply ingrained in our  culture. For over 50 years, our presence in  neighborhoods across North America has  uniquely positioned WM as an integral player  in"
"communities. We drive initiatives that  address unique local needs — including access  to education, green space and opportunities  to encourage meaningful change. Kristine Richmond, Senior Director of Sustainability Impact 10 million 2030 2022 2024 2.6 million people positively impacted since 202226 $27.6M in charitable contributions, equivalent to 1% of 2024  net income contributed to targeted social impact and  workforce development programs 23 2025 Sustainability Report INTRODUCTION MATERIAL"
"IS REPURPOSED ENERGY   IS RENEWABLE COMMUNITIES   ARE THRIVING GOVERNANCE  Filling Gaps in Communities WM works to help address unmet needs in our communities by  providing access to essential resources, such as food and clothing.  Through contributions and volunteering, we aim to help provide our  neighbors the foundation needed to succeed.  Last year, teams supported nonprofits across North America, including  Second Harvest Heartland and programs like the Upper Midwest team’s  Less Waste,"
"Fuller Plates; a Canstruction holiday event in Canada; a  Martin Luther King Jr. 12 Days of Service campaign in the Great Lakes  region; and others. Collectively, WM donated and packed thousands of  meals for people battling hunger.  LOOKING AHEAD We are committed to  enhancing our intentional  strategy to positively  impact people, including  expanding education  programs and green  collar career pathways,  and building on our  conservation initiatives  to yield social and  environmental"
"benefits. Protecting & Providing Access to Green Space WM aims to maximize the potential of our land by transforming green  spaces and re-purposing them in unexpected ways. By creating wildlife  habitats, establishing outdoor learning labs and planting locally specific  microhabitats, WM teams work with local organizations to help foster  ecosystems and enhance educational experiences. Over the past three  decades, we’ve exemplified our commitment to biodiversity through  nearly 70 programs that"
"help protect 13,500 acres of habitat, certified  by Wildlife Habitat Council (WHC) and powered by Tandem Global. This  dedication earned us their Corporate Conservation Leadership Award in  2024, which was celebrated alongside El Sobrante Landfill and Wildlife  Preserve’s team who earned the Gold Program of the Year for their  award-winning Rocky Areas project. Local teams work with a range of organizations to help steward healthy  ecosystems within our communities. For example, the WM Chicago"
"team  worked with Urban Rivers, a unique nonprofit dedicated to transforming  urban riverways into wildlife sanctuaries and green space, to assist in the  installation of floating wetlands along the walkway to allow residents and  visitors to access the Chicago River and create thriving wildlife habitats.  WM volunteers also joined Friends of the Chicago River, the only  organization solely dedicated to the health of the Chicago-Calumet River  System, for their 2024 Chicago River Day where"
"volunteers cleaned up  and restored the river system. Responding to Disasters Driven by a deep spirit of responsibility, our teams lend our operational  excellence and people-first mentality to help restore communities in  times of need.  Following Hurricanes Helene and Milton, teams across the Southeast  went beyond providing essential services. In Tennessee, teams used  a roll-off container converted to an outdoor grill to serve nearly 200  people affected by Hurricane Helene. In Florida,"
"teams hosted a Can If  You Can campaign, donating more than 9,400 food items. Supporting  those equipped to respond, WM contributed $1 million collectively to  American Red Cross, Florida Disaster Fund, Samaritan’s Purse, United  Way of the CSRA and United Way of the Coastal Empire for hurricane  recovery, and $250,000 to the American Red Cross to support people  devastated by East Texas floods. We also leverage our operational expertise to help train local authorities  for emergency response."
"For example, we provided specialized training  on natural gas fire response for the Los Angeles Fire Department,  teaching firefighters skills that were subsequently used to help respond  to the 2025 wildfires. In 2024, Minnesota experienced 8.9 million  food shelf visits — a historic high. With  WM’s assistance, Second Harvest Heartland  worked to deliver food, stability and hope to  food-insecure neighbors. Their generosity  alone helped distribute 22,500 meals into  the community and helped"
"us innovate and  strengthen our programs and services amidst  record levels of need. Second Harvest Heartland 24 2025 Sustainability Report INTRODUCTION MATERIAL   IS REPURPOSED ENERGY   IS RENEWABLE COMMUNITIES   ARE THRIVING GOVERNANCE  GOVERNANCE Do The Right Thing. The Right Way. At WM, we believe that success is based on more than just results; it’s  also how we achieve them. Integrity is the foundation of how we operate  at WM. We are committed to being accountable, honest, trustworthy"
"and ethical in all we do and compliant with applicable laws. Our Board of Directors and Senior Leadership Team are responsible for guiding  our strategy, overseeing our progress and ensuring we make decisions  rooted in sustainability and ethics. Behaving Ethically We strive to operate responsibly at every step in our value chain.  Our Code of Conduct (Code) outlines how we treat each other and  conduct our business, and the Supplier Code of Conduct (Supplier  Code) sets expectations for"
"supplier conduct, including human rights  and environmental protection provisions. Both are aligned with the Ten  Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and internationally  recognized human rights standards prohibiting forced or child labor.  The Code provides employees with resources that support our  expectations for employee conduct, including guidelines on anti- corruption, anti-bribery and anti-harassment. New hires complete  training on the Code during onboarding, and all"
"employees complete  refresher training annually. Consultants, contractors, vendors and other  business partners are also expected to act in a manner consistent with  our Code when conducting business on behalf of the company. Similarly,  suppliers are required to agree to the Supplier Code during onboarding. Our SPEAK UP culture encourages employees to raise concerns and  seek guidance without fear of retaliation. Employees can report any  issues or concerns to their supervisor, Human Resources,"
"Compliance  and Ethics, or any member of management. Employees and third parties  can also report concerns anonymously via a multi-lingual third-party  Integrity Helpline available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY  INTO COMPENSATION PLANS Since 2023, quantifiable sustainability criteria have been  integrated into the executive compensation incentive  structure to support our long-term business objectives  and sustainability ambitions. In 2024, annual cash  incentive"
"payouts were calculated based on financial  performance measures that could be increased or  decreased by up to 10%, depending on achievement  of sustainability targets. These calculations were based  on quantifiable performance criteria. 2024 Sustainability Modifier  Performance Measures •        Safety  •       Employee Engagement •   Circularity     •      Climate Visit sustainability.wm.com  for more awards and  recognition   Recognized as one of  Ethisphere’s 2025 World’s  Most Ethical"
"Companies Sustainability A-Z provides  additional information and  policies on all key topics  SUSTAINABILITY DISCLOSURES Disclosures: Sustainability Hub hosts  updates on our sustainability  initiatives and our  sustainability disclosures  Sustainability  Data Center Climate Brief SASB GRI 25 2025 Sustainability Report INTRODUCTION MATERIAL   IS REPURPOSED ENERGY   IS RENEWABLE COMMUNITIES   ARE THRIVING GOVERNANCE  FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS WM, or the Company, from time to time, provides"
"estimates of financial  and other data, comments on expectations relating to future periods and  makes statements of opinion, view or belief about current and future  events, which may be identified by the use of words such as “target,”  “plan,” “expect,” “forecast,” “future,” “commit,” “intend,” “potential,”  “estimate,” and similar expressions that contemplate future events.  Except for historical information contained herein, the statements in this  report are forward-looking statements that"
"are made pursuant to the  Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act  of 1995. Examples of forward-looking statements in this report include,  but are not limited to: sustainability and business goals, including those  relating to measuring and reducing our greenhouse gas emissions,  recycling, renewable energy, energy efficiency, employee engagement,  safety, community engagement and charitable contributions; plans  and strategies to achieve such goals; future"
"execution of and planned,  projected or estimated investments and capital expenditures in strategic  priorities, including sustainability projects; timing, outcomes, including  production increases and capacity expansions, and benefits from  investment in strategic priorities and sustainability projects; business  and growth plans; and any other future events, performance or results.  You should view these statements with caution and not place any undue  reliance on any forward-looking"
"statements. They are based on the  facts and circumstances known to the Company as of the date the  statements are made. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks  and uncertainties that could cause actual results to be materially different  from those set forth in such forward-looking statements, including  but not limited to failure to implement our optimization, automation,  growth and cost savings initiatives and overall business strategy; failure  to obtain the results anticipated"
"from strategic initiatives, investments,  acquisitions or new lines of business; failure to identify acquisition  targets, consummate and integrate acquisitions, including our acquisition  of Stericycle, Inc.; environmental and other regulations, including  developments related to emerging contaminants, gas emissions,  renewable energy, extended producer responsibility and our natural  gas fleet; significant environmental, safety or other incidents resulting  in liabilities or brand damage;"
"failure to obtain and maintain necessary  permits due to land scarcity, public opposition or otherwise; diminishing  landfill capacity, resulting in increased costs and the need for disposal  alternatives; failure to attract, hire and retain key team members and a  high quality workforce; increases in labor costs due to union organizing  activities or changes in wage and labor-related regulations; disruption  and costs resulting from severe weather and destructive climate events;  failure to"
"achieve our sustainability goals or execute on our sustainability- related strategy and initiatives, including within planned timelines  or anticipated budgets due to disruptions, delays, cost increases or  changes in environmental or tax regulations; focus on, and regulation of,  environmental and sustainability-related disclosures, which could lead  to increased costs, risk of non-compliance, brand damage and litigation  risk related to our sustainability efforts; macroeconomic conditions,"
"geopolitical conflict and large-scale market disruption resulting in labor,  supply chain and transportation constraints, inflationary cost pressures  and fluctuations in commodity prices, fuel and other energy costs;  increased competition; pricing actions; impacts from international trade  restrictions and tariffs; competitive disposal alternatives, diversion of  waste from landfills and declining waste volumes; weakness in general  economic conditions and capital markets, including potential"
"for an  economic recession; instability of financial institutions; adoption of  new tax legislation; fuel shortages; failure to develop and protect new  technology; failure of technology to perform as expected; failure to  prevent, detect and address cybersecurity incidents or comply with  privacy regulations; inability to adapt and manage the benefits and risks  of artificial intelligence; negative outcomes of litigation or governmental  proceedings; and decisions or developments that result in"
"impairment  charges. Please also see Waste Management, Inc.’s filings with the  SEC, including Part I, Item 1A of its most recently filed Annual Report  on Form 10-K, and any subsequently filed Quarterly Reports on Form  10-Q, for additional information regarding these and other risks and  uncertainties applicable to its business. The forward-looking statements  in this report speak only as of the date of the preparation of this report,  and the Company assumes no obligation to update any"
"forward-looking  statement, including financial estimates and forecasts, whether as a result  of future events, circumstances or developments or otherwise. Many of the assumptions, standards, methodologies, metrics and  measurements used in preparing this report continue to evolve and  are based on management assumptions believed to be reasonable  at the time of preparation but should not be considered guarantees.  There are inherent uncertainties in providing such information, due  to the"
"complexity and novelty of many methodologies established for  collecting, measuring, and analyzing environmental and sustainability- related data. In some cases, the information in this report is prepared,  or based on information prepared, by government agencies or third- party vendors and consultants and is not independently verified by the  Company. Third-party information should not be interpreted as any  form of guarantee or assurance of accuracy, future results or trends,  and the Company"
"makes no representation or warranty as to third-party  information. Unless otherwise provided, the information contained in this  report is expressly not incorporated by reference into any filing of the  Company made with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or  any other filing, report, application, or statement made by the Company  to any federal, state, tribal, or local governmental authority. We may have  used definitions of materiality in the course of creating this report that do"
"not coincide with or rise to the level of the definition of materiality for the  purposes of U.S. federal securities laws. 26 2025 Sustainability Report INTRODUCTION MATERIAL   IS REPURPOSED ENERGY   IS RENEWABLE COMMUNITIES   ARE THRIVING GOVERNANCE  For more information visit:  sustainability.wm.com"
