"Delivering  Shared Value FY2025 ESG Report  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Walmart’s Shared  Value Priorities Table of Contents Introduction 3  Our Company 4  A Message From Our CSO 5  Our Shared Value Approach 7  About Our Reporting Opportunity 10  Our People 22  Supplier Opportunity Sustainability 26 Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions 37  Regeneration of Natural Resources 45 Waste: Circular Economy 53  People in Supply Chains 57  Animal"
"Welfare 59 Product Supply Chain Sustainability Community 63 Serving Communities 68 Safer, Healthier Products 71  Disaster Preparedness and Response Ethics & Integrity 76 Corporate Governance 80 Ethics and Compliance 87 Responsible Use of Data and Technology 90 Human Rights 96 Responsible Engagement in Public Policy Appendix 101 ESG Data Table 107 ISSB: International Financial Reporting  Standard S2 (IFRS S2) Climate-related  Disclosures Index FY2025 ESG Report  2  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY"
"SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Our Company A Message From Our CSO Our Shared Value Approach About Our Reporting Our Company Walmart is a people-led, tech-powered omnichannel retailer dedicated  to helping people save money and live better. Our Values •       Respect the individual •        Act with integrity •    Serve our customers and members •       Strive for excellence How Walmart Creates Value for Stakeholders • Customers: Convenient access to quality, affordable"
"products  and services • Associates: Purpose-driven work, opportunity for good jobs and  upward mobility, and belonging at Walmart and beyond • Shareholders: Goals and investments built into our financial  framework, and capital allocation viewed through the lens of ROI • Suppliers: Access to customers and support for development  and growth • Business Partners: Access to and understanding of engaged  customers for our sellers, advertisers, and ecosystem partners Our Business in FY2025"
"Omnichannel retailer  serving approximately 270 million customers each week Approximately 2.1 million associates More than 10,750 stores and eCommerce websites  in 19 countries Generated $681 billion in total revenues “ Walmart is an “and” company. People and  technology; innovation and execution; growth  and sustainability. By making purposeful decisions  and prioritizing investments that strengthen  our competitive advantages, we can create  shared value—meaning value for our business  while"
"enabling positive outcomes for people,  communities, and the world around us. We strive  to create meaningful, lasting impact by being a  people-led employer of choice, a tech-powered  retailer with a resilient, sustainable supply  chain, and a trusted company for all we serve.” Doug McMillon President and Chief Executive Officer Walmart Inc. FY2025 ESG Report  3  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Our Company A Message From Our CSO Our Shared Value"
"Approach About Our Reporting A Message  From Our Chief  Sustainability Officer At Walmart, our purpose—saving people money so they can live better—guides everything  we do. We strive to fulfill our purpose in ways that create shared value—delivering business  performance by creating value for our customers, associates, suppliers, communities, and  the planet. As a people-led, tech-powered omnichannel retailer, shared value starts with providing  convenient access to affordable, quality goods and"
"services to customers around the world.  It also means offering inclusive, economic opportunity to our associates and suppliers;  enhancing the sustainability of our business and product value chains; strengthening the  resilience of communities we serve; and upholding the highest standards of ethics and  integrity as a business operating in 19 countries around the world. We believe that a shared value approach helps build trust, drive innovation, lower costs,  manage risk, and fuel long-term"
"growth—enabling us better serve people and communities  while adapting to a rapidly evolving world. Some highlights: Opportunity: We believe in providing pathways to success for our associates, and we  take a skills-based approach to hiring and advancement. For example, approximately  75% of our U.S. salaried store, club, and supply chain management started their careers  in hourly positions, and we have prioritized development of professional growth paths  from entry-level to leadership roles"
"in areas such as retail management, maintenance,  pharmacy, and tech. We expanded our Live Better U beyond four-year degrees to include  thousands of short-form courses and credentials for associates at no cost to them,  including trade certifications and specialized credentials relevant for in-demand jobs at  Walmart and beyond. As of mid-year FY2026, our average hourly frontline wage is more  than $18/hour, nearly 28% higher than five years ago, and more than 860,000 associates  now have"
"retirement savings in our 401(k) plans. We also provide our suppliers  opportunities for growth. For example, since 2021 we’ve sourced an incremental  $176 billion in goods made, assembled, or grown in the U.S. Last year, more than 100 small-  and medium-sized businesses secured deals at our U.S. Open Call event, where potential  suppliers pitch product ideas to Walmart and Sam’s Club merchants. Sustainability: Our sustainability strategy is designed to support resilient, responsible  growth,"
"addressing complex sustainability challenges across our operations and industry  value chains. In 2024, we neared an important milestone toward our climate goals: nearly 50%  of our global electricity needs were supplied by renewable sources. Although we anticipate  missing our 2025 emissions target, our absolute emissions and emissions intensity are  down meaningfully from our 2015 baseline. Through business and philanthropic initiatives  in collaboration with many suppliers and Non-"
"Governmental Organizations (NGOs), we’ve  made significant progress toward our sustainable commodities goals for people and planet.  And while business growth and market dynamics have challenged our packaging targets  (for example, recycled content), we have succeeded in reducing plastic packaging intensity  (material used per dollar of net sales) and in designing 82% of our private brand packaging  for recycling. Community: Walmart thrives when communities thrive. Our core business aims to"
"provide convenient access to affordable, quality products and services while supporting  economic vitality through jobs, sourcing and local investment. We also support local  needs through charitable giving, which exceeded $2 billion in cash and in-kind (primarily  food) from Walmart and the Walmart Foundation in FY2025. Over the past three years,  we’ve contributed $55.6 million in cash and in-kind to disaster preparedness and response,  helping strengthen community resilience in the face of"
"crisis. Ethics & Integrity: Trust is the foundation of our business. We are committed to acting  with integrity, promoting ethical conduct, and ensuring strong governance throughout  our business, including our engagement in public policy, the responsible use of data and  technology, and upholding respect for human rights. Progress is not always straightforward or linear. It requires partnership across sectors,  industries, and communities among groups with different perspectives and priorities."
"We often encounter gaps or barriers that require innovation in technology, infrastructure,  or policy. But with collaboration, creativity, and tenacity, we can facilitate positive, lasting  improvements for our business and for society over time. Thank you to our associates, suppliers, and community partners for your insights, energy,  and partnership; you help make Walmart a better company and bring us closer to a world  where everyone can live better. Kathleen McLaughlin Executive Vice"
"President and Chief Sustainability Officer Walmart Inc. FY2025 ESG Report  4  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Our Company A Message From Our CSO Our Shared Value Approach About Our Reporting Our Shared  Value Approach Identifying Priority Issues Walmart’s shared value approach is rooted in our strategy and is focused on maximizing  long-term value creation by addressing the most important stakeholder needs in  innovative and effective ways. We have"
"organized our shared value priorities into four  leadership themes: Opportunity, Sustainability, Community, and Ethics & Integrity. We conducted our first formal ESG priority1 assessment in 2015 and refreshed it in 2021,  gathering insights on more than 50 topics based on their relevance to our business,  importance to stakeholders, and Walmart’s ability to make an impact. We continually  reassess our priorities, adjusting as necessary to help ensure they reflect evolving  expectations and"
"remain relevant to our business. Opportunity: We believe that promoting economic opportunity helps Walmart attract  and retain the talent we need to run our business, respond to customer needs, and  promote economic resilience in the places where we operate. Our approach includes  creating opportunities for Walmart associates, our suppliers, workers in supply chains  and the communities we serve. We offer good entry-level jobs in addition to multiple  career pathways; endeavor to cultivate a"
"culture of belonging—rooted in respect for the  individual—where associates and customers feel seen, supported, connected, and heard;  and provide tens of thousands of local, national, and global suppliers the opportunity  to grow with us. Sustainability: Walmart’s sustainability efforts endeavor to create and preserve  long‑term business value through increasing the efficiency and resilience of our  operations, promoting surety of supply, sourcing responsibly, and enhancing our"
"product assortment. With respect to people, we aim to respect the dignity of people  throughout our supply chain, create economic opportunity for people working in  supply chains, and sell safer, healthier products. With respect to the environment, our  efforts aim to enhance the sustainability of product supply chains; preserve, protect,  and restore nature; reduce waste; procure renewable sources of energy; and reduce  greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Community: We believe that Walmart thrives"
"in strong, resilient communities, and we  endeavor to help communities thrive. We aim to strengthen communities by providing  convenient access to affordable, quality goods and services through our omnichannel  retail model and everyday low prices; contributing to the economic vitality of communities  by providing quality jobs, training, and career paths; investing in local suppliers; and  supporting organizations and causes that matter to our customers and associates. Ethics & Integrity: We"
"believe that people want to work for and do business with  a company they can trust, and Walmart works to create a culture that inspires trust  with our stakeholders. We seek to achieve this by focusing on promoting ethics  and compliance, governance and oversight, responsibly engaging in public policy  activities, using data and technology responsibly, and respecting human rights. Aligning on Aspirations and Outcomes We analyze key business value drivers and relevant societal systems to"
"determine  outcomes aligned with shared value. We then identify key performance indicators and  metrics to track progress. For example, we aspire to source responsibly and act as a catalyst of positive  transformation for people working in consumer product supply chains, as we believe  that will strengthen our supply chain directly and the capacity of product supply chains  as a whole. We measure progress by looking at outcomes from responsible sourcing  audits and remediation activities,"
"impacts of initiatives in higher-risk supply chains, and  the depth of supplier engagement on topics like responsible recruitment. ESG and Shared Value Governance Leadership of our Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) and shared value  initiatives starts with our CEO and executive leadership, with oversight from our  Board committees, and cascades across our enterprise. Walmart’s Chief Sustainability  Officer (CSO) helps define the agenda and provides dedicated management and  oversight"
"of Walmart’s global ESG goals and initiatives. The CSO updates and  receives feedback from the Walmart executive leadership team, as well as the Board’s  Nominating and Governance Committee, on ESG strategies and priorities at least  annually. Read more in the Corporate Governance section. Walmart’s Shared Value Priorities Opportunity Our People Supplier Opportunity Sustainability Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions  Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in"
"Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Community  Serving Communities Safer, Healthier Products Disaster Preparedness and Response Ethics & Integrity Corporate Governance  Ethics and Compliance  Responsible Use of Data and Technology Human Rights Responsible Engagement in Public Policy 1    Walmart uses the terms “ESG priority” and “shared value priority” in a manner similar to the way other organizations may refer to their “material” ESG issues. The term is intended to"
"cover those issues which are the most relevant to our business and most important to our stakeholders. FY2025 ESG Report  5  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Our Company A Message From Our CSO Our Shared Value Approach About Our Reporting Advancing Practices We develop policies, practices, and tactics to advance our value-creation  aspirations, guided by the three factors outlined below. For example, when determining which practices will help us best"
"achieve an  outcome of belonging in our business, we consider: •     Relevance to our business: Whether the activity will improve service to  customers (referring to customers and members); improve our ability to attract,  engage, develop, and retain associates; and deliver returns that justify  the investment •    Importance to building and maintaining stakeholder trust: Whether the  activities are compliant and whether they bring people together without  divisiveness •  Walmart’s ability to"
"influence a positive outcome: Whether we’re clear on  the outcome we’re seeking and whether we can measure and evaluate the  effectiveness of the activity in driving toward that outcome. Stakeholder Engagement We prioritize open, ongoing engagement with a wide range of stakeholders—each  bringing valuable perspectives that help shape and evolve our approaches. Our engagement methods vary depending on the stakeholder group and the  nature of the issue—we connect through industry collaborations,"
"multi-stakeholder  forums, community outreach, and direct one-on-one conversations, among other  forums. By factoring stakeholder input into our strategies and efforts, we can better  align our actions with societal needs, support business growth, and help strengthen  the communities and systems we all depend on. Transparent Disclosures Finally, transparency cultivates trust, and we regularly publish information on our  priorities, aspirations, strategies, practices, and outcomes. Beyond the"
"information available in this report, ESG information appears in filings with  the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including Annual Reports and  Proxy Statements, and issue-specific reports. We also submit certain information to  major ESG raters and participate in widely used disclosure regimes, such as CDP. Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Priorities How We Engage Customers Opportunity: Associate wages, benefits, upskilling, belonging, veteran hiring, local sourcing"
"Sustainability: Packaging, waste, sustainable sourcing, energy Community: Access to affordable products and services, disaster, and hunger relief Ethics & Integrity: Safety, privacy, consumer protection, food and product safety, ethics In-person and email, phone, and call center communication Surveys and sentiment monitoring Social media engagement Associates Opportunity: Wages, benefits, scheduling, training, promotions, belonging Sustainability: Operational waste, product and packaging waste,"
"natural resource conservation Community: Local giving, volunteerism, disaster and hunger relief Ethics & Integrity: Workplace safety, ethics Team meetings, leadership visits, listening sessions Internal platforms Associate Engagement Surveys Confidential resources like Open Door and ethics channels Suppliers Opportunity: Growth and local sourcing Sustainability: Product and packaging waste, natural resource conservation, energy and  emissions, supply chain transparency, responsible recruitment,"
"working conditions Community: Community engagement, access to food, products, and services Ethics & Integrity: Marketplace integrity, cybersecurity, consumer protection, human rights,  ethics and compliance Sharing expectations and challenges for products, packaging, and  business practices Collaborating on product and service innovation Forums like the Supplier Growth Forum Communities Opportunity: Associate wages, benefits, upskilling, workforce development Sustainability: Packaging waste,"
"energy Community: Access to affordable products and services, disaster and hunger relief Ethics & Integrity: Safety, privacy, consumer protection, food and product safety, ethics, taxes Government & Community Relations teams engaging local leaders Global Security Operations Center (GSOC) coordinating crisis response Store leaders building local partnerships Community feedback informing grantmaking efforts Ongoing dialogue with stakeholders Shareholders Opportunity: Human capital strategy and"
"performance Sustainability: Climate risk and opportunity management, supply chain resiliency, waste Community: Product access and affordability, customer and community safety Ethics & Integrity: Policy and advocacy, human rights in supply chains, consumer protection,  corporate governance, data security and cybersecurity Formal communications through earnings materials, SEC filings,  proxy statements, ESG reports, and news releases Events like earnings calls, investor conferences, and"
"shareholder  outreach programs One-on-one engagement with individual shareholders Civil Society  (NGOs,  Advisory  Councils, and  Grantees) Opportunity: Associate pay and benefits, engagement, safety, upskilling and mobility, belonging Sustainability: Emissions mitigation, nature, waste, animal welfare, people in supply chains Community: Food security, community engagement Ethics & Integrity: Ethics and compliance, human rights, safety policy and advocacy, supply  chain compliance Collaborating"
"with NGOs and advisory councils Participating in trade groups and industry associations Maintaining transparency, accountability, and ethical conduct FY2025 ESG Report  6  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Our Company A Message From Our CSO Our Shared Value Approach About Our Reporting About Our Reporting Walmart has reported on a wide range of ESG issues since 2005. Our reporting is focused  on our priority ESG issues—those that we believe are the"
"most relevant to our business  and important to our stakeholders. Scope Walmart’s FY2025 reporting on ESG matters was published in September 2025 and  reflects activities and initiatives in our fiscal year (FY) 2025 (February 1, 2024—January 31,  2025), unless otherwise noted. Calendar years (CY) are noted in four-digit format. All references to “Walmart” in our ESG reporting are to Walmart Inc., a Delaware  corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries that were subsidiaries during the"
"reporting  period, excluding all acquired eCommerce subsidiaries, businesses, platforms, and/or  marketplaces, unless otherwise noted. Financial information referenced in our ESG  reporting reflects the scope of Walmart Inc.’s consolidated financial statements, unless  otherwise noted. This report also covers some activities of the Walmart Foundation, a  separately incorporated Delaware charitable private foundation. “Walmart.org” is used to  refer to the collective philanthropy of Walmart Inc."
"and the Walmart Foundation. Our reporting is guided by frameworks such as the Sustainability Accounting Standards  Board (SASB), the International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) S2 Climate-related  Disclosures (which succeeds the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures  (TCFD)), Task Force on Nature-related Financial Disclosures (TNFD), and Global Reporting  Initiative (GRI) Standards. We also report through programs such as CDP, a global  environmental disclosure system. Our"
"GHG emissions footprint estimates  are calculated in alignment with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. We received external assurance from a third party with respect to certain emissions  information included in our reporting. We did not seek or receive external assurance from  third parties with respect to other information, although in certain instances third parties  assisted in the process of collecting, analyzing, and calculating the information presented. Figures in this report and their"
"accompanying footnotes have been rounded, where applicable. From time to time, we may adjust our reporting to account for updated data or structural  changes such as acquisitions, divestments, or other organizational changes. This may  result in data reported in this Report not corresponding to results reported through  other reporting channels or in prior years’ reporting. For years in which a restatement  occurs, we will note the restatement and corresponding impact if relevant. If restated"
"figures are reported and a long-term goal is in place, those restated figures will be applied  retroactively to adjust the baseline year accordingly. This ensures consistency and  comparability over time in tracking progress toward our goals. Forward-Looking Statements The ESG Report, ESG Data Table, and ESG Special Reports, collectively “ESG Reporting”,  do not cover all information about our business, and inclusion of information therein  is not an indication that the subject or information is"
"material to Walmart’s business or  operating results for purposes of U.S. securities laws and regulations. Statements other  than statements of historical or current facts, including statements and images about  our ESG targets, goals, aspirations, commitments and programs, and other business  plans, initiatives, and objectives are forward-looking statements and are based on  Walmart management’s current assumptions and expectations. These statements are  typically accompanied by the words"
"“aim,” “ambition,” “anticipate,” “aspire,” “believe,”  “can,” “commit,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “goal,” “hope,” “intend,” “may,” “on track,”  “plan,” “predict,” “project,” “strive,” “target,” “will,” “would,” or other similar words. All such  statements are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking  statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as  amended. Our actual future results, including the achievement of our"
"targets, goals, or  commitments, could differ materially from our projected results as the result of a variety  of factors, including, but not limited to, changes in circumstances, assumptions not being  realized, or other risks, uncertainties, and factors, many of which are outside of our control.  The most important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our forward- looking statements are set forth in our description of risk factors included in Part I, Item 1A,  Risk"
"Factors of our Form 10-K and in subsequent filings with the Securities and Exchange  Commission (SEC); they also include the challenges, assumptions, and dependencies  identified in our ESG Reporting. We urge you to consider all of the risks, uncertainties,  and factors identified above or discussed in our ESG Reporting in evaluating the forward- looking statements therein. Walmart cannot assure you that the results reflected or  implied by any forward-looking statement will be realized or, even"
"if substantially realized,  that those results will have the forecasted or expected consequences and effects.  Unless expressly stated otherwise, the forward-looking statements in our ESG Reporting  are made as of the relevant effective date for the report at issue, and we undertake no  obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent  events or circumstances. Standards of measurement and performance made in reference  to the goals, aspirations, and"
"objectives referred to in our ESG Reporting are developing  and based on protocols, processes, and assumptions that continue to evolve and are  subject to change in the future, and no assurances can be given that any plan, initiative,  projection, goal, commitment, expectation, or prospect set forth in the ESG Reporting can  or will be achieved. For more information or to provide comments, please contact us at: ESG_WMT@walmart.com. Summary of Critical ESG Calculation  Methodologies and Data"
"Definitions The methodologies and data definitions outlined in this section represent the primary  approaches used in the calculation and reporting of our key ESG metrics. While they  cover the majority of our ESG data, they are not intended to be exhaustive. Additional ESG  metrics may utilize different methodologies or data sources, and where applicable, those  explanations are provided in the relevant sections of this report. Emissions Reporting Walmart Inc. calculates its GHG emissions"
"footprint estimates in alignment with the  Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard as well as  the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard, collectively  the “GHG Protocol.” Annually, Walmart engages with a third party to conduct assurance  over its Scope 1 & 2 emissions calculations aligning with the ISO 14064-3 standard. See,  2024 Limited Assurance Statement. With guidance provided by the GHG Protocol,  Walmart uses a hybrid approach for"
"its calculation methodology: reported emissions are  based on a combination of measured and estimated data. For information about Project Gigaton—including estimated cumulative emissions  reduced, avoided or sequestered, as well as land and ocean spatial area associated with  supplier sustainability efforts—please refer to Project Gigaton Accounting Methodology. Nature Reporting Nature: Acres of Land Reporting Walmart Inc. calculates the total acres of land engaged in more sustainable"
"management,  protection, and/or restoration. This total includes: (a) acres of land under more sustainable  management for the production of priority commodities, as reported by suppliers; (b) acres  of land protected and/or restored, as reported by suppliers; (c) total acres conserved through  the Acres for America program; and (d) acres more sustainably managed, protected, and/or restored through Walmart Foundation grants, as reported by grantees. For (a), suppliers  typically report commodity"
"volumes/practices through Project Gigaton, which are converted  to acres (where necessary) using spatial factors found in our Project Gigaton Accounting  Methodology (see “Nature pillar table: Spatial conversion factors”). For additional information  on sustainable management practices by commodity, please refer to our individual  commodity reports. FY2025 ESG Report  7  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Our Company A Message From Our CSO Our Shared"
"Value Approach About Our Reporting Nature: Square Miles of Ocean Reporting Walmart Inc. calculates the square miles of ocean engaged in more sustainable management,   protection, and/or restoration. This total includes: (a) square miles of ocean under more  sustainable management for seafood commodities, as reported by suppliers; and (b) square  miles of ocean protected and/or restored, as reported by suppliers. For (a) above, where  suppliers report seafood volumes through Sustainable Fisheries"
"Partnership’s Seafood  Metrics Platform, the volumes are converted to square miles using spatial factors found in our  Project Gigaton Accounting Methodology (see “Nature pillar table: Spatial conversion factors”).  For additional information on sustainable management practices by commodity, please refer  to our individual commodity reports. Waste Reporting Operational and Zero Waste Reporting Walmart Inc. calculates its operational waste and zero waste data and definition of “zero  waste” in"
"alignment with the business principles from Zero Waste International Alliance  (ZWIA)—including achievement of 90% or more diversion of all discarded resources from  landfills, incinerators, and the environment. Our Zero Waste goal and reporting scope  includes waste materials and products generated in Walmart’s owned facilities and its  operations (e.g., stores, clubs, warehouses, return centers, truck maintenance garages).  Waste figures are based on review of materials handling and waste"
"diversion processes, as  reported by waste vendors, food banks, and facilities. In cases where certified or otherwise  documented weights were not available, they have been estimated based on waste  audits, historical data, and extrapolation for similar facilities in size and scope. The Zero  De-Pack initiative supports waste diversion but not our food loss and waste (FLW) goal.  Previously, some organic waste was used as cattle feed (counted as FLW reduction); it is  now composted or"
"anaerobically digested—no longer FLW reduction per the Food Loss  and Waste Protocol’s Food Loss and Waste Accounting Standard (“FLW Standard”), but  still diversion per ZWIA. Food Waste Reporting Walmart Inc. calculates its food waste intensity data in alignment with the FLW Standard.  The intensity is calculated as food waste weight divided by food sales for the corresponding  period. Packaging weight and associated inedible parts are removed from the waste  calculations. Packaging Reporting"
"Walmart Inc. calculates its private brand packaging measurement by weight based on  supplier responses to a survey or submitted data through Walmart’s web-based packaging  compliance system. Proxy data is used to estimate packaging for suppliers that did  not complete the survey, did not enter data into the compliance system, or provided  unusable data. These proxies are intended to approximate the amount of packaging those  suppliers or markets may use, helping to present a more complete view"
"of Walmart’s overall  packaging footprint. The proxy calculation is based on supplier participation in the survey  as a percentage of private brand net sales, combined with known packaging data. Data  pertaining to How2Recycle reporting is not influenced by or based on proxy data. Private Brand Plastic Packaging Walmart Inc.’s private brand plastic packaging calculations include all private brand plastic  packaging and operational packaging, as well as single-use and reusable plastic bags. For"
"the private brand packaging survey, suppliers were instructed to use their most recent  12-month period with available data. If they reported in the previous year, they were asked to  use the same reporting period to avoid gaps or overlaps with prior submissions. Suppliers  reporting through Walmart’s web-based packaging compliance system are asked to keep  their packaging data up to date throughout the year. For suppliers that did not complete  the survey or provided unusable data, proxy data"
"is used to provide a complete estimate of  global private brand packaging. A market-level approach was applied in developing these  proxy calculations.  Recyclability and Design for Recycling Walmart Inc. utilizes the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s definition of recyclability for purposes of  measuring progress against our goals and aspirations. Additional details on this definition may  be found in our Recycling Playbook. We also engage suppliers on what constitutes “Design  for Recycling”"
"through supplier training and guidance materials. Our People Reporting Global: Aggregate of International and U.S. data. Data for the U.S. is as of January 24, 2025— the final pay period of the fiscal year. Data for international markets is on a calendar year-end  basis. Global workforce demographic figures are based on the physical location of associates. United States: All 50 states and Puerto Rico. International: Africa, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India, and Mexico. Africa"
"(Botswana, Eswatini, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa,  Uganda, and Zambia) Central America (Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua) Figures for periods prior to FY2025 exclude associates in India and corporate associates  based in other countries. Non-Management •     U.S.: All hourly associates, including temporary associates. •  International: Determined using Hay Points scale with non-management‑level positions  being those scored between"
"0–437. Roles would include but are not limited to  administrative and frontline field associates. Excludes certain categories or locations of  associates where comprehensive data was not available. Management •     U.S.: All salaried, exempt associates. •        International: Determined using Hay Points scale with management‑level positions  being those scored between 438–1,260. Roles would include but are not limited to  Senior Directors, Directors, Managers, and field managers. Excludes"
"certain categories  or locations of associates where comprehensive data was not available. Officer  •   U.S.: President, Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, and Vice President positions. •       International: Determined using Hay Points scale with officer‑level positions being  those scored between 1,261–7,000. Total Associate Count: Associate data includes the number of Walmart associates  supporting the listed retail markets. Additional Walmart associates outside the U.S. are"
"encompassed in the total associate counts for Global and International. People of Color: An aggregate composite of U.S. associates including African American/ Black, Asian, Latina/Latino, Native American/Alaskan Native, Native Hawaiian/Pacific  Islander, and individuals of two or more races. Minimum Age: Minimum age for employment at Walmart Inc. or one of its subsidiary  companies in the United States is at least 16 years old. Average Hourly Wage: The average hourly wage data is as of the last"
"pay period for  FY2025, unless otherwise noted. This figure includes full- or part-time U.S. associates  who are in an active or leave of absence employment status and working in stores, clubs,  supply chain field locations, and/or call centers. The calculation excludes the following  associate types: Home Office associates, pharmacists, optical/vision center managers,  drivers, management trainees and, temporary associates and associates in non-store  operations (central fills, specialty, and"
"mail order). Wage numbers are rounded down to the  nearest $0.25. Average Hourly Starting Wage: The average hourly starting wage data is as of the last  pay period for FY2025.  This figure includes full or part time, US associates who are in an  active or leave of absence employment status and working in stores, clubs, supply chain  field locations, and/or call centers. The calculation excludes the following associate types:  Home Office associates, pharmacists, optical/vision center managers,"
"management  trainees and, temporary associates and associates in non-store operations (central fills,  specialty, and mail order). The starting hourly wage is based on associates hired within the  6 months prior to 01/24/2025. FY2025 ESG Report  8  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Opportunity Creating inclusive economic opportunity for associates and  suppliers helps us better serve our customers and strengthen  communities. We focus on offering our"
"associates good  jobs, opportunities for professional growth, and a culture of  belonging. Through sourcing, we create opportunities for  our suppliers to reach new customers, build their businesses,  support jobs in their communities, and grow with us. In This Section 10         Our People: Associate Experiences and Paths of Opportunity 22  Supplier Opportunity 75% Approximately 75% of  our U.S. salaried store,  club, and supply chain  management started  their careers as hourly  associates"
"90% 90%  of U.S. roles do not  require college degrees,  including salaried store,  club, and supply chain  management roles that pay  over $100,000 annually $18/hour Average hourly wage is more  than $18/hour as of mid-year  FY2026, nearly  28% higher  than five years ago 80% 80% of Associates who  participate in our Associate  Stock Purchase Plan  are hourly $176B Sourced an incremental  $176 billion in products  supporting American jobs  since FY2021 $66B Spent $66 billion with  certified and"
"verified U.S.  small businesses in FY2025 FY2025 ESG Report  9  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Our People: Associate Experiences and Paths of Opportunity Supplier Opportunity Our People: Associate Experiences and Paths of Opportunity Our Aspiration We seek to make retail a place of opportunity where  everyone, regardless of where they start, can build skills  and gain experiences they need to advance in their  careers. Doing so allows us to attract,"
"develop, and retain  the talent we need to meet our customers’ needs and  drive business performance in a competitive retail market. Relevance to Our Business and Society Walmart is a people-led, tech-powered company. For  Walmart to be the best place to shop, we also need it to  be the best place to work. As of the end of FY2025, we  employed approximately 2.1 million associates globally,  with approximately 1.6 million associates in the U.S. With a U.S. associate base that is 92% hourly and"
"39% under the age of 30, Walmart can provide a  foundational entry point for people to develop critical  skills relevant to careers at Walmart and beyond. Our  investments in wages, benefits, skills training, and  education can benefit not only our own associates, but  also the customers they serve, their families, and the  communities where they live. We believe our business  and philanthropic efforts to promote a skills-based  approach to workforce development beyond Walmart  further enhances"
"upward mobility and economic growth  in communities. Our Approach Governance and Accountability: Ensuring our efforts meet  the needs of our associates and, in turn, our customers. Associate Well-Being: Prioritizing the financial, physical,  and mental well-being of associates. Associate Growth: Supporting associate development  through in-house training programs, industry-leading  education benefits, and numerous advancement pathways. Associate Digital Empowerment: Equipping our  associates"
"with digital skills and tools to improve their  experience and enhance performance. Associate Belonging: Striving for every associate to  feel valued for who they are, rooted in our core value—  respecting the individual. Advancing Career Mobility Within Retail and Related  Sectors: Partnering through business and philanthropy to  promote a skills-based approach to hiring, development,  and advancement. FY2025 ESG Report  10  Our People: Associate Experiences and Paths of Opportunity Supplier"
"Opportunity INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Governance and Accountability Governance mechanisms for our people strategy include: Board and Board Committee Oversight: The Compensation and Management  Development Committee (CMDC) of Walmart’s Board of Directors oversees  Walmart’s workforce strategy, which includes the strategic priorities of belonging,  well-being, growth, and digital transformation. Management regularly presents  to the CMDC and to"
"the Board regarding workforce development, compensation,  benefits, recruiting and retention, training and education, as well as culture at all  levels of the company. Management Oversight: Walmart’s Executive Vice President and Chief People  Officer oversees Walmart’s People strategies. The President’s Belonging Council  comprises Walmart officers, including Walmart’s President and CEO, and serves in  an advisory capacity to Walmart’s Executive Council and the entire organization  to help"
"Walmart foster a culture where every associate feels like they belong.  The members, who serve a two-year term, represent each of Walmart’s  business segments. Building Leadership Accountability: Our Leadership Expectations, which play a  critical role in evaluating Walmart’s associates’ performance, are framed around our  core values, including respecting the individual. Walmart managers are expected  to ensure that everyone has the same access to growth, development, and  advancement"
"opportunities. They are also expected to foster a welcoming and  safe workplace where everyone can respectfully share their unique perspectives. Measurement and Reporting: We publicly disclose our workforce data to foster  accountability and trust. In addition to this report, our Belonging Report and  EEO‑1 Report provide further transparency and context. Associate Well-Being Through competitive compensation, benefits, and scheduling, we support  associates’ financial, physical, and mental well-"
"being. For example, Walmart  provides comprehensive benefits—many of which start on the first day of  employment—including health coverage, a 401(k) plan, and paid time off to  part‑time and full-time associates. Financial Well-Being We aim to enhance the financial well-being of our associates by offering them  competitive wages and benefits, paid leave, and predictable and flexible scheduling. Wage Structure and Pay Our wage structure and pay practices are designed to recruit and retain talent"
"in  a competitive retail and employment environment. They reflect consideration of  numerous relevant factors, including the skills necessary to do the job, business  format (e.g., store, club, distribution and fulfillment centers), local market labor  conditions (competitive compensation for similar work and cost of living), fairness  relative to other roles in the company, and parity across race, ethnicity, and gender. We continually review and invest in wages at all levels of our workforce."
"We have  raised minimum starting wages for hourly roles by over 90% since 2015 and  average hourly wages by nearly 28% over the last five years, reflecting increasing  competitiveness in the job market and the creation of new roles to serve customers  through an omnichannel offering. Additionally, we continue to strategically invest in  total pay for key field leadership roles such as store manager and market manager,  which we know are key for driving performance in our stores, clubs, and"
"distribution  and fulfillment centers. More than two-thirds of our U.S.  associates are full-time. FY2025 Average Hourly Wage and Total Compensation (U.S.) Associate  Population Hourly  Associates  in Full- Time Roles Average  Starting  Wage Average  Hourly  Wage Average  Total Hourly  Compensation2 Peer  Comparison Walmart  associates in  the U.S. 66.0% $15.75 $17.75 $22.50 Omnichannel,  multi-format  retailers Walmart U.S.  segment3 66.3% $15.75 $17.75 $22.25 Grocery chains,  multi-category"
"retailers, dollar  stores Sam’s Club U.S.  segment4 61.7% $17.25 $19.25 $24.25 Warehouse  clubs Supply chain  associates5 98.5% $24.25 $27.00 $36.25 eCommerce  fulfillment 2   Average total hourly compensation includes average hourly pay, other compensation, and benefits per hour for full- and part-time associates (excluding Puerto Rico). 3  This segment includes the Walmart U.S. stores and supply chain. 4       This segment includes Sam’s Club clubs and supply chain. 5      Supply chain"
"includes associates who work in distribution and fulfillment centers but excludes drivers. FY2025 ESG Report  11  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Our People: Associate Experiences and Paths of Opportunity Supplier Opportunity Pay Practices Fair pay is foundational to Walmart’s culture and an important characteristic of how we respect  the individual. Examples of pay practices include: •        Pay Controls: Market-based starting pay rates, limiting"
"discretion on pay to promote  consistency, and regularly reviewing pay and promotion decisions before finalization •    Transparency: Providing self-service tools for associates to view their pay details and range at  any time, expanding pay range visibility on all U.S. job postings, supporting associate inquiries  regarding pay, and providing confidential resources for raising concerns •         Capability Building: Providing learning opportunities for managers, people partners, and  recruiters"
"to ensure understanding of our pay programs, policies, and practices. Pay Equity Walmart is committed to fair pay for associates in all markets where we  operate and has processes, tools, and systems in place to help ensure  bias-free compensation for offers, movement, and promotions within  the organization. We conduct pay equity analyses annually and calculate adjusted and  unadjusted pay gaps for our U.S. associate population.6 Adjusted  Pay Gap The adjusted pay gap (“equal pay for equal"
"work”) is how much more one group earns  compared to another group that does similar  work, accounting for measurable neutral,  job‑related factors like experience, location, job,  or job level that might explain why one group  earns more. Unadjusted  Pay Gap The unadjusted pay gap measures the raw  difference in median or mean earnings between  two groups without accounting for factors such  as experience, location, job, or job level that may  influence pay disparities. Our review of pay and"
"compensation practices, along with the reported results,  is conducted and validated in consultation with expert third-party firms to  confirm that we are following industry-leading standards. As part of our annual  and ongoing rewards management, we adjust pay and practices, as necessary, to  correct for unintended pay differences and market competitiveness. Adjusted Pay Gap: The adjusted pay gap indicates whether associates  performing the same work—accounting for job-relevant factors like"
"position,  experience, and location—are paid fairly relative to one another, regardless of  protected status. •        Disclosure History: We first disclosed our adjusted gender and racial pay  gaps in 2023. •      Recent Analysis: Our most recent adjusted pay gap analyses in 2025 in the  U.S. confirm that female associates are paid $1.00 for every $1.00 that male  associates are paid, and that associates who are people of color are paid  $0.99 for every $1.00 that white associates are paid."
"Unadjusted Pay Gap: While we believe that the adjusted pay gap is the  most meaningful measure for determining pay equity, we also report on the  unadjusted pay gap, which indicates median pay differences when not adjusting  for factors like position, level, and experience (reflecting relative representation  in higher- or lower-paying roles). •   Disclosure History: We first disclosed our unadjusted gender and racial pay  gaps in 2024. •    Recent Analysis: Our most recent unadjusted pay gap"
"analyses in 2025 in  the U.S. confirm that female associates are paid 101% of the median pay for  male associates, and associates who are people of color are paid 98% of the  median pay for white associates. We continue to review our processes and analyses beyond the U.S. so that  we can consistently assess and report on our pay gap analyses and practices  globally, and we remain compliant with all global pay equity regulations. 6  Year-over-year changes may reflect normal statistical variance"
"based on workforce population changes. Such variance is typical and does not necessarily indicate a material shift in pay equity practices. FY2025 ESG Report  12  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Our People: Associate Experiences and Paths of Opportunity Supplier Opportunity Additional Financial Benefits Beyond wages, we provide benefits aimed at promoting associates’ financial  well‑being, including: Discounts and Free Memberships: Walmart U.S."
"associates receive a card7 that provides  a 10% discount at Walmart on fresh fruits, vegetables, and regularly priced general  merchandise, plus select merchandise on Walmart.com; eligible field associates also  receive a free Walmart+ membership. Sam’s Club U.S. associates working in clubs receive  Sam’s Club Plus membership and a 10% discount on fresh fruits and vegetables. Retirement: Our competitive retirement benefits8 include a 401(k) contribution plan for  all U.S. associates beginning on"
"their first day of work and a match of up to 6% for full-time  and part-time hourly U.S. associates credited with 1,000 hours of service during their first  year. As of FYE2025, we had more than 860,000 associates with retirement savings in our  401(k) plan, and Walmart’s company match in the U.S. totaled $1.82 billion. Stock Ownership Programs: In FY2025, 43.6% of our active full-time and salaried  U.S. field and Home Office associates participated in at least one of Walmart’s stock  ownership"
"programs: •      Eligible associates can participate in our Associate Stock Purchase Plan (ASPP), where  Walmart matches 15% of the first $1,800 U.S. associates contribute each year, up to  $270 per plan year.9 In FY2025, 80% of participants were hourly associates. Since our  three-for-one stock split early in 2024, associates who owned stock through ASPP  increased by 11% by the end of the year. •        Associates eligible for stock incentive awards include certain field-based supply chain"
"management, market managers, and store/club managers.10 Financial Planning Tools: We provide associates access to tools and apps to help them  manage their money and plan for bills, savings, and spending. More than half of our U.S.  associates are using these tools to help them with their finances. When unexpected  expenses occur, associates can also access earned wages ahead of scheduled paychecks  with no associated fees, penalties, or expense to them. Financial Education: Walmart collaborates"
"with external market leaders like Khan  Academy to provide educational tools and resources on budgeting, credit scores, and  investing. These collaborations help equip associates with the knowledge needed to  make better-informed decisions about their money. Paid Leave Benefits Paid Time Off (PTO): Walmart’s PTO policy for U.S. full-time and part-time frontline hourly  associates provides associates with flexibility by combining paid sick leave, vacation time,  personal time, and holiday time,"
"and associates begin earning PTO on day one. Parental Leave: Walmart provides U.S. salaried and full-time hourly associates who  become parents through birth, adoption, or foster care placement with maternity and  parental leave benefits. In FY2025, 33,100 Walmart parents utilized  maternity leave or parental leave. Majority Full-Time Workforce and Predictable Scheduling More than two-thirds of our U.S. hourly associates11 are full-time, including more than  137,000 associates who moved from"
"part-time roles to full-time roles last year. We also  offer part-time roles, which some associates prefer as a way to supplement household  income and build new skills while managing other interests and obligations. Walmart’s scheduling system is built around predictability, consistency, and flexibility: Scheduling control: Using the MyWalmart app on their phones, associates can view their  schedules up to two weeks in advance, pick up extra shifts, trade shifts with each other,  view and"
"request time off, and clock in. Consistent scheduling: Walmart offers set schedules—up to 40 hours a week—for  full‑time associates, which provides predictability in who they will work with and what  they can expect in their paycheck. 7   Full- and part-time Walmart U.S. associates receive the discount card after 90 days of employment. 8    According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, 74% of retail workers have access to employer-sponsored defined contribution retirement plans, whereas 100%"
"of Walmart associates have access to such a plan through our 401(k). 9    All U.S. associates meeting age requirements are eligible to participate. 10   Award types and grant values are dependent upon the recipient’s pay band structure or position pay range as stated in the plan documents. 11     The calculation excludes the following associate types: Pharmacists, onsite clinics, drivers, management trainees, and temporary associates. FY2025 ESG Report  13  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY"
"SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Our People: Associate Experiences and Paths of Opportunity Supplier Opportunity Physical Well-Being We provide associates and their family members on our medical plans with access to  affordable, high-quality care while also encouraging physical wellness. For discussion  about Walmart’s associate safety program, see Ethics and Compliance. Medical Plans Affordable and Accessible Medical Coverage: Full-time associates and eligible part-time"
"associates have access to health coverage through Walmart. In 2024, medical coverage  started at $34.50 per biweekly pay period, one-third less than the average premium that  employees pay at other companies nationally.12 Centers of Excellence: Walmart partners with leading health centers, including the  Cleveland Clinic, Johns Hopkins, and the Mayo Clinic to provide associates enrolled in most  Walmart medical plans access to some of the best specialists and hospitals for serious  medical"
"issues, often at no cost, based on plan enrollment and eligibility. Virtual Healthcare: Most Walmart medical plans include affordable, virtual access to  healthcare providers at no cost for services including mental health, urgent care, primary  care, and physical therapy. Family-Building Support: Walmart is committed to supporting associates as they grow  their families. Benefits offered include: •         Fertility Care: Up to $20,000 to support fertility treatment for associates and adult"
"family members enrolled in most Walmart medical plans •  Adoption and Surrogacy: Up to $20,000 reimbursement of eligible surrogacy and  adoption services, open to all salaried management (upon hire) and full-time hourly  associates (after 12 months of employment) •        Doula Services: Up to $1,000 per pregnancy for doula services through our Life with  Baby program, available to associates on most Walmart medical plans. Encouraging Physical Wellness Fitness Pass: Fitness Pass provides U.S."
"associates and their family members  access to digital fitness content for $5 per pay period or access to thousands of  gyms nationwide plus digital content for as little as $9 per pay period. myAgileLife: A text-messaging-based coaching program supporting goals like  weight loss, stress management, and chronic condition management. The tool is  available to all associates and family members at no cost. Mental Well-Being Walmart provides associates and their family members access to counseling"
"sessions, peer-to-peer support groups, and educational tools that are tailored to  their unique needs. No-Cost Mental Health Services: Walmart associates and their family members  can receive confidential, cost-free counseling with a mental health coach or a  licensed therapist 24/7. Associates get 20 no-cost sessions for themselves and  their eligible family members through channels that fit them best—whether  virtually or in person. Workforce Mental Health Training: Walmart requires mental"
"well-being  awareness education for leaders to better equip them to recognize signs that  associates might be struggling with mental health issues and coaches them on  how to respond and connect associates with resources to help. Outreach: Mental health clinicians proactively reach out to associates, providing  support for a range of healthcare and psychosocial needs, including an early  connection to care. Group Support: Associates can access 100% anonymous peer support and  group chat in"
"moderated forums, allowing them to connect with people who  understand their struggles. 12         See Kaiser Family Foundation 2024 Employer Health Benefits Survey, page 85 (figure 6.4). FY2025 ESG Report  14  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Our People: Associate Experiences and Paths of Opportunity Supplier Opportunity Associate Growth Walmart has been an entry point to skill acquisition and a ladder of opportunity since  our founding. Every day,"
"we hire people who have yet to attain their high school degree  or equivalency, those with multiple college degrees, people with years of relevant work  experience, and those with none at all. Career and Growth Opportunities We are growing our business in ways designed to ensure that customers can get the  products and services they are looking for, with accuracy and speed. This evolution has led  us to reshape roles and create new ones that serve our omnichannel business model. At  the same"
"time, we are developing better ways for associates to succeed in any role. We want associates—regardless of skill level, position, or experience—to embrace  continuous learning, adaptability, and curiosity. To support their growth, we have  developed an internal learning ecosystem that enables them to build successful careers.  Our programs, including training and skilling initiatives from Walmart Academy and  educational opportunities through Live Better U, address skill gaps and help"
"associates  successfully move up, as well as into different parts of our business. Our associates experience our career growth philosophy in practice: •    Two-thirds of associates responding to our Associate Engagement Survey (AES)  believe they have career growth opportunities at Walmart and access to the  experiences and opportunities that will help them achieve their career goals. •       Walmart U.S. associates receive their first promotion, on average, within nine months of  joining the"
"company. •        Over the last five years (FY2021–FY2025), an average of more than 160,000 U.S.  associates received promotions each year. •     84% of U.S. field roles above entry level were filled internally in FY2025. •   Approximately 75% of our U.S. salaried store, club, and supply chain management  started their careers in hourly positions. Associates in these roles earned an average of  more than $117,000 in FY2025. Our focus on associate training, education, and career growth"
"strengthens our business: •     We believe that the ability to grow a career is a significant reason why many associates  choose to stay with Walmart, and we believe that customers are more likely to keep  shopping with us when they encounter experienced and knowledgeable associates. As  of FYE2025; the average tenure for a Walmart associate in the U.S. was five years; more  than 300,000 U.S. associates have spent more than 10 years with Walmart; and more  than 60,000 U.S. associates have been"
"with the company for 25 years or more. •     Associates who enroll in our Live Better U programs are twice as likely to be promoted  and four times more likely to stay with the company.13 •        The top third of Walmart U.S. stores in terms of training completion demonstrate  increased customer satisfaction scores, associate engagement, and retention. Access: Recruitment and Hiring Walmart has evolved its recruiting and hiring processes to remove unnecessary barriers  to both opportunities for"
"growth, development, and advancement, and to recognizing  the skills and experiences individuals bring to the job. Streamlined Application Process: Frontline applicants can apply in-store, online, or  from our associate-facing online hiring center. Hiring Principles: To help ensure fair recruitment and hiring experience for our U.S.  workforce, hiring managers and recruiters are trained to follow a set of principles,  including sourcing a broad pool of qualified candidates and refraining from"
"requesting  salary history to set pay for external candidates. Valuing Skills and Knowledge: As an employer, Walmart values skills and knowledge  gained through work experience, volunteerism, military service, and education, as well as  individual interests and aptitude. To enhance our hiring strategy and expand our talent  pool, we are auditing roles and rewriting job descriptions to specify the skills required for  each job. Additionally, we have removed degree requirements from many job"
"descriptions,  prioritizing skill recognition as a primary basis for hiring and promotion. Veterans and Military Spouses: Veterans have skills that translate well to business.  Since FY2014, Walmart has hired more than 500,000 U.S. veterans and military spouses.  In FY2025, we hired 29,400 U.S. veterans and 17,100 U.S. military spouses. Fair-Chance Hiring: We were at the forefront of the movement to “ban the box”  that asks about prior criminal convictions on the initial job application. We"
"conduct  pre‑employment background checks only after a conditional job offer, and our  individualized assessment process offers candidates a meaningful opportunity to  submit additional information to put a criminal record in context. Collegiate Recruiting: We support early career college candidates across a broad  portfolio of schools. Programs include mock interviews, résumé-writing workshops,  career fairs, summits, and job simulations to expose students to the multiple career  pathways at"
"Walmart. Opportunity for Young People: As the largest employer in the U.S., we believe Walmart  and Sam’s Club are ideal places to build a career from the ground up. While people join us  at many different stages in life, young people aged 16–29 represent an important part of  the current and potential U.S. workforce. Since 2022, Sam’s Club has partnered with local  schools and parents through a high school internship program, providing young people  real work experience and a path to long-term"
"careers. More than 1,300 high school juniors  and seniors have completed the internship. As of FYE2025, Walmart does not require  college degrees for 90% of its U.S. roles.  13         According to a 2021 Lumina Foundation study. FY2025 ESG Report  15  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Our People: Associate Experiences and Paths of Opportunity Supplier Opportunity Learning Ecosystem: Training and Education Our learning ecosystem provides associates"
"with access to training and education to help  them meet their career goals while providing Walmart a ready source of top talent as our  business grows and evolves. In July 2021, Walmart committed to invest nearly $1 billion  over five years in career-driven training and education. As of FYE2025, we have invested  $803 million. We’re in the middle of a five-year, $1 billion  investment in skills training and education. Training: On-the-Job Development and Walmart Academy Trainings Walmart"
"Academy was developed to train and develop part-time and full-time associates  throughout the associate experience, starting on day one. Our approach to training and  development includes: On-the-Job Training: Associates are on teams with tiered positions where they are  responsible for specific store areas and provided with cross-training and on-the-job  development starting on their first day with the company. This model creates clear  pathways for career progression as frontline associates"
"build the skills to lead their  own team. On-Demand Training: Store associates use our MyWalmart app during the onboarding  process and early in a new role to receive training on the fundamentals of success in their  role—such as customer service, execution of core functions for their department, safety,  and compliance. Store associates can also access the full training library for just-in-time  training on specialized functions and to explore areas of personal interest. They can earn"
"knowledge badges that signal to managers an associate's interest in growth and potential  career paths. Walmart Academies: Walmart has more than 200 physical Walmart Academies in the  U.S., focused on training associates to be successful in their current role and developing  strong people leaders. Academy-led training typically starts at the hourly supervisor  level, the first rung of the leadership ladder at Walmart. New-to-role hourly supervisors  receive a two-week, in-person Leadership and"
"Operations training, focusing on Walmart  culture and values, key leadership skills, and functional role skills necessary for success in  their role. New salaried managers receive more advanced training in a similar format. Our  Manager Academy program is designed to help facility managers—those who lead stores,  clubs, and supply chain facilities—be effective leaders and keepers of our purpose, values,  and culture. We anticipate that all eligible U.S. store and club managers and supply chain"
"general managers will go through Manager Academy by the end of 2025. In FY2025, 279,000 associates in the U.S. received training via Walmart Academy, including  in-person and virtual training. Live Better U While Walmart prioritizes upward mobility through on-the-job, digital, and in-person  training programs, we also provide educational opportunities to help open even more  career paths. Our Live Better U education benefit offers our U.S. associates access  to Walmart-paid formal education"
"opportunities, including high school completion,  language learning, short-form programs, certification programs, and college degrees  tailored to in-demand roles. We curate Live Better U programs to focus on relevance to careers at Walmart and  throughout the economy, offering programs from top-ranked colleges, universities,  and institutions with proven track records of delivering results for working adult learners.  We enhanced our Live Better U educational benefit in 2024 by offering"
"thousands of  certificates and courses with an emphasis on relevance for in-demand and higher-paying  jobs like project management, software development, transportation, and logistics  management. Associates earn these in an average of four months. We have also tailored degree offerings for jobs where a degree is required or encouraged.  For example, two of our top 10 in-demand career pathways require college degrees:  product manager and software engineer. Walmart associates are able to earn"
"the degrees  required for those two jobs through Live Better U, paid for by Walmart. Since launching the Live Better U program in 2018: •     164,000 associates have enrolled in Live Better U, including 41,000 in FY2025. •        Associates have completed 29,000 programs, including diplomas, credentials,  and degrees. •     Associates have saved an estimated $812 million in tuition costs. Live Better U Program Offerings Degree and Certification Programs •  Business •      Supply Chain •"
"Software Engineering •  Supply Chain and  Operations Management Short-Form Programs •    Business •      Computer Systems •      Data Analytics •        Digital Marketing •     Human Resources •       Leadership •    Project Management •    Product Management •    Retail Management •     Supply Chain and Operations •   Technology Foundational Programs •     Language Learning,  including American  Sign Language • High School Completion •        College Start  (credit‑earning foundational"
"college courses) FY2025 ESG Report  16  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Our People: Associate Experiences and Paths of Opportunity Supplier Opportunity Preparing Associates for In-Demand Roles Walmart aims to fill approximately 100,000 in-demand jobs by focusing on skills-based hiring  and expanding opportunities for its associates through training and certificate programs. One  example is our Associate to Technician (A2T) program, which trains"
"frontline associates to move  into entry- and advanced-level technician positions. Walmart identified the key skills needed  for technician roles—such as understanding software programs and data analytics, proactively  addressing safety and risk issues, and interpreting how-to documents for equipment—and  built the A2T program to equip participating associates with the foundational skills that prepare  them for success in those roles.  How Walmart Helps Prepare Associates for In-Demand Roles"
"Walmart  supports  associate and  management  development  across the  enterprise. Walmart Manager  Academy Store/Club  Manager Pharmacy Technician  Certification Program Pharmacy Technician Optician Development  Program Optician Associate to  Driver Program Private Fleet  Truck Drivers Associate to Technician  Pipeline Program Facilities  Technician The Merchant  Development Program Merchant Development and Advancement Relevant training and education—as well as knowledge of ways of working,"
"customer and  community needs, and company culture—are invaluable assets for roles of increased  responsibility. We therefore prioritize promoting from within, guided by the belief that  advancement should be based on skills, experience, and performance. Executing this  philosophy in practice should naturally result in a broad variety of backgrounds and  perspectives being represented at all levels of the company, leading to better decision- making and customer service. Mentoring Programs:"
"Mentor circles help accelerate talent development through  access to the mentor’s insights and professional network, as well as support in setting  and achieving development objectives. The benefits to mentors include strengthening  coaching and interpersonal skills and gaining exposure to a broader talent population. Standardized Talent Management: We also seek to ensure equal opportunity for advancement  through objective and standardized talent management tools and processes. For example,"
"leaders have access to a talent toolkit that helps them have career conversations with associates  prior to performance. For promotion to officer roles, Walmart leverages validated psychometric  tools that provide insights on leadership strengths, potential gaps, and readiness in addition  to other information about the candidate, such as prior performance, qualifications, and  experience. Over the last five years, an average of more than 161,400 U.S. associates received  promotions each year."
"See related data in the ESG Data Table. Over the last five years, an average of more than  161,400 U.S. associates received promotions each year. Approximately 75% of our U.S. salaried store, club  and supply chain managers started their careers  with us as hourly associates. 84% of U.S. Roles above entry level filled internally Digital Empowerment for Associates As customer expectations evolve, so do the roles, responsibilities, and skill  requirements of our associates. We are investing in"
"digital tools to enhance their  productivity, efficiency, and overall experience at work. For example: MyWalmart and Me@Sams Apps: These apps provide a one-stop solution for  frontline associates to manage schedules, adjust personal benefits like their 401(k)  or ASPP, submit feedback or Open Door concerns, and lodge concerns with  Walmart Ethics. VizPick Technology at Walmart U.S.: This tool uses augmented reality to map and  track backroom inventory, speeding up a process that was previously"
"manual. Own Your Inventory App at Sam’s Club: This app uses computer vision technology  to give associates real-time inventory insights, so that they can help members find  products quickly and at the right price. MyAssistant Generative AI: MyAssistant is a generative AI tool designed to enhance  associate productivity by automating manual, repetitive tasks such as document  creation, calculations, and project planning. It has now expanded into 14 countries. Digitizing Training: Walmart Academy"
"provides on-demand virtual learning on a  variety of topics. For instance, job-related training is integrated into the MyWalmart  app, with associates having completed 21 million nano-learnings as of FYE2025. Preparing Associates for Tech-Powered Roles: Associates in our supply chain  facilities are shifting from manual roles like order fillers and loaders to tech-driven  positions such as automation equipment operators, autonomous forklift operators,  and reliability technicians. Walmart offers"
"training to help associates transition into  these new roles, teaching them system software and troubleshooting techniques. FY2025 ESG Report  17  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Our People: Associate Experiences and Paths of Opportunity Supplier Opportunity Associate Belonging We make better decisions and build a stronger business when associates with different  perspectives come together to meet our customers’ needs. Enabling this requires that"
"associates have confidence that their perspectives matter—that they are seen, supported,  connected, and heard. And because we believe that talent is widely distributed, but  opportunity is not, we also need to ensure that there are no artificial barriers to joining and  advancing in our company. Our Belonging approach infuses this philosophy throughout our entire People strategy,  from hiring in each of the unique communities where we operate, to how we support  associate development through"
"training and education, to how associates advance to  roles of greater responsibility and pay. Associate  Well‑Being Associate  Growth Digital  Empowerment Supporting associates’  preferred ways of working  through full- and part- time opportunities;  offering predictability,  consistency, and flexibility  in scheduling Broadening our recruiting  pools and ensuring a fair  recruitment and  hiring experience  Providing associates with  digital tools to enhance  performance and improve  digital"
"acumen Committing to fair pay for  associates in all markets  where we operate and  disclosing any pay gaps to  increase transparency Valuing skills and  knowledge for hiring  and promotions, while  providing access to  training that helps  associates grow and  advance into multiple high  potential career paths Helping associates  communicate and connect  with colleagues via  Walmart Translator app Offering benefits that  support financial, physical,  and mental well-being  of associates and"
"their  families, including  parental leave Providing access to  educational opportunities  for all associates, including  two- and four‑year college  degrees paid for by Walmart Offering associates  just‑in-time nano-learning  options so that they are  supported with learning  assistance anytime/ anywhere, which builds  confidence and comfort  in their role Fostering Communities of Interest One of the great strengths of our workforce is the ability of our associates to convene  and connect with"
"others who may share interests or backgrounds. Open to all office- based associates, associate-led Associate Resource Groups (ARGs) are designed to  foster connections and provide valuable feedback on how Walmart can better serve our  associates, customers, and stakeholders. Walmart’s nine ARGs are: •         Asian Pacific Associates Network •      Black & African American ARG •  Disability Action Network •     Faith Network •         Latino Network ARG •    Pride ARG •     SERVES ARG (Military"
"Connected) •       Tribal Voices Indigenous ARG •  Women’s Resource Community More than two-thirds of associates  responding to our annual  Associate Engagement Survey in both  2024 and 2025 expressed that they felt  like they belong at Walmart. FY2025 ESG Report  18  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Our People: Associate Experiences and Paths of Opportunity Supplier Opportunity Walmart’s Workforce Walmart’s workforce data provides valuable insights"
"into the broad experience and growth  of its associate base, highlighting the company’s commitment to creating a workplace  where associates with different backgrounds can grow their careers. Walmart U.S. Workforce FY2025 Total U.S. Workforce—Age 16–19 10.2% 20–29 28.1% 30–39 18.6% 40–49 15.4% 50–59 14.0% 60+ 13.3% Average age of the U.S. workforce is 38 years old U.S. Workforce— Women Hourly14 Management15 Officer16 Total U.S.  Workforce Women 51.5% 43.9% 37.0% 51.0% U.S. Workforce—"
"Ethnicity/Race Hourly14 Management15 Officer16 Total U.S.  Workforce African American/ Black 20.7% 11.5% 7.7% 20.1% Asian 4.4% 14.9% 9.8% 5.1% Caucasian 46.9% 56.3% 71.0% 47.6% Latino 22.4% 12.0% 5.4% 21.7% Native American/ Alaskan Native 1.1% 0.8% 0.5% 1.1% Native Hawaiian/ Pacific Islander 0.4% 0.3% 0.0% 0.4% 2+ Races 3.1% 3.8% 5.2% 3.1% We publish the full set of workforce demographic data in the ESG Data Table. Associate Feedback and Engagement Great ideas come from everywhere. Listening and"
"responding to associate  perspectives is foundational for respecting the individual, helping ensure  people are satisfied in their jobs, fostering a sense of belonging, and meeting  customer expectations. How We Seek Feedback: Hearing directly from associates is the best way to  understand and act on opinions, feedback, ideas, and suggestions. Our primary  method of communication will always be in-person, through associate-manager  meetings, team huddles, and day-to-day interactions. Digital"
"tools also facilitate  real‑time insights from millions of individual points of view. Walmart provides multiple channels for us to hear our associates, including: Leadership Engagement and Listening Sessions: Our leaders, including our  CEO, frequently engage with associates in Walmart facilities around the world to  hear directly from them. We also conduct listening sessions in connection with  major associate gatherings like our year‑beginning meetings, associates week,  shareholders’"
"meetings, and holiday meetings. Formal Surveys: Walmart’s annual, confidential AES measures associate sentiment  on a variety of topics such as manager and team relationships, career growth and  opportunity, belonging, and company culture, providing a platform for associates to  share how the company can improve their work experience. In 2024, 1.2 million U.S.  associates responded, and 677,000 provided open-text feedback. Associate Ideation: U.S.-based associates can submit ideas at any time"
"through  MyIdeas, an associate-initiated listening channel. This platform considers a wide  range of suggestions, including process efficiency improvements, workplace safety,  customer service enhancements, technology innovations, and initiatives to improve  work-life balance and job satisfaction. In FY2025, 31,000 ideas were collected through  this channel. Each idea is reviewed and, depending on the submission, associates  may be further engaged about their idea or receive feedback. Recent"
"ideas acted on  include adding label dispensers to carts used for gathering online grocery orders  (helping associates save time while fulfilling customer orders) and Walmart covering  $100 of prescription safety glasses for Auto Care Center associates. 14  All hourly associates, including temporary associates. 15       U.S. management: All salaried, exempt associates. 16    U.S. Officers: President, Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, and Vice President positions. FY2025 ESG Report"
"19  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Our People: Associate Experiences and Paths of Opportunity Supplier Opportunity Confidential Resources: Often associates want to share feedback and concerns  confidentially or anonymously, and we provide avenues for doing so: •       Our Open Door process allows associates to share ideas, ask questions, and raise  concerns in good faith with their supervisors and other leaders at any time without  fear of"
"retaliation. Additionally, U.S.-based associates can use the MyFeedback Portal,  a self-service site to access confidential channels. •  Associates can make anonymous and confidential reports via multiple channels. We  annually survey associates on their knowledge of these channels. How We Take Responsive Action: Regional and divisional leaders—as well as their People  team partners—routinely review associate feedback and insights, track progress against  goals and action plans, and adjust"
"priorities in response. To drive responsiveness and  accountability, Walmart is leveraging technology, including generative artificial intelligence  (AI), to surface and interpret feedback across channels so it is more actionable. Read more  in the Ethics & Compliance section. Putting Associate Feedback Into Action Associates shared that they wanted access to translation tools to better connect with  one another and more effectively engage and serve our customers. As a result, the  Walmart"
"Translator app is now available in 44 languages to over 1.6 million associates  across U.S. Walmart stores, Sam’s Clubs, and Walmart supply chain facilities. Walmart  Translator supports both English-speaking associates and those who speak other  languages, helping them communicate more clearly with customers and their  fellow associates. The Walmart Translator app is now available  in 44 languages to over 1.6 million associates. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Walmart’s Board-"
"approved Human Rights Statement expresses a firm  commitment to respect the basic rights of our associates as those rights are  defined under applicable law in the countries in which we operate and from  which we source the products we sell. Those basic rights include freedom  of association and the effective recognition of collective bargaining. We  recognize there are different views about freedom of association. Our view is,  consistent with applicable law, that Walmart respects the rights of"
"associates  to join, form, or not to join an employee association or trade union of their  choice without interference. We also believe that associates should exercise  these rights in an informed manner and with the benefit of thoughtful  consideration of available information, including the free exchange of ideas,  opinions, and information, provided there is no interference. We have a robust labor compliance program designed so that freedom of  association is upheld and is consistent with"
"Walmart’s policies, positions, and  relevant laws. For example: All supervisors receive training that includes information on respecting  associates’ rights. Training is provided to newly promoted supervisors with  regular follow-up. Human Resources and Operations teams regularly conduct facility visits  to ensure our policies and expectations are being upheld. These include  impromptu visits as well as visits where there are indications that managers  may not be effectively listening to their"
"associates. All associates have confidential access to Walmart Ethics and to Walmart’s  Open Door to share concerns related to any treatment or policy-related matters. Our associate relations team follows up on identified issues, including  re‑training associates and managers on their rights and obligations. As of the end of 2024, certain populations of Walmart associates were  represented by some form of third-party representation in 11 of the 19  countries in which Walmart operated, including"
"Mexico, our second-largest  market. As of the end of FY2025, our U.S. associates were not under any  collective bargaining agreements. FY2025 ESG Report  20  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Our People: Associate Experiences and Paths of Opportunity Supplier Opportunity Advancing Career Mobility Within Retail  and Related Sectors Since 2015, through business and philanthropic initiatives, Walmart.org has collaborated  with others to accelerate career"
"mobility in retail and related sectors by facilitating a  skills-based approach to hiring, development, and advancement. For example, Walmart.org funds the Retail Opportunity Network, a community of practice  comprising leading nonprofit organizations focused on upskilling and economic mobility  for all people working in frontline roles across America. Additionally, Walmart engages with  business coalitions like Jobs For The Future’s Impact Employer network to prioritize  employee growth and"
"well-being and the Business Roundtable’s Multiple Pathways  Initiative to share best practices for equitable, skills-based hiring and advancement. Over the last five years, Walmart and the Walmart Foundation have invested $160 million in  philanthropic grants to accelerate the advancement of frontline workers, including: Adoption of Skills-First Practices: Arkansas LAUNCH, a skills-based career platform  sponsored by the state of Arkansas, matches Arkansans to job opportunities aligned to  their"
"skills and professional background as well as employers to potential workers. Higher-Quality Data Regarding Workers’ Skills: Education Quality Outcome Standards,  a collaborative initiative between Jobs for the Future and the Burning Glass Institute (BGI),  partners with the state of Arkansas and the National Governors Association to implement  and integrate standards that help define and support quality non-degree credentials. Making the Business Case for Skills-First Practices: Grads of Life"
"is collaborating with  employers to enhance their understanding and ability to measure and communicate the  value of advancing skills-first initiatives to demonstrate the return on investment for these  practices and support the business case of a skills-first philosophy. Data Mobility to Communicate Skills Between Tech Systems: Jobs for the Future  focuses on co-designing, testing, and scaling verifiable credentials for veterans to drive  value in securing civilian employment opportunities by"
"ensuring credential interoperability  between tech systems. Skills-First.org: Creating Opportunity for American Workers Building upon foundational work from our 2024 Opportunity Summit, Walmart  is supporting efforts for skills-first hiring and creating more opportunities for  all Americans through BGI’s Skills-First Workforce Initiative. The Initiative is a  collaboration of large employers (including Walmart) working to develop a  common language, or taxonomy, of skills for nine common jobs"
"that represent  more than 11 million U.S. workers. Through this initiative, BGI recently launched  Skills-First.org, which provides employers with a breakdown of the skills  needed for those jobs. The common taxonomy aims to make job searches and  job hiring easier for all. Walmart hopes this initiative will help inspire system- wide change that will create workforce opportunities driving job mobility,  addressing labor shortages, and growing the economy. For more information, please read our"
"blog on the Skills-First Initiative Creating  Opportunity for All American Workers. Challenges •       The economic and cultural environment favors traditional educational models over  on‑the-job education and skills development, and there is an immature market for  cost‑effective, practical tools to rapidly build skills among adult learners. •     NGOs and academics sometimes disagree on the most effective strategies for frontline  workforce development and the definition of a good job and a"
"fair and compelling  associate value proposition. •  Stakeholders also have differing views on the relative importance of base hourly  wages vs. other strategies to promote economic and career mobility such as benefits,  upskilling, and mobility. •     There are stark and ever-changing differences in the expectations stakeholders have  for how businesses engage in diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives, and positions  taken by many corporations, including Walmart, are tracked, monitored,"
"and subject to  heightened scrutiny from consumers, investors, advocacy groups and public figures.  Walmart has to adapt, evolve, and maintain a balance that meets the acceptance of our  customers, associates, shareholders, suppliers, and other stakeholders, but we may  not always move as quickly or in the direction that various competing interests desire  or demand. •       Walmart is subject to local, national, and international economic trends and realities.  There is strong competition among"
"employers for skilled workers, and labor surpluses  and shortages can impact retail businesses. •    Walmart’s business is evolving rapidly. Customer trends toward omnichannel shopping,  including pickup and delivery, change the skills necessary in Walmart’s frontline  workforce and may outpace associates’ skills and readiness. Our training and upskilling  strategies are intended to address this need but may not always keep pace. FY2025 ESG Report  21  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY"
"COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Our People: Associate Experiences and Paths of Opportunity Supplier Opportunity Supplier Opportunity Our Aspiration We seek to source in ways that serve our customers  around the world, promote economic growth and  development, and create opportunities for our suppliers,  the people they employ, and their communities. Relevance to Our Business and Society Helping customers save money and live better starts  with offering affordable, innovative, quality"
"products.  By sourcing locally from a diverse mix of suppliers, we  not only strengthen local economies and support job  creation but also expand access to market for emerging  businesses. These efforts enhance the relevance, value,  and resilience of our assortment for customers around  the world. Our Approach Made in the U.S.: Investments to strengthen American  manufacturing, support small businesses, create  new jobs, and provide more value to our customers  and communities. International"
"Sourcing: Sourcing and building capacity  of small businesses in the retail markets beyond the U.S.,  including increasing exports of goods from India to our  other global businesses. Smallholder Farmers: We source directly from  smallholders, including in Central America, India, and  Mexico, and also invest through philanthropy to facilitate  market access and building capacity of smallholders  across the sector. FY2025 ESG Report  22  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS &"
"INTEGRITY APPENDIX Our People: Associate Experiences and Paths of Opportunity Supplier Opportunity Made in the U.S. Walmart’s commitment to U.S. sourcing is creating opportunities for small businesses,  ensuring job stability, and boosting local economies, as well as strengthening our ability to  meet customer demand for locally made products. Products Made, Grown, or Assembled in the U.S. Building on a long history of sourcing American-made products—including completion  of a 10-year, $250"
"billion sourcing commitment—we have a goal to spend an incremental  $350 billion (over our FY2021 purchases) by the end of FY2031. As of FYE2025, we have  increased cumulative U.S. spend by $176 billion toward that goal. In FY2025, more than  two‑thirds of Walmart U.S.’s total product spend was on items made, grown, or assembled  in the United States. See the U.S. Manufacturing Initiative for more information. Attracting New Suppliers: Open Call Walmart’s annual Open Call event is one way we"
"identify new suppliers of products  made, grown, or assembled in the U.S. At Open Call 2024, 545 small and medium-sized  enterprises (SMEs) from across the country pitched their products to Walmart U.S. and  Sam’s Club merchants. More than 100 suppliers received a deal for businesses to sell their  items through placement or through our stores and clubs or online. For example, Fire  Department Coffee, a veteran- and first‑responder-owned company, extended its reach to  2,700 stores in the U.S"
"after successful pitches at the 2023 and 2024 Open Call events. Developing Suppliers: U.S. Small Business Program In FY2025, more than 60% of Walmart’s and Sam’s U.S. suppliers, accounting for  $65.0 billion of our spend, were small businesses verified as meeting the U.S. Small  Business Administration’s Industry Size Standards. Because many small suppliers need support when they’re starting out or when they’ve  decided to take their business to the next level, our U.S. Small Business Program"
"aims  to create opportunities for small businesses and entrepreneurs to thrive as suppliers to  Walmart. For example, Grow with US—one of our small business programs—is designed  to provide U.S. small businesses with the training, mentorship, and resources they need  to grow with Walmart. Grow with US opportunities include: •   U.S. Small Business Curriculum on Supplier Academy: Walmart’s Supplier Academy  offers a free, tailored curriculum designed to help small businesses succeed in Walmart’s"
"U.S. stores and online Marketplace. The program includes 30 e-learning modules across  four distinct learning paths including Welcome to Walmart 101, Retail Ready Capabilities,  Business Fundamentals, and Advanced Learning. •    Product Discovery: RangeMe is a product discovery platform Walmart uses to source  and manage product proposals. Aspiring suppliers can create and submit product  listings directly to Walmart and Sam’s Club Merchandising for consideration. •       Mentorship: Select"
"suppliers are matched with experienced mentors to help navigate  the retail landscape. •     Financing: Eligible small businesses can apply for financial support through Walmart’s  Early Payment Program and Bridge Marketplace. International Sourcing Walmart services customers through stores, clubs, and eCommerce in 18 countries  beyond the U.S. We aim to attract and develop suppliers who help us offer the products  our customers want. Sourcing Locally, Globally We prioritize local sourcing in"
"each of our retail markets. For example, 82.8% of merchandise  sold in Mexico is purchased in‑country, and in 2023, Chile increased spend on national  providers by 21.2%. Attracting Suppliers: Growth Summits In our retail markets outside the U.S., Walmart Growth Summits create opportunities  for selected entrepreneurs to pitch their products to Walmart merchants. In addition to  pitch meetings, these events include breakout sessions to educate business owners of  all sizes on what it’s like to"
"do business with Walmart. Events include those in Canada,  Central America, Chile, India, Mexico, and South Africa, with each requiring that  products be made, grown, or assembled in the designated event area in order to be  considered for the event. Our Marketplace Growth Summit helps sellers grow their  sales on Walmart’s online store. Developing Global Suppliers Supporting the growth of suppliers in our retail markets helps build their abilities,  preparing them to work with Walmart. It also"
"creates a pipeline of new partners for our  stores and clubs worldwide, helping us bring the goods our customers want to market. Crece con Walmart Crece con Walmart is a supplier development program supporting the business  and digital skills of micro-, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in Mexico. It has  three components: •  Development: Growing your business as a Walmart Mexico supplier •       Learning: Online learning through self-service modules, live webinars, personalized  mentoring,"
"and a dedicated SMEs toolbox •  Building Connections: Connecting with our team of mentors and Marketplace experts. Potencia Pyme para Chile In Chile, we look to build the capacity of SMEs so that they can eventually join us as  suppliers to our supermarkets and our digital platforms. The program includes: •    An online training platform for all SMEs; •     For those SMEs selected for further learning, a training and guidance program; and •    For high-potential SMEs, the opportunity to be"
"selected as suppliers and receive  dedicated support to continue developing their value proposition. FY2025 ESG Report  23  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Our People: Associate Experiences and Paths of Opportunity Supplier Opportunity Make in India for the World Walmart has sourced goods from India for more than 20 years, exporting billions of dollars  in products. Building on this foundation, Walmart seeks to increase its annual exports of  goods"
"from India to $10 billion per year by the end of 2027. This dedicated effort complements our ongoing Flipkart Samarth and Walmart Vriddhi  supplier development programs, which aim to help small Indian producers bring their  products to broader markets. The Flipkart Samarth initiative helps MSMEs register  for and succeed in online sales. Walmart’s Vriddhi Supplier Development Program,  launched in 2019, aims to support 50,000 of India’s MSMEs by providing them free training,  mentoring, and"
"digital tools to help them grow, scale, and integrate into domestic and  global supply chains. In FY2025, Walmart Vriddhi celebrated the graduation of 70,000  MSMEs from the program. Smallholder Farmers Sourcing From Smallholder Farmers Our smallholder farmer development programs have been a transformative catalyst  for both local farmers and agricultural development in Mexico and Central America.  Walmart Mexico’s Pequeño Productor market access program has helped participating  agribusinesses"
"increase their income up to 90% in their first year of sales. The program  aims to provide tools and training to 50,000 farmers, digitally train 25,000 farmers, and  empower 10,000 young people and women through agronomic training. See the 2024 Walmart Mexico and Central America Annual Report for more information. Market Access for Smallholder Farmers Walmart complements sourcing from small producers with philanthropic programs to  improve the livelihoods of smallholder farmers, with a focus on"
"Central America, India,  and Mexico. Between FY2021 and FY2025, the Walmart Foundation awarded grants of  $82.3 million with the aim to improve farmer livelihoods and value chains, encourage  the adoption of sustainable agriculture practices, unlock access to finance, grow formal  market linkages, strengthen Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs), and empower women  farmers in FPOs. India: Since 2023, the Walmart Foundation has made grants designed to reach over  700,000 smallholder farmers, more"
"than 50% of whom are women, putting us on track to  achieve the goal to fund projects designed to build capacity and advance the economic  livelihoods of 1 million smallholder farmers by 2028. This initiative builds on over $39  million invested by Walmart Foundation in grants between FY2019 and FY2023 to  strengthen smallholder farmer livelihoods in India. Recent grants under this program include: •       The National Entrepreneurship Network: Working in Madhya Pradesh and  Maharashtra to"
"develop and deploy an AI-powered smartphone application to  enable real-time produce quality assessment for approximately 200,000 smallholder  soybean farmers. •  ISAP India Foundation: Aiming to increase the productivity and profitability of 15,000  smallholder farmers in Karnataka, India, through capacity building and market linkages. Early results of these efforts are promising, with an impact study finding that women  farmers who participated in programs funded by Walmart Foundation grants"
"demonstrated  increased participation, awareness, and decision-making as FPO office bearers. Mexico and Central America: The Walmart Foundation has invested $31.3 million in grants  to strengthen smallholder farmer livelihoods in Mexico and Central America between  FY2021 and FY2025, including: •       Mercy Corps: The program aims to support 2,000 smallholder farmers, 60% of whom  are women, to adopt climate-smart, regenerative agricultural practices to improve their  crop yields and"
"resilience, on top of 4,000 smallholders reached through previous efforts. •  International Development Enterprises: IDE seeks to increase the productivity,  income, and resilience of 2,500 smallholder farmers in Honduras, with a focus on the  role women play as impact multipliers in their communities. •     Catholic Relief Services: The program seeks to support increased incomes and  resilient livelihoods for 8,000 smallholder farmers across Guatemala, Honduras, and  Mexico through strengthened"
"business capacity and access to markets. Program results include increases in farm productivity, improved access to finance, and  enhanced market linkages. Challenges •         Systemic issues can inhibit the development of a broad supplier ecosystem, despite  efforts from Walmart and others to enhance capacity, market readiness, and inclusion. •     Smallholders face substantial barriers to growth, such as limited access to finance,  inputs, and technical assistance. •       Walmart’s size and"
"scale can create challenges for small and local suppliers to be  qualified to meet our needs and those of our customers. FY2025 ESG Report  24  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Sustainability Walmart’s sustainability efforts focus on enhancing the resilience of our operations and product value  chains to enhance surety of supply, catalyze innovation and growth, maintain everyday low cost, and  build stakeholder trust. Our priorities include reducing"
"GHG emissions, regenerating natural resources,  reducing product and packaging waste, and supporting people who work in supply chains through  responsible sourcing and the creation of inclusive economic opportunity. In This Section 26        Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions 37    Regeneration of Natural Resources 45    Waste: Circular Economy 53      People in Supply Chains 57      Animal Welfare 59      Product Supply Chain Sustainability 48.5% 48.5% of our global  electricity needs"
"are  supplied by renewable  sources of energy 43.3 43.3 million acres of  land more sustainably  managed, protected,  or restored -18.1% Scope 1 & 2 emissions  18.1% lower than  2015 baseline 1.19 billion 1.19 billion MT CO2e avoided,  reduced, or sequestered  (as reported by suppliers  through Project Gigaton)  in product value chains  since 2017 83.5% 83.5% of our global  operational waste  diverted from landfills  and incineration 82.6% 82.6% of global  Walmart private brand  plastic"
"packaging is  designed for recycling 95.1% 95.1% of Walmart U.S. fresh  and frozen, wild-caught  and farmed, seafood was  reported by suppliers as  more sustainably sourced FY2025 ESG Report  25  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions  Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions Our"
"Aspiration We seek to enhance energy access, cost, and reliability  for our business, strengthen our resilience to physical  and transition risks related to a changing climate,  develop new clean energy businesses, and draw down  emissions in our operations and value chains. Relevance to Our Business and Society As an omnichannel retailer operating in 19 countries with  a global supply chain and millions of customers, a strong  energy and climate strategy helps Walmart manage  risk and creates"
"competitive advantage. This strategy  contributes to a cleaner and more reliable electrical grid;  offers innovative products; helps suppliers reduce costs,  and improve operations and products; and builds trust  with stakeholders. Our Approach Governance and Transparency: Ensuring our climate  resilience, energy, and emissions strategies are  appropriately managed and overseen. Assessing Climate and Energy-Related Risks and  Opportunities: Assessing physical and transition  risks that may"
"impact our business. Mitigation—Energy and Emissions: Enhancing access to  clean energy, innovating to lower operational emissions,  and engaging stakeholders to lower our value chain  emissions. Adaptation: Fortifying our assets and addressing  climate-related risks. Advocacy: Responsible engagement in public policy  to mitigate risks, bolster opportunities, and support  decarbonization. FY2025 ESG Report  26  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate"
"Resilience, Energy, and Emissions  Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Governance and Transparency Walmart’s climate action strategy is developed and led by our CSO and Head of Energy, and  their teams, working with teams across the company to ensure it is embedded in relevant  business strategies (e.g., sourcing, operations, merchandising, real estate, finance, and  public policy). Various Board and"
"management committees oversee and advise on our climate strategy.  Walmart’s Executive Council receives an update at least annually on the company’s  strategies and performance related to climate and energy. The Board’s Nominating and  Governance Committee (NGC) has oversight responsibility for matters related to the  company’s sustainability initiatives, including those related to climate change. Additionally,  climate-related risks are assessed at least annually as part of the company’s"
"enterprise risk  management (ERM) program, and ERM outputs are discussed with the Governance Risk  Committee. The Board’s Audit Committee oversees overall risk identification, monitoring,  and mitigation processes, and the results of the annual ERM process are shared with the  Audit Committee. Read more in the Corporate Governance section. Assessing Climate and Energy-Related  Risks and Opportunities Climate change creates physical and transition risks for business. Physical risks include  acute"
"events like extreme weather and chronic shifts in climate patterns, which can disrupt  operations and supply chains. Transition risks arise from evolving policies, regulations,  technologies, and market dynamics. Walmart periodically conducts scenario-based climate risk assessments to help identify  those risks that may impact our business today and in the future, as well as the expected  nature and magnitude of those impacts. These assessments can also help surface  business opportunities. We"
"conducted our first scenario-based climate risk assessment in 2017, updating it in  2020 to consider climate-related risks over various time horizons, including risks to our  operations and specific commodity value chains. In 2024, with the assistance of a global  accounting firm, we reassessed physical and transition risks, reflecting the evolution of our  business and climate science. The focus of this latest assessment was to identify risks that,  under commonly accepted scenarios, could"
"reasonably be expected to affect Walmart’s  prospects or otherwise be strategically and operationally relevant for our business. The assessment proceeded in three phases: •    Screening and Prioritization: We examined approximately 40 unique industry- relevant climate risks that could impact Walmart’s operations and value chain under  any scenario, to a degree that would be strategically and operationally relevant. •    Analyzing Quantitative Climate Scenarios: We analyzed a subset of relevant"
"risks  using a high-emissions scenario for physical risks and a net-zero scenario for transition  risks to assess the potential likelihood and magnitude of impacts on Walmart’s  business. Notably, these scenarios do not lead to significantly different outcomes over  the primary periods relevant to our strategic and financial planning (one and five years).  However, differences do materialize in the later years  of the assessment. •  Assessing Impact: This assessment aimed to determine potential"
"impacts to Walmart’s  operating income using detailed internal financial and business information. This  included financial statements, disaggregated net sales, location-specific revenue,  operating income margin, SG&A expenses, business interruption costs, utility  consumption and costs, procurement spend by country of origin, building replacement  value, inventory value for physical operations, and cost of goods sold. The assessment  concluded with the application of qualitative and"
"quantitative factors consistent with  those generally used to determine financial materiality for financial reporting purposes. The strategically and operationally relevant risks for our business are outlined below.  Two of these risks could reasonably be expected to affect Walmart’s prospects over the  medium-term (five‑year) horizon due to their likelihood and potential impact on operating  income: (1) operational disruptions from extreme weather events, and (2) product and  commodity sourcing"
"disruption from extreme weather events.17 Of these risks, the two  which could reasonably be expected to affect Walmart’s prospects are widespread in  nature and do not present any single risk exposure with the potential to produce losses  large enough to threaten Walmart’s ability to maintain its core operations. Regular Monitoring of Climate-Related Risks  and Opportunities Management oversees the annual ERM process and the day-to-day management of  strategic, reputational, financial, legal,"
"regulatory/compliance, and operational risks.  Climate-related risks, including the outputs of our 2024 risk assessment, are integrated  into this process. Additionally, relevant business segments consider climate-related issues  in their annual and long-term strategic and operating plans. Walmart also monitors and seeks out climate-related opportunities—for example,  introducing new products (e.g., more efficient air conditioners) and expanded services  (e.g., the expansion of our electric"
"vehicle (EV) charging network to serve existing  customers and draw in new ones). 17   Any quantitative financial disclosures will be made in Walmart’s public filings with the SEC if and when public disclosure criteria are met.  2024 Climate Risk Assessment Summary Scope: Physical and transition risks with the potential to significantly impact  Walmart’s business, including retail operations, warehouse operations, corporate  support, transportation, manufacturing, sourcing, and customers"
"Horizons: One year (short-term), five years (medium-term), 15 years (long-term),  with short-term and medium-term risks aligned with Walmart’s annual and long- range planning cycles Thresholds and Factors: Qualitative and quantitative factors used to determine  likelihood and impact aligned with general company practices for assessing risk and  financial materiality, using the most recent relevant financial data for the aspect of  our business being assessed Scenarios: Intergovernmental Panel on"
"Climate Change (IPCC) AR6 Shared  Socioeconomic Pathway 5-8.5 for physical risk; NGFS Net Zero 2050 for transition risk FY2025 ESG Report  27  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions  Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Key Findings and Example Mitigation Strategies 1-8 Physical Risk        9-13 Transition Risk Primary"
"Potential Financial Impact18 Example Mitigation Strategies 1.  Operational disruption from extreme weather events Reduced revenue and increased costs from facility damage caused  by extreme weather events, as well as interruption of Walmart  transportation routes. For example, potential damage from tropical  storm-driven wind and flooding, and associated interruption of store,  club, and distribution and fulfillment operations. •  Investments in asset hardening and disaster planning •"
"Implementing technology to expedite supply chain rerouting •    Operation of a 24/7/365 GSOC, including weather forecasting capabilities 2. Product and commodity sourcing disruption from extreme weather events Product shortages and increased costs from supplier business  disruptions. For example, increased temperatures and drought may  impact where certain commodities can be grown, and ports and other  critical infrastructure can be impacted by extreme weather. •     Diversifying suppliers and"
"sourcing countries/regions •         Local sourcing in each of our markets •         Investments in product innovation and more resilient commodities 3. Store access and mobility issues for customers and associates from extreme weather events Reduced associate and customer access to Walmart facilities during  and after extreme weather events. For example, flooding or debris  from storms may limit access to our stores. •      Investments in asset hardening and disaster planning •  Regular"
"communication with customers and associates ahead of and  during extreme weather events 4. Rising sea level impacts to operations in coastal areas Reduced revenue and increased costs from facility damage and long- term relocation. For example, chronic sea level rise could exacerbate  acute coastal flooding, requiring regular building repairs and resulting  in loss of sales during such events. •   Integrating long-term sea level forecasting considerations in new site  selection/development"
"process 5. Grid outages from extreme weather events Revenue loss from downtime and closures, and loss of products due to  grid outages. For example, stores and clubs cannot serve customers  without power; distribution and fulfillment centers cannot run at  capacity; and fresh and frozen food may spoil. •         Identifying sites at heightened risk and installing backup generators or  quick-connection ports •      Expanding onsite power generation and battery storage 6. Chronic rising"
"temperatures impact on operational energy demand, workers, and grid reliability Increased costs and reduced grid reliability from heat-related  power surges, increased cooling expenses, and reduced associate  productivity. For example, stress on the grid may lead to higher rates,  buildings may require more energy to cool, associate productivity may  be negatively impacted by chronic rising temperatures, and blackouts  may occur. •     Investing in advanced cooling systems •         Expanding"
"onsite power generation and battery storage •         Identifying sites at heightened risk and installing backup generators or  quick-connection ports •      Investing in technology to monitor and predict energy needs and  moderate consumption •         Contributing to improved grid reliability through offsite generation  and storage Primary Potential Financial Impact18 Example Mitigation Strategies 7.  Chronic changes from drought-related impacts to facilities and assets Increased costs for"
"water utilities and loss of revenue associated with  water-reliant inventory. For example, retail units reliant on quality  water for food preparation, restrooms, and garden centers could face  business disruption and loss of sales in certain product categories. •     Investing in technology to monitor and control water usage •    Integrating water access considerations in new site selection process 8. Decrease in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and consumer spending from long-term physical climate"
"impacts Reduced sales from overall drag on the economy. For example, higher  utility costs, insurance costs, and costs of consumer goods resulting  from physical climate phenomena, as well as costs of maintaining and  repairing structures as a result of extreme weather events could result  in decreased discretionary spending. •       Maintaining everyday low prices •       Increasing product assortment to meet customers’ preferences and  financial abilities 9. Carbon pricing mechanisms on"
"operations from increased climate-related regulations Increased costs of doing business due to embedded or additional  prices on carbon. For example, direct and indirect taxes on fuels,  refrigerants, and GHG emissions, or regulations mandating the  adoption of higher-cost technologies, could increase operating costs. •         Accelerating Scope 1 & Scope 2 emissions reduction strategies •         Regulatory monitoring and advocating for policies that promote  innovation and consumer choice 10."
"Carbon pricing on purchased goods from increased climate-related regulations Increased costs from taxes, fees, and/or cap-and-trade schemes  impacting our supply chain. For example, Walmart’s suppliers,  including those involved in manufacturing, packaging, and distribution,  could be subjected to direct taxes, carbon border adjustment  mechanisms, and higher embedded costs of product inputs. •        Accelerating Scope 3 strategies, including engaging suppliers through  Project Gigaton •"
"Regulatory monitoring and advocating for policies that promote  innovation and choice 11. Electricity cost volatility from the transition to a low carbon economy Increased operating costs from higher‑priced electricity. For example,  the development of clean energy sources and necessary enhancements  to grid infrastructure could dramatically increase utilities’ operational  costs, with pass-through to rate-payers like Walmart. •        Expanding onsite and offsite power generation and battery"
"storage •     Investing in technology to monitor and predict energy needs and  moderate consumption •         Negotiating long-term, staggered energy pricing agreements 12. Decreased demand for products related to internal combustion engines Reduced revenue from sales of products that will become less  prevalent over time. For example, shifting market and consumer  preferences toward EVs and battery-powered equipment could reduce  the demand for traditional fuels and parts. •      Diversifying"
"or expanding product assortment to meet customers’  preferences and changing needs •       Building customer-facing EV charging business 13. Long-term climate transition impacts on GDP and consumer spending Reduced sales from overall drag on the economy. For example,  implementation of carbon pricing regimes could result in decreased  discretionary spending. •         Maintaining everyday low prices •       Increasing product assortment to meet customers’ preferences and  financial abilities 18"
"Potential financial impacts are all based on a medium-term (five-year) time horizon. FY2025 ESG Report  28  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions  Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Mitigation: Energy and Emissions Walmart’s emissions mitigation strategy reflects our need for cost-effective, resilient  operations and"
"product value chains as well as our ambition to lead on emissions reduction. Expanding Access to Affordable, Resilient, Clean Energy As we invest in new technologies, our operations increasingly rely on access to reliable,  affordable energy. Our energy strategy seeks to optimize for access, cost, resilience, and  emissions. Ensuring energy access and resilience prevents disruptions that could impact  business continuity and customer service. Implementing energy-efficient measures,  reducing"
"emissions, and investing in clean energy helps control costs and strengthen our  competitive position. We have prioritized initiatives that enhance energy efficiency, increase  energy resilience, enable new capacity, and build value-creating new energy businesses. Energy Efficiency Walmart has focused on energy efficiency for more than 20 years. Building on this legacy,  some of our current strategies include: •     Real-time monitoring and optimization of systems using installed meters at"
"thousands  of our facilities (including most U.S. stores) •  Designing and constructing new and remodeled facilities with more efficient lighting,  HVAC, and refrigeration, as well as replacing and upgrading older equipment with more  efficient technology. Energy Resilience We aim to limit customer service disruptions and product waste caused by electric grid  outages due to severe weather events, stress, aging infrastructure, or other factors. Our  approach includes: •   Energy Monitoring and"
"Response: We are working to improve the accuracy and  detail of our energy use data. By tracking and analyzing consumption across numerous  centers and stores, especially those undergoing an automation transition, we can  better understand future energy demand patterns, optimize operations, right-size  infrastructure, and reduce costs. •       Power Quality Analysis: Our operations require stable power. We are studying how  today’s grid challenges impact power quality to mitigate risk to"
"sensitive systems.  These insights help us proactively upgrade equipment and improve grid connections  as needed. •  Building Onsite Energy Generation: We are investing in onsite solutions such as solar  panels, wind turbines, and energy storage systems to reduce dependency on external  power sources. Many of these solutions include cost advantages as well. Read more in the Adaptation section. Enabling New Capacity The grid needs more reliable, high-quality power, and we are in a position to"
"help enable it  in ways that directly benefit our energy needs and help save Walmart and our customers  money. Between 2024 and the end of 2030, we aim to enable up to 10 gigawatts (GW) of  new clean energy projects, building on strategies that have helped us meet 30.6% of our  electricity needs through long-term renewable energy contracts (as of 2024). Clean Energy  Projects Goal: By the end of 2030, enable up to 10 GW  (10,000 MW) of new clean energy projects  into service onsite and offsite19"
"Metric CY2024 Total MW of clean energy projects enabled since January 1, 2024,  through current investments20 1,886 MW Total MW of contracted clean energy portfolio 4,402 MW 19       The majority of new clean energy envisioned by this commitment is expected to be delivered through third-party offsite generation agreements. Achieving this goal by 2030 is therefore dependent upon the availability of commercially viable clean energy projects. 20        Includes MW anticipated to be enabled through"
"current investments. Building Value-Creating Clean Energy Businesses Walmart is investing in a diverse portfolio of clean energy solutions that benefit  our customers and complement our existing businesses. These include solar  and wind energy projects, energy storage systems, and advanced energy  management technologies. By the end of 2024, our U.S. operations included: •    1,300 third-party managed EV fast charging stations available at  280 stores and clubs •        166 MW of onsite solar"
"capacity across 325 facilities •         10 MW of onsite energy storage capacity across 44 facilities FY2025 ESG Report  29  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions  Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Innovating to Lower Operational Emissions (Scope 1 & 2) Operational emissions reduction is a foundational stakeholder"
"expectation and helps us  mitigate certain transition-related risks (e.g., efficiency standards, carbon pricing, regulated  transitions toward lower-emissions technologies). In retail, operational emissions include  emissions from onsite refrigeration, transport fuels, stationary fuels (Scope 1) and from  purchased electricity (Scope 2). We aspire to achieve zero emissions in Scope 1 & 2 by 2040. In 2024, our emissions intensity continued to decline, dropping 3.7% year-over-year even as  our"
"annual year-over-year operational emissions (Scope 1 & 2) increased by 1.1%. Our 2024  emissions performance was primarily impacted by: •      Increased U.S. transportation-related emissions due to continued business growth •      Increased emissions in our Mexico and Central America markets due to rapid business  growth and declining renewable energy output due to heat- and drought‑related effects. As a result, 2024 global Scope 1 & 2 emissions are 18.1% lower than our 2015 baseline, while"
"emissions intensity is 47.4% lower (meaning dollar for dollar, our business is roughly half as  emissions intensive as it was in FY2016). We expect that operational emissions progress will continue to be uneven year over year.  While we manage factors within our control, additional factors include global energy policy  and infrastructure (e.g., the unavailability of new private renewable energy projects in  Mexico), the availability of cost-effective energy solutions (such as solar panels, low"
"global  warming potential (GWP) refrigeration, and HVAC solutions), and the timely emergence of  cost-effective technologies for low-carbon heavy tractor transportation (which is unlikely  until the 2030s). As a result, we continue to anticipate delays in achieving our interim  emissions reduction targets of a 35% reduction by 2025 and a 65% reduction by 2030. Powering Our Operations With Renewable Sources of Energy We aim to power 50% of our global operations with renewable sources of energy by"
"2025 and 100% by 2035. In 2024, 48.5% of our global electricity needs were supplied  by renewable sources and 30.6% of our global electricity needs were procured through  renewable energy contracts.21 While our goals are currently on track, regulatory challenges and market dynamics may  slow our progress in certain countries where we do business. We are pursuing strategies  to unlock capacity, but we cannot predict with certainty when or if we will succeed. For  a discussion on our public policy"
"approach supporting clean energy efforts, read the  Responsible Engagement in Public Policy section. Emissions Goal: Achieve zero emissions across  global operations by 2040 (Scope 1 & 2) •  Reduce absolute global Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions  35% by 2025 and 65% by 2030 from 2015 baseline22 •  Power 50% of our global operations with renewable  sources of energy23 by 2025 and 100% by 2035 Metric CY2024 CY202324 CY202224 Annual Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions  million metric tons carbon dioxide"
"equivalent (MMT CO2e) 15.65 15.47 15.22 Scope 1 MMT CO2e 9.03 8.93 8.53 Scope 2 (market-based) MMT CO2e 6.61 6.54 6.69 Percent change in annual  Scope 1 & 2 market based  emissions (vs. CY2015 baseline) -18.1% -19.0% -20.3% Percent change in annual  Scope 1 & 2 market-based emissions  (vs. previous year) +1.1% +1.7% +0.7% Estimated percentage of global  electricity needs supplied by  renewable sources25 48.5% 47.6% 46.6% 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 $350,000 $400,000 $450,000 $500,000 $550,000 $600,000"
"$650,000 $700,000 FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 FY2022 FY2021 FY2020 FY2019 FY2018 FY2017 FY2016 43.65 $482,130 $485,873 $500,343 $514,405 $523,964 $559,151 $572,754 $611,289 $648,125 40.01 37.83 34.05 32.75 29.90 26.60 24.89 23.87 $680,985 22.98 Carbon Intensity Scope 1 & 2 (market-based) MT CO2e / $M Revenue Total Annual Revenue  ($M, FY) Emissions Intensity MT CO2e per $M revenue 0 5 10 15 20 CY2024 CY2023 CY2022 CY2021 CY2020 CY2019 CY2018 CY2017 CY2016 CY2015 5.97 5.74 5.86 5.65 7.39 8.09 6.22 8.53"
"13.12 12.03 11.68 10.78 9.76 8.20 7.01 6.69 8.93 6.54 9.03 6.61 Scope 1 Scope 2 (market-based) Annual GHG Emissions MMT CO2e, adjusted 21   Calculated in accordance with the RE100 technical criteria. RE100 defines renewable electricity consumption as the ability to make unique claims on the use of renewable electricity generation and its attributes. 22 In 2020, we raised our aspiration to reduce emissions in our operations (Scope 1 & 2) by realigning our science-based target to a 1.5°C-aligned"
"trajectory. Our goal is to achieve zero emissions across Walmart’s global operations by 2040, reducing absolute Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions 35% by 2025 and 65% by 2030 from our 2015 base year (interim targets approved as science-based and classified as 1.5°C-aligned by Science Based  Targets initiative (SBTi). 23        As used herein, “renewable sources of energy” means renewable sources of electricity and is not intended to cover other sources of energy. 24   CY2022 and CY2023 GHG emissions have"
"been restated. 25  This includes generation from active renewable and low-carbon projects. It considers the combined contribution of power generated from onsite and offsite projects as well as renewable energy generation feeding into the grids where our sites are located. The electricity procured from our renewable energy projects and the most recent grid fuel mix information obtained from the International Energy Agency for  the regions where we operate. FY2025 ESG Report  30  INTRODUCTION"
"OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions  Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Scope 1: 9.03 MMT CO2e   Scope 2 (market-based): 6.61 MMT CO2e   Walmart’s CY2024 Operational Emissions Percent of Total Scope 1 & 2 GHG Emissions   0.4%   Scope 1 - Mobile Refrigerants 10.4% 13.9%   32.9%  42.3%  Scope 1 - Onsite Refrigerants Scope 1 -"
"Stationary Fuel Scope 2 - Electricity Scope 1 - Transportation Fuel Transportation In 2024, our fleet (transport fuel and mobile refrigerants) contributed 24.9% of our Scope 1  emissions (14.4% of overall operational emissions). While we aspire to achieve zero  emissions from our vehicles and transportation network, relevant technologies for  the highest-emitting sources—including Class 8 tractors, refrigerated trailers, and yard  trucks—are nascent, and meaningfully addressing transportation-"
"related emissions will  take many years. Additionally, business growth and bringing former third-party miles into  the Walmart network has pressured our transportation-related emissions (7.0% increase  in 2024; 19.6% increase on a two-year stack). Although it is unlikely that our transportation- related emissions will decline over the next few years, Walmart is employing several  strategies to make headway. For example: •  Operationalizing New Technologies: We are piloting innovative"
"technologies, including  heavy-duty battery EVs and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles (e.g., transitioning to liquid  hydrogen‑operated forklifts and opening the first industrial-scale renewable hydrogen  plant in Latin America which aims to power our hydrogen-powered forklifts in Chile). •     Class 8 Heavy-Duty and Yard Truck Innovations: We support the development of  new technologies like renewable diesel,26 battery-electric, and hydrogen fuels through  feasibility testing and collaboration with"
"manufacturers to ensure vehicle technology  meets industry needs. For example, we are piloting electric semi-trucks in our fleet and  currently use electric yard trucks at some facilities, which have demonstrated over a  75% emissions reduction, per hour of operation, compared to diesel-powered vehicles. Stationary Fuels In 2024, stationary fuels (e.g., fossil fuels used for heating, cooling, and backup power)  contributed 18.1% of our Scope 1 emissions (10.4% of our overall operational"
"emissions).  Emissions related to stationary fuel use increased 4.9% in 2024 (15.1% increase vs.  2015 baseline). Onsite Refrigerants Delivering fresh and frozen food safely to millions of people in pleasant shopping  environments requires refrigeration and air-cooling equipment that uses refrigerants. While  onsite refrigerant emissions contributed 57.0% of our 2024 Scope 1 emissions (32.9% of our  total operational emissions), our global onsite refrigerant emissions decreased by 2.4% in  2024,"
"primarily due to the continued rollout of lower-GWP systems. Strategies to reduce  refrigerant emissions include: Managing Refrigerant Gas Leaks: Managing refrigerant leaks is critical for reducing  operational emissions, particularly while we continue to deploy lower-GWP refrigerant  systems across our stores, clubs, and distribution centers. Walmart’s refrigerant leak  rate has been significantly lower than industry averages (per the EPA GreenChill Program)  over the past few years, and we are"
"employing several strategies to bring it down  even further: •   Enhancing preventive maintenance (all Walmart U.S. stores are now undergoing a  preventive maintenance review annually) •       Improving technician training and resources, including hiring and bringing in-house  more than 600 HVAC/refrigeration technicians •     Leveraging AI tools and machine learning for early leak detection and predicting  potential leak events •       Implementing solutions for reuse, including banking used"
"gas for reuse. Investing in Lower-GWP Systems: Most of our facilities still use higher-GWP systems  prevalent at the time of initial construction. We support policies that promote phasing out  high-GWP refrigerants and have earmarked capital toward replacing aging U.S. refrigeration  equipment with lower-GWP alternatives (including ultra-low GWP systems) and installing  lower-GWP systems in new builds where commercially available. As of 2024, we operate  408 U.S. facilities that fully or in-part"
"utilize ultra-low‑GWP refrigerants including CO2, glycol,  and ammonia. Our U.S. conversion schedule is based on equipment end-of-life and local  commercial availability of new technologies. We have committed capital to replace aging equipment in the U.S. at an accelerated  pace and anticipate curbing leaks as newer equipment is brought online. However, these  technologies require time to mature and scale. The market and regulatory environment may  evolve, and unforeseen events could arise."
"Additionally, we expect deployment across our  business to fluctuate year-to-year as our business grows and transforms. 26       For further information, visit the U.S. Department of Energy’s Alternative Fuels Data Center. FY2025 ESG Report  31  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions  Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability"
"Engaging Stakeholders to Lower Value Chain Emissions  (Scope 3) Addressing indirect—Scope 3—emissions is a foundational stakeholder expectation  and helps us mitigate certain transition-related risks (e.g., embedded carbon costs and  increased costs of production associated with the products we source and sell, as well as  shifting customer preferences). Value chain initiatives that reduce emissions can also deliver  business benefits such as surety of supply, cost efficiencies, and new growth"
"opportunities. For more than a decade, Walmart has engaged suppliers to take actions that deliver real  and significant reductions in retail value chain emissions and reporting transparently on  outcomes. These efforts continue today, with our ongoing Project Gigaton engagement acting  as a key lever for reducing the overall intensity of Scope 3 emissions across our business. Retail Scope 3 Emissions What Are Retail Scope 3 Emissions? Scope 3 emissions come from activities upstream and"
"downstream of a retailer’s  direct operations: •        Upstream: Suppliers and production activities such as raw material processing,  energy used in manufacturing facilities, agricultural emissions, and  transportation. •         Downstream: Customer use of products, such as appliances (e.g., emissions from  household electricity) and food (e.g., off-gassing of disposed, uneaten food). Significant reduction in indirect emissions requires transformation of energy,  materials, transportation,"
"and food systems through the efforts of many across the  public sector, civil society, and the private sector. Such emissions are also difficult  to estimate (let alone measure) because of the extensive scope and complexity of  supply chains across hundreds of thousands of items. What Has Walmart Been Doing to Address Scope 3 Emissions? Although the emissions associated with the production and use of products are  beyond our direct control, Walmart has engaged suppliers in efforts to reduce"
"emissions and enhance the resilience of product value chains for more than a decade. In 2010, Walmart set a target to eliminate an estimated 20 million metric tons of  GHG emissions from our global supply chain and announced achievement of this  target in 2015. In 2016, Walmart became the first retailer to set a Scope 3 target approved by SBTi  through Project Gigaton, committing to engage suppliers to reduce, avoid, or  sequester 1 billion metric tons of GHG emissions in their product value"
"chains from  2017 to 2030. We announced achievement of this goal in February 2024. How Does Walmart Report on Scope 3 Emissions? Walmart reports on Scope 3 emissions and activities in two distinct—but related—ways: •    Project Gigaton: Walmart engages suppliers to pursue projects having a  measurable reduction on GHG emissions anywhere in their value chains. We  report on the cumulative emissions impact of these projects (as reported by our  suppliers) using science-based “calculators” to"
"estimate the emissions impact  of each project. •    Scope 3 Footprint: A broad estimate of indirect emissions associated with our  business, primarily relating to the production and consumption of the products  we sell globally. The footprint is primarily determined based on high-level  category sales data and industry average emissions factors. Data gaps and nascent Scope 3 estimation methodologies mean that supply  chain efforts and results cannot be fully reconciled with our Scope 3"
"footprint.  Nevertheless, we expect our Scope 3 footprint to be positively impacted as Walmart  continues to engage our supply chain to address key sources of Scope 3 emissions,  and as we get supplier data that more accurately reflects real-world circumstances. Project Gigaton In 2016, Walmart became the first retailer to set an SBTi-approved target for emissions  reduction, which included a goal to help reduce, avoid, or sequester 1 billion metric tons  (a gigaton) of CO2e in global product"
"value chains by 2030. We worked with World Wildlife Fund (WWF), Environmental Defense Fund (EDF),  and CDP to develop programs to engage suppliers, NGOs, and others in reducing  major emissions in global value chains. Through this engagement, Walmart encourages  suppliers to take immediate action on six key action areas that are the most significant  sources of emissions for their operations and value chains: energy, transportation, product  design, waste, packaging, and nature. Project Gigaton"
"engagement and resources include: •        Setting Action Plans: We encourage suppliers to sign on to action plans to reduce  emissions across the six action areas noted above. Support includes: •       Providing calculators to help suppliers identify relevant opportunities to  mitigate emissions •        Setting product standards and requirements, including certification requirements  •     Supporting Actions and Interventions: We engage our suppliers to understand  and design interventions to"
"help mitigate emissions generally and in challenging  GHG‑intensive product categories. Actions and interventions include: •   Hosting webinars and summits to provide training and share best practices •     Offering programs to help accelerate impact, such as the Gigaton PPA and  Circular Connector •  Providing tools and playbooks, such as the Place Based Projects Map •   Helping suppliers secure financial support by working with CDP and HSBC  to provide an early-payment program for qualified"
"suppliers. •         Reporting and Recognition: We encourage suppliers to increase their engagement,  publicly recognizing them with “Sparking Change” or “Giga Guru” status based  on increasing levels of ambition in goal-setting and reporting. To further facilitate  reporting and transparency, Walmart allows suppliers to leverage their CDP disclosures  to report to Project Gigaton. In February 2024, we shared the successful completion of our initial Project Gigaton  goal more than six years"
"ahead of our target date—announcing that our suppliers  had reported projects that are expected to exceed 1 billion metric tons of cumulative  emissions reduced, avoided, or sequestered by 2030. Although we achieved our 1 billion metric tons goal, we are continuing to engage suppliers  under the Project Gigaton banner to further accelerate emissions reduction across the  value chain in ways that are positive for our customers, suppliers, farmers and other  producers, and communities. FY2025 ESG"
"Report  32  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions  Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Project Gigaton Progress MMT CO2e expected cumulative emissions reduced, avoided, or sequestered by supplier actions (supplier reported) Million Metric Tons (MMT) CO2e -1,200 -1,000 -800 -600 -400 -200 0 FY2018 (35) FY2019 (59) FY2020"
"(137) FY2021 (186) FY2022 (158) FY2023 (176) FY2024 (250) FY2025 (198) Total (1,199) Project Gigaton Action Areas (FY2025) MMT CO2e expected to be reduced, avoided, or sequestered by action area Energy 61.8 Waste 49.5 Product 43.4 Enterprise 17.6 Nature 10.5 Packaging 9.8 Transport 6.2 Project Gigaton Pillars and Action Pillar Relevance for GHG Reduction Supplier Actions Encouraged Example Support Energy Energy generation and procurement is often a key  source of a business’s GHG emissions."
"Avoid energy-related emissions by reducing energy  demand through optimization and efficiency and  transitioning to renewable energy sources. •     Calculators to understand impacts of specific changes on  GHG emissions •       Tools/playbooks (e.g., Factory Energy Efficiency tool) •        Gigaton PPA •   Advocacy and engagement in consortia (e.g., Better Buildings  Alliance, Clean Energy Buyers Association) Nature Scientists estimate that restoring, renewing, and  replenishing nature can"
"provide one-third of the  solution to climate change. Help protect and restore forests, grasslands, and  seascapes; adopt sustainable agriculture practices  such as cover crops and manure management. •    Calculators to understand impacts of specific changes on  GHG emissions •       Product specifications and standards (e.g., Forest Policy,  Pollinator Health Position)  •      Best practice forums (e.g., Beef Summit, Row Crop Summit, Seafood  Summit) •    Philanthropic investments (e.g., forest"
"traceability/monitoring  tools) Waste Reducing and diverting waste can have a significant  impact on GHG emissions. Address food, product, and material waste from  factories, warehouses, distribution centers, and farms. •   Calculators to understand impacts of specific changes on  GHG emissions •       Advocacy and engagement in consortia (e.g., “10x20x30”  initiative, Consumer Goods Forum Food Waste Coalition) •        Philanthropic investments (e.g., World Resources Institute training  and"
"technical assistance on reducing food waste and loss, Closed  Loop Infrastructure Fund) Packaging The creation of packaging generates emissions;  reducing packaging and using more efficient materials  can reduce emissions. Reduce unnecessary packaging, use better packaging  materials, and increase packaging reuse and recycling.  •   Calculators to understand impacts of specific changes on  GHG emissions •       Packaging standards and specifications •        Best practice forums (e.g., Packaging"
"Innovation Summit) •      Tools and playbooks (e.g., Walmart Recycling Playbook, Plastic IQ) •    Programs (e.g., Circular Connector)  •  Advocacy and engagement in consortia (e.g., Consumer Goods  Forum’s Plastics Coalition, Polypropylene Recycling Coalition) Transportation Fossil-fuel‑powered vehicles produce GHG emissions  during their operation and are typically a major source  of value chain emissions. Improve fleet efficiencies, optimize routes, and  introduce zero-emission vehicles. •"
"Calculators to understand impacts of specific changes on  GHG emissions •       Advocacy (e.g., collaboration with PepsiCo on public policy  principles for zero-emissions commercial transportation fleets) Product Use  & Design Customer use of energy-consuming products and care  and disposal of sold products results in the generation  of GHG emissions. Design products to reduce emissions throughout  the product lifecycle, from use of raw materials in  manufacturing the product (e.g.,"
"incorporating  recycled content) through consumer use (e.g.,  LED lightbulbs). •        Calculators to understand impacts of specific changes on  GHG emissions •       Tools and playbooks (e.g., Sustainable Packaging Playbook,  Golden Design Rules) •      Advocacy and engagement in consortia (e.g., Consumer Goods  Forum principles on Extended Producer Responsibility) •     Philanthropic investments (e.g., Accelerating Circularity—reduce  textile waste) FY2025 ESG Report  33  INTRODUCTION"
"OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions  Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Scope 3 Footprint Walmart has reported broad estimates of our Scope 3 emissions footprint since 2017,  using evolving and increasingly more comprehensive methodologies over time. Since 2022, the Walmart global Scope 3 emissions footprint estimate has been"
"aligned  with the current GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Standard. The  metric represents a very broad, order-of-magnitude estimate, based on aggregate  product category sales and publicly available emissions factors for the production and  consumption of our assortment, including (based on the accounting protocol) the lifetime  emissions of energy-using products based on the electricity grids powering customer  households around the world.27 The scope of our calculated and"
"reported footprint includes Walmart Inc. markets that  individually account for at least 5% of overall Scope 3 emissions and the GHG Protocol  categories most relevant for a multi-category retailer: Category 1 (purchased goods and  services), Category 2 (capital goods), Category 11 (use of sold products), and Category 12  (end-of-life treatment of sold products). Cumulatively, these four categories represent  more than 95% of Walmart’s global Scope 3 emissions. Scope 3 Metrics CY2024 CY202328"
"CY202228 Estimated Scope 3 footprint (MMT CO2e)29,30 636.57 625.30 609.82 Scope 3 intensity (MMT CO2e / $ billion  fiscal year net sales)31 0.94 0.97 1.00 Scope 3 intensity change  (vs. CY2022 baseline) -6.2% -3.3% — Building on the success of our Project Gigaton initiatives, we seek to reduce the emissions  intensity of our product assortment (Scope 3 CO2e per net sales dollar) through the  following initiatives: •        Engaging suppliers through the continuation of Project Gigaton, through"
"which suppliers  pursue efforts to decarbonize their supply chains •    Advocating for the adoption of policies intended to reduce emissions; expand availability  of clean, renewable energy; and scale innovations •  Defining commodity sourcing expectations to help reduce/eliminate deforestation and  land conversion. Read more in the Regeneration of Natural Resources section and our  Forests Policy. •     Supporting innovations in product design and packaging. Read more in the Waste:  Circular"
"Economy section. •    Supporting industry supply chain innovation and traceability tools through Walmart  and Walmart Foundation grants. Read more in the Regeneration of Natural Resources  section. •       Offering our customers an assortment of products and services that enable them to  reduce energy usage and save money. We expect that our Scope 3 footprint will vary year-to-year and will depend on: •        Factors beyond our control, including changes in energy grids (e.g., emissions to"
"produce electricity) in regions from which we source and where our customers live,  availability of emissions data, agricultural production methods, transportation methods  and technologies, waste handling infrastructure, customer purchasing decisions and  use patterns, inflation or deflation, government policy, and supplier ability to make  meaningful changes; •        Composition of Walmart’s net sales (e.g., changes in product category mix, growth in  net sales from strategic initiatives); •"
"The availability of high-quality data—Walmart’s Scope 3 estimates currently depend  largely on industry average emissions factors; estimates may improve as more suppliers  provide reliable information about their production methods, item attributes, and/or  emissions allocations for Walmart; •  Changes to the GHG Protocol. 27        For additional information on the complexity of Scope 3 measurement, accounting and reporting challenges, please see Retailers’ climate road map: Charting paths to"
"decarbonized value chains. 28       CY2022 and CY2023 GHG emissions have been restated. 29  Estimated Scope 3 emissions for GHG Protocol Categories 1, 2, 11, and 12 include key markets and represent more than 95% of Walmart’s comprehensive Scope 3 footprint. Key markets include Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India (Flipkart), Mexico, and U.S. 30 Changes in disclosure regulations, carbon accounting methodologies (e.g., GHG Protocol), and data availability may impact our footprint and"
"progress toward our target. GHG Protocol Category 11 includes the total lifetime emissions from products sold in the reporting year, not just the emissions from their use in that year. 31  Scope 3 carbon intensity (reported Scope 3 MMT CO2e emissions per $B net sales for Walmart Inc.) calculation is based on calendar year emissions (January 1–December 31) and normalized by total annual net sales as measured by Walmart’s fiscal year (February 1-January 31). FY2025 ESG Report  34  INTRODUCTION"
"OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions  Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Adaptation Adapting our operations and sourcing to enhance resilience against extreme weather  events, extreme heat, and other factors stemming from a changing climate helps  us address our most significant climate-related physical risks and ensure we’re"
"well- positioned to serve associates, customers, and communities when they need us most. Strengthening Operations Disruptions from floods, hurricanes, or other severe weather can force store closures,  damage inventory, and disrupt supply chains, directly impacting our ability to serve  customers. We are enhancing our ability to avoid risk, maintain business continuity, and  quickly restore operations in areas most likely to experience disruptions through: Site Planning •        Flood"
"mitigation: Raising foundation heights; installation of redundant utility  connections and critical systems above potential flood levels •        Grading and runoff: Improving drainage systems around stores and distribution  centers; installing storm water retention basins Materials Selection •   Hurricane resilience: Reinforcing roof structures to withstand high winds; installing  hurricane-rated glass; reinforced concrete exteriors •   Flood mitigation: Waterproofing critical infrastructure"
"and storage areas Transportation and Supply Chain •     Network design: Implementing backup power systems, including generators at  distribution centers and select stores •    Geographic redundancy: Ensuring distribution network can compensate if one  facility is compromised by extreme weather Electricity and Utilities •      Preventing disruptions: Installed backup power systems, including generators Additionally, we continuously enhance coordination between our Global Emergency  Management"
"team, which operates our 24/7 GSOC, and local facilities to prepare  buildings ahead of forecasted events. Our team includes associates with expertise in law  enforcement, meteorology, emergency management, and resilience planning. Using data  from the National Hurricane Center and Weather Prediction Center, we assess risks from  developing events to prepare the most impacted areas. We use data from previous events  to anticipate customer and community needs, help us determine where we may need"
"to  direct necessary supplies and personnel, prepare associates in the field with knowledge  about available resources, and help inform plans to maintain or quickly restore operations  if similar situations arise in the future. Supply Chain Resilience Walmart has implemented strategies to increase supply chain resilience and ensure  continuity of product availability. For example: Supplier Diversification and Country of Origin Strategies: While more than two-thirds  of our U.S. product spend is"
"on products made, grown, or assembled domestically, we  depend on globally sourced products to complete our assortment. This geographic  spread helps mitigate risks from localized disruptions like natural disasters, political  instability, or regional transportation issues. Walmart also maintains relationships with  multiple suppliers for critical products to reduce dependencies on single sources and  invests in supplier capacity development to create a more diverse supplier ecosystem.  Read"
"more in the Supplier Opportunity section. Local Sourcing Initiatives: Walmart has increased local and regional sourcing for certain  products to reduce transportation dependencies. For example, for fresh produce, we  work to establish direct relationships with local farmers. This “farm-to-store” approach  means fresher products with less transportation time and reduced vulnerability to national  distribution disruptions. In our international markets, Walmart maintains country-specific  sourcing"
"teams that help develop local supply networks. Advanced Inventory Management Systems: We utilize forecasting technology to predict  demand patterns and adjust inventory levels accordingly. For certain product categories,  Walmart has moved into production and manufacturing to maintain greater control over  supply and availability. Sourcing Innovation: We utilize AI-driven agriculture platforms and advanced data on  crop health, yield predictions, and seasonal changes to identify new products,"
"unique  commodity varietals, and innovative manufacturing methods that are less susceptible  to extreme weather. This is intended to help ensure a consistent supply of high-quality  products and enhance our resilience in the future. Transforming Product Supply Chains for Long-Term Sustainability: Because agricultural  commodities can be especially susceptible to severe weather events, Walmart has prioritized  strategic initiatives to enhance commodity supply chain sustainability and resilience."
"Walmart’s efforts include setting sourcing requirements and product specifications for  suppliers, engaging suppliers in measurement and best practice sharing, supporting  industry collaboration, engaging our customers, public policy advocacy, and philanthropy. Read more in the Regeneration of Natural Resources section. FY2025 ESG Report  35  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions  Regeneration of Natural Resources"
"Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Advocacy We believe the transition to a lower-emissions world is necessary to avoid the worst  physical impacts of a changing climate. But how we get there matters. Public policy  significantly influences both the creation and mitigation of transition risks: Poor public  policy can create unnecessary burdens and stifle innovation and action, but well-designed  policy creates strong economic"
"incentives to mitigate and adapt in ways that benefit our  company and our stakeholders. Walmart’s Board-approved Statement on Climate Policy guides our advocacy efforts  relating to energy and emissions. We advocate for a range of policies (e.g., clean-energy  transportation innovation, technology-neutral approaches for hard-to-decarbonize  sectors and industries) to accelerate emissions reductions while supporting business and  economic growth. For further discussion on our approach to"
"advocacy, read more in the  Responsible Engagement in Public Policy section and see our Key Trade Associations  and Other Business Coalitions for more information. Challenges •     While Walmart can play a substantial role through our own operations, supply chain,  and beyond, achieving the IPCC goal of reducing global GHG emissions to net-zero by  2050 requires action from all parts of society. Walmart’s ability to reduce emissions is  dependent on the collaboration, cooperation, and"
"performance of third parties (including  governments, civil society, and industry, as well as our own suppliers and customers). •  Factors beyond Walmart’s control impact our ability to achieve climate-related targets  and aspirations, including changes to energy grids in every region where we operate  or source; our physical presence in geographic areas without available necessary  technology, equipment, or capabilities; and weather patterns. •  Achieving our aspirations will require innovation"
"and technology that is not available,  economically viable, or fully scalable today. This includes the evolution, accessibility,  and/or adoption of renewable energy, lower-GWP refrigeration systems, vehicles  powered by renewable sources of energy, and regenerative agricultural technologies.  A critical mass of potential consumers of new technologies is a necessary precondition  to their development, deployment, and scaling. •       The capital and operating costs of implementing projects"
"(e.g., transitioning to low-GWP  refrigerants, vehicles powered by renewable sources of energy) will remain a challenge  for the foreseeable future. Low market prices and volatility of the price of fossil fuels can  influence the cost/benefit analyses. •         Walmart’s business will continue to evolve and grow. Growth and changes in our  strategies and/or model may require us to include additional facilities and new sources  of GHG emissions in our inventory, which creates additional"
"challenges for absolute  emissions reduction targets. •    Several factors can make it challenging to estimate emissions, present a consistent view  of progress over time, and/or achieve our targets, including: standards for target-setting  and calculating GHG emissions are not settled and change from time to time (which may  cause calculations to shift dramatically although no changes to underlying practices  have taken place—e.g., the recent introduction of forest, land, and agriculture"
"guidance;  regulatory calculation and reporting standards may be introduced and may differ from  commonly used voluntary standards; and emissions factors and industry averages used  to calculate emissions may change and lag, leading to updates and restatements. •      Public policies may not support actions aligned with Walmart’s targets and aspirations,  including by not encouraging the development and deployment of low-carbon or  low-emissions technologies at scale and/or that negatively"
"impact the supply or cost  of renewable energy projects at scale. •   Uncertainties around mandatory climate-related disclosures and shifting stakeholder  expectations toward greater action and commitment create tensions that are difficult to  reconcile and may leave some stakeholders unsatisfied. FY2025 ESG Report  36  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions  Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy"
"People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Regeneration of Natural Resources Our Aspiration We aspire to operate our business in a regenerative  way, helping to more sustainably manage, restore, and  conserve the landscapes and seascapes that sustain  our product supply chains and customer communities.  Relevance to Our Business and Society Many of the products we sell—from produce and  seafood to sheets and shampoo—come from or depend  on nature, and others may"
"impact nature through their  use. Communities, and our physical operations, also  depend on nature for climate regulation, fresh water,  storm and flood protection, soil regulation, and energy.  Stakeholders—including governments, customers,  communities, and shareholders—expect Walmart to run  our business in a way that contributes to positive nature  outcomes and sustains critical resources for the future. Our Approach Governance and Transparency: Ensuring our nature  strategy is appropriately"
"managed and overseen. Assessing Nature-Related Business Risks: Identifying  impacts, dependencies, and opportunities that may  impact our business now and in the future. Fostering More Sustainable Production of  Commodities: Meeting consumer demand while helping  ecosystems thrive. Supporting Conservation and Restoration: Protecting  critical ecosystems through efforts in our own operations,  partnerships, and philanthropy. Fostering an Enabling Environment: Activating public  policy, multi-"
"stakeholder initiatives, and philanthropy. FY2025 ESG Report  37  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions  Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Governance and Transparency Walmart’s nature strategy is developed and led by our corporate sustainability team, in  collaboration with operators, sourcing, merchants, and others"
"to ensure strategies are  business-relevant and embedded in ways of working. Walmart’s Executive Council receives  periodic updates on the company’s strategies and performance related to nature. The ESG  Disclosure Committee—a subcommittee of the company’s Disclosure Committee chaired by  our CSO—oversees Walmart’s public disclosures related to nature. Additionally, certain nature- related risks are evaluated annually as part of the company’s ERM framework, and ERM outputs  are discussed with"
"the Governance Risk Committee and other standing company committees. Within the Board of Directors, the NGC has oversight responsibility for matters related to the  Company’s sustainability initiatives. The Audit Committee of the Board oversees overall risk  identification, monitoring, and mitigation processes, and the results of the annual ERM process  are shared with the Audit Committee. Read more in the Corporate Governance section. Nature Walmart and Walmart Foundation Goal: Help more"
"sustainably manage,  protect and/or restore at least 50 million acres of land and 1 million square  miles of ocean 2030. Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Total acres of land engaged in more sustainable management,  protection, and/or restoration 43.3 million acres 33.6 million acres  30.5 million acres  Acres of land engaged in more sustainable management (as  reported by suppliers) in the production of priority commodities Basic: 28.7 million acres Better: 7.60 million acres Best: 690,000 acres"
"Total: 37.0 million acres Basic: 20.6 million acres  Better: 7.62 million acres Best: 1.81 million acres Total: 30.0 million acres — Acres of land protected and/or restored (as reported by suppliers) 4.18 million acres 1.28 million acres — Total acres of land conserved through Acres for America  since 2005 2.00 million acres 2.10 million acres 2.00 million acres Acres more sustainably managed, protected, and/or restored via  Walmart Foundation grants (as reported by grantees)32 127,300 acres"
"256,462 acres 29,153 acres Total square miles of ocean engaged in more sustainable  management, protection, and/or restoration 1.93 million square miles 1.92 million square miles  1.46 million square miles Square miles of ocean engaged in more sustainable management  (as reported by suppliers) Basic: 0.76 million square miles Better: 1.07 million square miles Best: 21,000 square miles Total: 1.85 million square miles Basic: 1.02 million square miles  Better: 880,000 square miles  Best: 22,700"
"square miles Total: 1.92 million square miles — Square miles of ocean protected and/or restored (as reported  by suppliers) 74,000 square miles 2,100 square miles — 32   Walmart Foundation grants made from FY2021-FY2025 did not cover the protection, more sustainable management, and/or restoration of square miles of ocean. FY2025 ESG Report  38  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions Regeneration of Natural Resources"
"Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Assessing Nature-Related Business Risks Many of the products we sell come directly from nature or are derived from nature. Shifts in  weather patterns, as well as human behaviors, affect natural ecosystems, creating risks for  business, including disruption of supply chains and our ability to source certain products. Walmart periodically conducts nature risk assessments to help identify those risks"
"that may impact our business today and in the future, as well as the expected type  and magnitude of those impacts. These assessments also help us surface business  opportunities. In 2020, we collaborated with Conservation International to evaluate our key nature- related dependencies, impacts, risks, and opportunities. The assessment focused on  high-value landscapes and seascapes, our estimated product sourcing footprint,33 and  opportunities for Walmart and the Walmart Foundation to"
"positively impact nature by  reducing and reversing nature loss. As a result, we prioritized the sustainable  management, protection, and restoration of ecosystems (e.g., forests, grasslands,  freshwater, and oceans) related to the production of 13 commodities estimated to be  produced across 50 million acres of land and 1 million square miles of ocean. Based on our nature assessment, and in support of our ambition to become a regenerative  company, Walmart and the Walmart Foundation set a goal"
"to help more sustainably  manage, protect, and/or restore at least 50 million acres of land and 1 million square miles  of ocean by 2030. 2024 Nature Risk Assessment We updated our nature risk assessment in 2024 to align with the TNFD framework  and consider nature-related business risks that could reasonably be expected to be  strategically and operationally relevant for our business over various time horizons  and scenarios. The nature risk assessment considered: •  Scope: Physical and"
"transition risks with the potential to significantly impact Walmart’s  business, including retail operations, manufacturing, and sourcing •         Horizons: One year (short-term), five years (medium-term), 15 years (long-term), with  short-term and medium-term risks aligned with Walmart’s annual and long-range  planning cycles •         Thresholds and Factors: Qualitative and quantitative factors used to determine  likelihood and impact aligned with general company practices for assessing risk"
"and  financial materiality, using the most recent relevant financial data for the aspect of our  business being assessed •      Scenarios: Relevant scenarios for different physical and transition phenomena,  including PRI Inevitable Policy Response Forecast Policy Scenario + Nature, WWF Water  Risk Filter 2030 Pessimistic Water Scarcity Scenario, OCED Global Ambition Circular  Plastics Scenario. The nature risk assessment proceeded in three phases: •  Locate: A mapping and examination of"
"approximately 160 unique activities associated  with our business (upstream, operational, and downstream) that could have nature-related  risks, dependencies, or opportunities, using Exploring Natural Capital Opportunities, Risks,  and Exposure (ENCORE), a leading tool for assessing dependencies and impacts at  the business level. For business activities rated as having medium, high, or very high  impacts and dependencies, Walmart data was then used to further refine the activity,  asset, or"
"location, as relevant. •  Evaluate: Using Walmart’s business information and financial data—including data  relating to more than 100 commodities and products34 from across our assortment— we refined the analysis to identify specific impacts, dependencies, and opportunities  that could be strategically or operationally relevant for our business. Climate-related  impacts, dependencies, and opportunities were screened out at this stage, as they  were covered by our separate climate risk"
"assessment. •   Assess: Relevant impacts, dependencies, and opportunities were then translated into  specific risk statements using TNFD’s risk register, and relevant scenarios were applied  to better understand the potential financial magnitude of each. Results were validated  for completeness and consistency with TNFD literature, Science Based Targets  Network’s high-impact commodities list, and Walmart’s own historical experiences.  Results were plotted based on likelihood and magnitude."
"Regular Monitoring of Nature-Related Risks  and Opportunities Walmart regularly monitors and identifies nature-related risks and opportunities across its  business segments. Management is responsible for the annual ERM process and the day- to-day management of risks, including strategic, reputational, financial, legal, regulatory and  compliance, and operational risks. Nature-related risks—including the outputs of the risk  assessment discussed above—are included in this process. Relevant"
"business segments (e.g.,  sourcing) also consider nature-related issues as part of their annual and long-term strategic  and operating plan development. Walmart also monitors and seeks out nature-related  opportunities—for example, the opportunity for suppliers to work with farmers to increase  yields and resilience while reducing input costs through regenerative agriculture. Key Findings and Example Mitigation Strategies We identified several nature-related risks that were deemed strategically"
"and operationally  relevant for our business. These risks largely align with strategies previously developed as  a result of earlier assessments. Nature- Related Risk Example Mitigation Strategies;  Current Approaches Decreased water  availability and  resulting policy  response Implementing policies and positions that seek to address water  concerns (e.g., Sustainable Row Crop Position Statement; place- based initiatives (PBI) for water-intensive commodities such as  rice); responsible public"
"policy engagement; maintaining broad  product mix at everyday low prices Decreased  availability of  agriculturally  productive land Engaging farmers and producers on regenerative practices  across commodities (e.g., row crops, coffee, and cocoa) Decrease in GDP  and consumer  spending Engaging suppliers to more sustainably manage, protect, and/or  restore 50 million acres of land and 1 million square miles  of ocean; implementing our Forest Policy, Seafood Policy,  Sustainable Row Crop Position"
"Statement, and U.S. Pollinator  Health Position; Walmart Foundation investments to help more  sustainably manage, protect, and/or restore natural resources Increasing  regulation and/ or litigation  (e.g., pollution,  land use) Establishing standards (e.g., Standards for Suppliers, Code of  Conduct, Forest Policy, Seafood Policy); supplier engagement  in more sustainably producing products (e.g., emissions,  packaging, nature initiatives); participation in industry coalitions  (e.g., Consumer"
"Goods Forum) to develop best practices (e.g.,  avoiding deforestation; packaging design); Walmart and Walmart  Foundation grants to address systemic challenges; public policy  advocacy (e.g., supporting well-designed Extended Producer  Responsibility (EPR), renewable energy) Shifts in  consumer  demand Sustainability initiatives to address emissions, waste, and nature  issues in the production of products; business and philanthropic  initiatives to promote nature conservation and restoration;"
"maintaining a relevant assortment that responds to consumer  needs and preferences within and across categories 33      Through our work with Conservation International, we identified beef production as using the largest amount of land—primarily for grazing—followed by the commodity row crops of wheat, corn/maize, soybeans, rice, and cotton; forest products like cocoa, coffee, pulp/paper/timber, and palm oil; as well as seafood commodities like tuna, shrimp, and salmon.  34  These  commodities"
"and products include avocados, bananas, tomatoes, lemons/limes, strawberries, eggs, beef, coffee, rubber, furniture (e.g., timber, living room furniture, bedroom furniture), household products (e.g., auto chemicals, pool and spa chemicals, air fresheners), plastics, palm oil, soybeans, cocoa, corn, dairy, poultry, nuts, pork, tobacco, cotton, sugarcane, fish. FY2025 ESG Report  39  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and"
"Emissions Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Fostering More Sustainable  Production of Commodities Because our potentially significant nature-related risks and dependencies relate to  the products we source and sell, we seek to foster more sustainable production of  commodities in key ecosystems. Forests: Many of the products we sell include ingredients that come from forests and  related"
"ecosystems. Wildfires and agricultural expansion, among other factors, have  contributed to deforestation in certain regions. Walmart’s forest-related initiatives aim to  protect and restore high-value forests and related mixed vegetation ecosystems while  fostering more sustainable agriculture and forest management practices. Grasslands and Freshwater: Agricultural lands within grassland and freshwater  ecosystems produce commodities like beef, corn, soy, rice, and cotton that go into  products"
"Walmart sells. Yet, grassland and freshwater ecosystems are under pressure  from agricultural expansion, increased weather volatility, and degraded soils. Our  grasslands and regenerative agriculture initiatives focus on encouraging adoption  of regenerative agriculture practices to increase yields and enhance nature impact  (e.g., soil health, pollinator health, and nutrient runoff), restoration of degraded lands,  and avoidance of grasslands conversion. Oceans: Oceans sustain a healthy planet,"
"helping to regulate our climate, providing  oxygen, supporting livelihoods, and providing food. Several commodities important  to Walmart customers—including tuna, shrimp, and salmon—rely on healthy ocean  ecosystems. Yet, oceans are at risk from illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing,  pollution, and climate change. Our ocean initiatives aim to foster more sustainable  fisheries and aquaculture through supplier engagement, industry initiatives, and  philanthropic investments. We aim to"
"foster more sustainable production of priority commodities in these  ecosystems by: •    Setting product sourcing standards •    Engaging suppliers (and others) in continuous improvement to implement and report  on more sustainable production practices in Walmart’s supply chains and beyond •     Supporting the development of place-based initiatives (also known as jurisdictional  or landscape-level initiatives). Setting Product Sourcing Standards Walmart has articulated expectations regarding"
"supplier production of certain commodities derived from nature. Expectations include avoidance of deforestation and land conversion,  adherence to certain farming or fishing practices (including the use of certain certifications), and reporting. Standard Explanation Commodities Covered Forests Policy Outlines specific expectations of our suppliers to source priority commodities (whether as finished goods, raw  materials, or ingredients) free from deforestation and conversion (target date no"
"later than December 31, 2025;  cutoff date no later than December 31, 2020) and our reporting requirements (including certification  and verification). Palm oil, beef (South American), soy  (South American), pulp, paper,  and timber Sustainable Row Crop  Position Statement Describes best practices that we ask our suppliers to adopt in their value chains, including soil health  (e.g., cover crops, “4R” nutrient management), Integrated Pest Management, water and irrigation efficiency,"
"regenerative land management (e.g., riparian corridors), and prevention of conversion of priority wetland and  peatlands, grasslands, and forest ecosystems. Soy, corn, wheat, rice, and cotton U.S. Pollinator Health  Position Outlines our expectations of supplier practices to promote pollinator health, including adopting integrated  pest management practices, protecting pollinator habitats, and our reporting requirements (including  certifications and verifications accepted by Walmart). Fresh"
"produce and cut flowers Seafood Policy Outlines our expectations of supplier practices for wild-caught and farmed seafood, including accepted  seafood certifications, standards for Fishery Improvement Projects, vessel monitoring requirements, and  reporting requirements (e.g., Seafood Metrics System, managed by the Sustainable Fisheries Partnership (SFP). Fresh and frozen seafood,  shelf‑stable tuna Product certifications In addition to the requirements described in our Forests, Row Crop,"
"Pollinator Health, and Seafood Policies  and Positions, Walmart asks suppliers to use Walmart-accepted certifications for the sourcing of  certain commodities. Cellulosic fiber, coffee, tea, and cocoa See additional Walmart Policies and Guidelines. Read about our sustainable sourcing approach and see commodity-level progress  in relevant markets in our FY2025 Walmart Sustainable Commodities Report and read about  FY2025 Walmart Foundation Nature-Related Grants. FY2025 ESG Report  40"
"INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Engaging in Continuous Improvement To mitigate nature risk and achieve our goal of more sustainably  managing, protecting, and/or restoring ecosystems associated  with commodity production, we encourage suppliers and others to  implement and"
"report progress along a “basic-better-best” continuum. Products Sold by Walmart: For priority commodities sold to Walmart, as  a starting point we ask suppliers to adopt Walmart-approved certifications  and report the certification status of those products to us. For assessing  progress toward our DCF sourcing policy, we ask suppliers of priority  commodities from priority regions to use specified certifications or—in  some cases where certifications are not available (e.g., beef from Cerrado"
"in Brazil)—to use other means such as reporting geospatial sourcing  data for verification by a third party. For seafood commodities, we ask  suppliers to report on certification metrics as well as vessel monitoring  through the Sustainable Fisheries Partnership’s Seafood Metrics System.  We also encourage suppliers to engage in, and report on, high quality  “place‑based” sourcing initiatives for Walmart products. Broader Value Chain Engagement: To accelerate widespread adoption  of regenerative"
"practices across commodity value chains, we also invite  suppliers to report on the implementation of certain practices and  certifications (e.g., grassland management plans for grazing, soil health  practices for row crops, high-quality forest management certifications)  across acres of land and square miles of ocean throughout their value  chains through our Project Gigaton Nature portal (1,062 suppliers  reported actions in FY2025) and Seafood Metrics platform. Resources for Suppliers and"
"Others: We provide resources for  suppliers and others to support progress along the “basic-better-best”  continuum of more sustainable commodity production. Example Resources for Suppliers and Others Walmart  Sustainability Hub Features guidance on setting targets, recordings of best practice webinars  and commodity summits, background information on Walmart sustainability  strategies, and access to other resources. Place-Based  Initiatives Site Provides information to help suppliers discover"
"and join landscape-scale, on-the- ground collaborative efforts for commodity sourcing through the Nature section  of the Sustainability Hub. Project Gigaton  Nature Calculators  and Reporting Tools Helps suppliers identify improvement opportunities and translate actions into  emissions and spatial area impact (e.g., “basic,” “better,” and “best” practices over  acres of land or square miles of ocean). Commodity Best  Practice Summits Since 2020, we have held summits focused on tuna, beef, and"
"row crops; oceans,  land and forests; and sustainable packaging. Joint Sustainability  Plans With Strategic  Suppliers Developed jointly each year by sustainability and business leaders from Walmart  and strategic suppliers, plans set out priority actions to achieve sustainability  goals, including nature goals. Collaboration on  Special Initiatives Collaborative efforts to pilot solutions to challenging nature-related issues.  For example: In October 2023, General Mills, Walmart U.S., and Sam’s"
"Club U.S. launched a  collaboration to advance regenerative agriculture across 600,000 acres of  farmland by 203035 by supporting farmers in practices that aim to improve soil  health, water quality, and carbon sequestration. As of April 2025, approved grants  are anticipated to advance regenerative practices on more than 414,000 acres by  crop year 2025/2026. In July 2023, PepsiCo and Walmart U.S. launched a collaboration to enable and  accelerate the adoption of regenerative agriculture"
"practices on more than  2 million acres of farmland. We estimate the initiative can deliver up to 4 MMT GHG  emissions reduction and removals by 2030. For the 2024/2025 planting cycle,  more regenerative soil health practices and/or water improvements have been  implemented by 2,360 farms on 902,000 acres. Walmart and  Walmart  Foundation  Philanthropic  Investments Walmart and the Walmart Foundation make philanthropic investments to  promote more sustainable commodity sourcing (e.g.,"
"certification standards,  place-based projects, and traceability tools). Between FY2021 and FY2025,  the Walmart Foundation invested over $90 million36 (including $25.4 million  in FY2025) to help more sustainably manage, protect, and/or restore natural  resources. See FY2025 Walmart Foundation Nature-Related Grants. Encourage Continuous Improvement Toward Best Practices Best Commodities originate from credible jurisdictional or  place‑based initiatives that integrate conservation and"
"restoration, are aligned to landscape and seascape  needs and local stakeholder goals, and deliver positive  environmental, social, and economic outcomes. Example: Pacific Island Tuna Better Commodities are certified according to highest quality  certification program or, where certifications are unavailable,  are produced using sustainable practices that integrate  conservation or restoration with positive environmental  outcomes and positive social and/or economic impacts. Example: Marine"
"Stewardship Council (MSC) Certification Basic Commodities are sourced according to sustainable  certification programs or produced using equivalent  practices linked to positive environmental outcomes. Example: Fishery Improvement Projects For more detail, please see FY2025 Sustainable Commodities Report and  FY2025 Walmart Foundation Nature-Related Grants. 35       600,000 acres represents the approximate number of acres General Mills engages to source key ingredients for its products sold"
"through Walmart and Sam’s Club. 36       The Walmart Foundation funded philanthropic grants to help more sustainably manage, protect, and/or restore nature of $11.3 million in FY2021, $13.6 million in FY2022, $19.1 million in FY2023, $21 million in FY2024, and $25.4 million in FY2025. FY2025 ESG Report  41  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in"
"Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Supporting the Development of Place-Based Initiatives Through supplier engagement and philanthropy, Walmart and the Walmart Foundation  support the development of PBIs. We prioritize projects that: •         Promote conservation, restoration, and implementation of more regenerative farming,  ranching, forestry, and fishing practices •        Complement on-the-ground actions with public policy, advocacy, and strengthened  sourcing"
"standards •   Engage producers, suppliers and community members in dialogue to define problems,  implement solutions, and measure impact. This table provides examples of Walmart sourcing from PBIs. We also invite suppliers to  learn about and/or engage in PBIs in their value chains through the Project Gigaton  Nature portal. From FY2021 through FY2025, the Walmart Foundation funded grantees to support 31 PBIs  that help protect, restore, and/or more sustainably manage landscapes and seascapes"
"that produce priority commodities, such as palm oil from Indonesia, cattle from the U.S.  Great Plains, tuna fisheries in the western and central Pacific Ocean, beef and soy in Brazil,  seafood in Chile, and timber in Canada. Enabling Grants Walmart and the Walmart Foundation seek to advance sustainable sourcing by supporting  regenerative agriculture, responsible forestry and fisheries, landscape monitoring,  traceability systems, and community inclusion. In FY2024–FY2025, 17 enabling grants"
"were awarded to organizations to strengthen supply chain transparency, reduce illegal  and unsustainable practices, support equitable participation of local and Indigenous  communities, and improve environmental stewardship in priority production regions. For  more information, see the FY2025 Walmart Foundation Nature-Related Grants report. Examples of Walmart’s Sourcing From Place-Based Initiatives Nebraska Beef Feedlot Pilot Five-year pilot project covering over 8,000 acres of row crop"
"production. Provides technical assistance to corn farmers to promote  improved water quality and soil health, practices intended to reduce emissions, decreased net costs of production over time, and improved  management practices. Nebraska Beef Grazing Pilot Pilot project covering over 748,000 acres of ranch land. Provides technical assistance to ranchers to promote regenerative grazing practices  intended to drive positive outcomes including improved soil health, carbon sequestration, increased"
"wildlife and pollinator habitats, improved  water quality, and improved ranch productivity and resilience. For more: watch the video. Ecuadorian Shrimp Project aspires to produce shrimp with lower carbon footprints using regenerative agriculture practices. Focuses on low-carbon feed ingredients,  more sustainable farm management practices, and off-farm mangrove restoration and conservation. Chilean Farmed Salmon Project seeks to help improve salmon farming by engaging farmers on regenerative"
"feed practices and on-farm pen-management technology. Columbian Coffee Pilot Pilot project supports 100 smallholder producers in Timaná, Colombia, with technical assistance to promote sustainable and climate-resilient  practices. Focuses on certification, agroforestry, emissions tracking, traceability, and broader engagement within the Hylea Pact jurisdictional initiative.  Ivory Coast Cocoa Project aims to support 5,000 cocoa farms in the Montagnes District, Ivory Coast, with training to help"
"advance deforestation-free and sustainable  practices. Focuses on certification, agroforestry, mapping and monitoring, as well as community engagement and support. Arkansas Rice Project covering more than 9,500 acres of Arkansas farmland. Farmers implement practices designed to improve land/water management  (e.g., crop rotation, fertilizer management, zero-grade rice production, irrigation innovations to reduce water) and reduce emissions. The program  supplies a portion of Great Value and"
"Member’s Mark rice. Nebraska Popcorn Project seeks to encourage regenerative corn farming practices by sourcing Great Value brand popcorn from a farm that utilizes innovative,  regenerative practices around soil and ecosystem health and water quality. Red River Valley Sugar Beets Project covering more than 4,000 acres of sugar beet fields. Growers implement more sustainable practices like cover crops, reduced tillage,  fertilizer management, and extended crop rotation. FY2025 ESG Report  42"
"INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Water Stewardship Water scarcity creates risk for Walmart facility operations, surety of supply of products that  rely on agriculture, and livelihoods of suppliers and communities that Walmart serves. Water Stewardship in Our Operations: We aim to"
"reduce water usage and improve  conservation practices in our operations. •         Using water-saving products: For example, a project involving no-rinse cleaners is  estimated to reduce our annual global water consumption by more than  65 million gallons.37 •       Installing water-saving technology: For example, as of February 2025, water-saving  valves were installed in 51% of our Mexico and Central America stores. •    Rainwater harvesting: we have installed and maintain rainwater"
"harvesting equipment  at some Walmart U.S. stores, and our new Home Office, to handle onsite irrigation and  to water plants and flowers in our Garden Centers. •        Removing water-intensive landscaping: As of February 2025, approximately 1,100  U.S. stores and clubs have transitioned to water-saving landscaping (e.g., AstroTurf,  hardscaping). •  Going digital: For example, in our U.S. pharmacies, many prescription details are  available via QR code, a program that is estimated to save 134"
"million gallons of  water annually. Prioritizing Water in Our Value Chain: We aim to positively impact water usage and  quality across our value chain. •     Implementing policies that address water reduction and quality: For example, our  Standards for Suppliers requires suppliers to design and operate systems to properly  manage potable water, wastewater, and storm water; our Sustainable Row Crop  Position Statement prioritizes the protection of water and recommends regenerative  water"
"management strategies. •         Considering water in our PBIs: Many of our PBIs incorporate regenerative water  strategies including irrigation efficiency and improved water retention and infiltration  through soil health practices (e.g., Arkansas Rice, Nebraska Popcorn, Red River Valley  Sugar Beets). •       Sourcing innovation: We look for water reduction opportunities throughout our  supply chain. For example, Walmart Canada has found a way to deliver Ontario- grown strawberries year-round"
"by working with a local Canadian supplier to grown  strawberries in  greenhouses, which also reduces water usage compared to  field‑grown strawberries. •    Working with coalitions that prioritize water: For example, sourcing Better Cotton  Initiative-certified cotton is estimated to have saved 2.8 billion gallons of water and  32,800 pounds of pesticides, while providing an estimated $17.6 million in farmer profit. •        Philanthropic support for projects that incorporate water stewardship:"
"For example,  in 2024, the Walmart Foundation provided a grant to the Practical Farmers of Iowa to  accelerate the adoption of cover crops on farms in Nebraska and Iowa, which can help  mitigate erosion, reducing runoff and improving the quality of surface water. Supporting Conservation and Restoration Acres for America: A collaborative effort between Walmart and the National Fish and  Wildlife Foundation (NFWF), Acres for America celebrated 20 years preserving crucial  landscapes, natural"
"areas, and wildlife habitats across the United States. Exceeding its  initial goal of protecting one acre of habitat for every acre of land developed by Walmart  stores, Acres for America has supported projects in all 50 states, the District of Columbia,  and Puerto Rico—including over 120 projects nationwide in 2024—that have: •       Protected more than 2 million acres of critical wildlife habitat  across the United States •    Turned Walmart’s $70 million investment into an estimated  $1.2"
"billion in total conservation impact through participation  of strategic co-funders •   Linked millions of acres of protected lands to support large- scale conservation and enable wildlife migrations essential to  the survival of iconic species •  Provided nearly $4 million in emergency funding to safeguard  fish and wildlife threatened by natural disasters •       Revitalized urban lands and habitats, expanding equitable access to outdoor  recreation—such as fishing, camping, and hiking—for"
"communities nationwide. Given its tremendous success, in November 2024, Walmart and the NFWF announced a  10-year, $34.5 million renewal of the Acres for America conservation program. For more,  visit the NFWF Acres for America website, Storymap, and 2024 Fact Sheet. Wetland Conservation: Walmart teams monitor and maintain wetlands that are part  of over 330 Walmart U.S. properties (e.g., trash and debris removal, invasive vegetation  management, and discouraging disturbance of protected areas)."
"From FY2020 through  FY2025, Walmart invested in more than 180 wetland improvement projects on these sites. Walmart Foundation Grants: The Walmart Foundation’s Nature program complements  and accelerates the work of our business to mitigate nature risk and promote regenerative  agriculture, water stewardship, more sustainable fisheries, and forest conservation.  Between FY2021 and FY2025, the Walmart Foundation invested over $90 million (including  $25.4 million in FY2025) to help more"
"sustainably manage, protect, and/or restore natural  resources, of which: •    $52.9 million was to support place-based initiatives in critical land and seascapes. •  $37.6 million was to support systemic enablers intended to unlock new capabilities and  accelerate progress, including research, piloting regenerative practices, development  of traceability and measurement tools, and improvement of certifications and  other standards. In 2021, the Walmart Foundation joined the LEAF Coalition, a"
"public-private initiative  dedicated to accelerating climate action by protecting and restoring tropical forests.  Since its inception, LEAF has mobilized over $1.5 billion to help safeguard these vital  ecosystems. We hold a leadership role on LEAF’s advisory council and have participated  in various initiatives to support results-based financing for tropical forest conservation in  regions such as Ghana and Brazil.38 For additional information on the Walmart Foundation, please visit"
"Walmart.org. 37   Estimated by our supplier. 38   Our philanthropic support for forest conservation in Ghana, Brazil, and our broader engagement in the LEAF Coalition helps ensure all relevant credits are retired with the jurisdiction. We do not take title or ownership of credits, and they cannot be applied to any of Walmart’s climate goals. FY2025 ESG Report  43  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions Regeneration"
"of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Fostering an Enabling Environment Protecting and restoring ecosystems in ways that sustain food production and the  livelihoods of communities requires action by many. We advocate for public policies and engage with others in initiatives to accelerate  progress and mitigate nature risk. For example, we have engaged with: •   The U.S. Department of State in the lead-up to the"
"2022 United Nations Biodiversity  Conference to advance Walmart’s position on the importance of a global  biodiversity agreement •   The U.S. Department of Agriculture to protect and enhance resources for regenerative  agriculture practices in food production •        The TNFD on their draft framework. As well, our business and philanthropic initiatives described above aim to increase  capacity in value chains for more sustainable commodity production, conservation, and  restoration. Working"
"with suppliers, NGOs, and others, we aim to increase traceability  and transparency of commodity sourcing; test and scale the adoption of practices that  improve livelihoods while sustaining nature; and support the development and expansion  of jurisdictional initiatives that optimize social, environmental, and economic outcomes. For a list of recent related Walmart Foundation grants, please see the FY2025 Walmart  Foundation Nature-Related Grants. See also, FY2025 Walmart Key Trade Associations"
"and Other Business Coalitions and the Responsible Engagement in Public Policy  section of this report. Challenges •   Environmental challenges in supply chains are highly complex and are often the result  of systemic issues, including deeply entrenched economic practices and inconsistent  regulation and enforcement. These factors make it challenging for any single organization  to have an impact. •     The science underpinning solutions to nature-related problems can be inconclusive,  and"
"scientists may disagree about the causes or optimal solutions for such problems.  Issues intersect, trade-offs may be required, and competing considerations balanced. •        As we work toward the achievement of our goals and commitments, the science,  available data, methodologies for assessing risk and measuring impact, and reporting  standards evolve. Policy approaches shift as well. As we continue to align to the latest  scientific evidence, available data, reporting standards, and"
"policies, our approaches  and methodologies for measurement and reporting may change. •     More sustainable product aspirations are highly dependent on the maturity, rigor, and  efficacy of third-party standards and initiatives, and there are limits to the efficacy of  tools used to monitor compliance with expectations. •        The success of our product and commodity sustainability programs is dependent  on our suppliers’ and manufacturers’ (and their ingredient suppliers’) willingness  and"
"ability to meet high-integrity standards (e.g., traceability and verification of DCF  products), as well as their capacity and willingness to scale practices across their  supply chains. Innovation in manufacturing, agriculture, and other product production  technologies is also necessary. •     Nature-related issues in supply chains are often upstream and may be beyond the  reach of traditional retailer oversight and monitoring tools. The use of technology to  improve transparency and"
"traceability (e.g., blockchain, vessel monitoring) can help, but  adoption of these technologies takes time, and further innovation is necessary to meet  these challenges. FY2025 ESG Report  44  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Waste: Circular Economy Our Aspiration We aim to be"
"part of the transition from a “take-make- dispose” approach to one that values the reuse,  recycling, and regeneration of materials. We aspire to  reduce waste in our global operations and work with  suppliers, customers, and communities to accelerate  the adoption of innovative packaging and products that  meet our customers’ needs while minimizing waste. Relevance to Our Business and Society Food, other products, and packaging are constantly  moving through our facilities and networks and on"
"to  our customers. Wasting any of it ultimately drives up  costs. Stakeholders want us to operate our business and  provide our customers the products and services they’re  looking for with a minimum of waste. Our Approach Eliminating Operational Waste: Designing and  executing programs to address key waste streams in  Walmart’s store, club, and distribution and fulfillment  center operations. Reducing Food Waste: Ensuring food in our operations  and value chain is used for its highest purpose"
"and  reducing disposal to landfill. Optimizing Packaging: Preserving the benefits of  packaging while reducing materials cost and waste,  conserving resources, improving efficiency, and  reducing emissions. Enhancing Product Circularity: Reducing product  waste through refill, refurbishment, and repurposing. FY2025 ESG Report  45  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste:"
"Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Eliminating Operational Waste We aspire to divert 90% of operational waste (considered “zero waste” by ZWIA) in our  U.S., Canada, and Mexico operations by designing end-to-end circularity programs for the  main sources of our operational waste: secondary packaging, receptacle waste, food loss  and waste, automotive, and assets. We believe our waste initiatives in the U.S. put us on  pace to achieve this"
"goal; Canada and Mexico are delivering solid progress, but will likely  not meet the 2025 timeline. Secondary Packaging We aim to reduce, reuse, or recycle the cardboard, wood pallets, and plastics we and our  suppliers use to move products to, from, and through our facilities. Examples include: Cardboard, Break Pack Boxes, Reusable Packaging: In 2024, Walmart U.S. and Sam’s  Club U.S. recycled 6.1 billion pounds of cardboard, a slight increase from the previous year.  In addition to our"
"cardboard program, we utilize reusable break pack boxes (containers for  mixed, small-volume items), which reduces overall cardboard usage. For example, in 2024,  more than 114 million cardboard break pack boxes were reused in our U.S. supply chain  network and Sam’s Club fulfillment operations (up from 85 million in 2023). We also utilize  reusable plastic containers (RPCs) for select produce, fruit, vegetables, meat, and eggs. In  2024, our vendor partners reported Walmart reused 270 million"
"RPCs. Mixed Recycling (e.g., Mixed Recycling Bales (MRBs), Rigid Plastics, Films, and  Shrink  Wrap): We contract with vendors to collect and recycle rigid plastics and plastic film from  our operations and customers. In 2024, our vendors reported that Walmart recycled: •  281 million pounds of rigid plastics, films, and shrink wrap globally •         226 million pounds of MRBs in our U.S. operations. In our supply chain facilities, we generate plastic film-only bales from Business‑to- Business"
"(B2B) pallet packaging (e.g., shrink wrap). To enhance recycling in our retail  facilities, we train associates to gather and bale mixed recyclables, including  customer‑returned plastic bags, stretch films, hangers, and paper. Food Food waste is a component of our operational waste footprint. Goals, key strategies,  and initiatives to reduce and/or divert food waste are highlighted in the next section. Automotive Much of the waste generated from our auto care centers (e.g., tires, motor oils,"
"vehicle  batteries) is recycled and/or diverted in accordance with state and federal regulations.  Beyond compliance, we work to identify interventions and pilot programs to divert  waste away from landfills. Operational Waste Metric CY2024 CY2023 CY2022 Global operational waste  diversion Percentage of waste materials diverted from landfill  and incineration 83.5% 83.5%  82.3%  Goal: Divert 90% of  operational waste  (considered “zero waste”  by ZWIA) from landfill and  incineration in Canada,"
"Mexico, and U.S. markets  by 2025 Percentage of waste  materials diverted from  landfill and incineration  per country U.S. 84.4% 84.2%  83.3% Canada 83.0% 83.3% 83.4% Mexico 83.2% 81.4% 80.4% Sources of Operational Waste (before diversion) Secondary  Packaging 72.8% Food Loss  & Waste Other Assets 2.0% 0.9% Receptacle Waste 11.0% 8.7% 4.6% Automotive FY2025 ESG Report  46  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions"
"Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Facility Receptacles Facility receptacles include: •    Open Top Dumpsters: These are intended to capture specific bulky waste for a limited  time period, such as cleanup after storm damage, but also serve as backup when our  compactors are non-operational. •     Customer Trash: These receptacles are placed in designated parking lots, restrooms,  and sales floors"
"in stores and clubs to capture customer waste. •  Compactors: These are used to capture various facility waste, including customer and  tenant waste, as well as contaminated packaging. The majority of our facility receptacle waste is unable to be diverted, primarily due to  contamination issues. As a result, facility receptacle waste forms a substantial portion of  our overall non-diverted waste. Given the low ability to divert waste from receptacles, we aim to minimize their use. For  example,"
"we conduct ongoing associate training to ensure our teams understand how  these receptacles should be used. We also perform regular compliance audits to identify  challenging hot spots at our facilities and carry out periodic broader operational waste  assessments to refine our strategy and execution. Assets With more than 10,500 stores globally, we own and manage a large number of operational  fixtures, products, and materials not intended for purchase by our customers (e.g., shopping  carts,"
"registers, displays, and shelving). We aim to reuse, repurpose, and/or restore these  assets, as well as unsold general merchandise. In 2024, we reused and/or restored 136  million wood pallets in the U.S. In 2024, we announced an ambitious plan to remodel 650 stores across 47 states and  Puerto Rico, and in April 2025, Sam’s Club announced that it will open 30 new locations  over the next five years, with plans to continue expanding by opening additional clubs.  When expanding or remodeling, we"
"strive to reuse and refurbish operational fixtures such  as shelves, racking systems, and store displays, and during construction we aim to recycle  and/or divert as much material as possible. Reducing Food Waste Walmart set a goal to reduce global operational food loss and waste intensity 50% by  2030 (vs. 2016 baseline) in support of the CGF Food Waste Coalition of Action and  U.S. Food Waste Pact (previously Pacific Coast Food Waste Commitment) initiatives. Reducing Operational Food Loss and"
"Waste Our objective is to ensure food is used for its highest purpose and to reduce food sent to  landfill as much as possible. In 2024, we reduced global operational food loss and waste intensity by 12.1% (vs. 2016  baseline), which means our food loss increased relative to 2023. The year-over-year  increase is primarily due to: continued growth in our grocery business and expansion  of our Zero De-Pack initiative. While our De-Pack initiative helps us divert food waste  from landfill (and"
"therefore contributes to our zero waste goal under ZWIA standards),  the diverted food is mostly converted to compost and/or anaerobic digestion, which are  considered a form of food loss and waste under the FLW Standard. We remain focused on improving execution of our food loss and waste reduction  programs at each stage of the food disposition pyramid through improved associate  training and store-level performance management; expanded collaboration with  Feeding America  to optimize"
"donations; and developing new outlets to reduce  food loss (e.g., conversion into animal feed and nutritional additives). Food Waste Metric CY2024 CY202339 CY202239 Goal: Reduce  operational food  loss and waste  intensity 50% by  2030 (vs. 2016  baseline) Global operational  food loss and  waste intensity  reduction vs.  baseline year  (CY2016) 12.1%  reduction  21.7%  reduction 15.2%  reduction Food donated  through our  global operations Food donations  globally 855  million lbs. 767  million"
"lbs. 760  million lbs. 39        The CY2022 and CY2023 global operational food loss and waste intensity reduction vs. baseline year figures have been restated. The CY2023 global food donation figure has been restated. FY2025 ESG Report  47  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Reduce"
"Strengthening forecasting and supplier engagement to reduce food spoilage Repurpose Converting near expiry foods into new products Discount and Educate Selling near-expiry, damaged, or imperfect foods at reduced rates; Educating customers Donate Providing unsold food to local communities Recycle Responsibly manage  non-edible food Dispose Landfill/ incineration Food Disposition Pyramid Reduce (Strengthening Forecasting and Supplier Engagement to Reduce  Food Spoilage): We assess our food supply"
"chain to identify interventions in  collaboration with groups like the U.S. Food Waste Pact (e.g., fresh strawberry  whole chain assessment). In the U.S. and Mexico we are piloting remote sensing  and data analytical tools designed to help reduce fruit spoilage. In Canada we are  piloting an AI system designed to identify food spoilage reduction opportunities. Repurpose (Converting Near-expiry Food Into New Products): To reduce  spoilage and waste, we repurpose select food to extend shelf life."
"For example,  where it is near expiry, Walmart U.S. blast chills hot rotisserie and fried chicken,  and repackages as a new product to extend its shelf life from four hours to three  days. By rapidly chilling these chicken products, we are also able to offer food  at a discount and unlock eligibility for donation and Supplemental Nutrition  Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits. Discount and Educate (Selling Near-expiry, Damaged, or Imperfect Foods at  Reduced Rates; Educating Customers): We"
"discount food nearing its expiration  date or to otherwise reduce food loss. For example, in the U.S., our teams  are assessing the ways in which we promote near expiry foods (e.g., signage,  placement) to improve customer sales. In Chile and Mexico, our Imperfect  but Good program was established to help customers overcome the stigma  of buying foods close to expiration or with aesthetic defects. Walmart also  participates in the #TooGoodToWaste initiative, a public-facing campaign by the  CGF"
"Food Waste Coalition of Action to reduce food waste. In 2024, we partnered  with CGF to launch Sustainable Kitchen, an online hub showcasing industry best  practice to inspire healthier cooking and less food waste. Donate (Providing Unsold Food to Local Communities): When food goes  unsold, Walmart works to get it to people and places that need it while it remains  nutritious. We are working to increase food donations by improving store execution  and removing barriers for local organizations"
"that recover food from our stores,  clubs, distribution and fulfillment centers. Read “Affordable, Healthy Food” in the  Serving Communities section. •  Since FY2001, Walmart and Sam’s Club have donated nearly 9 billion pounds of  food to the Feeding America network of local food banks and partner agencies. Recycled Food Waste: Destination Mix Pounds of global operational  food waste by destination type  in CY2024 (as reported by our  third-party partners) Animal feed: 409 million lbs. Anaerobic"
"digestion: 167 million lbs. Composting: 332 million lbs. Biochemical processing: 67 million lbs. •  In FY2025, 97.7% of our U.S. facilities (including stores and clubs) participated in  food donations to support Feeding America. •      In FY2025, Walmart invested $12.7 million in Feeding America to enhance the  capacity of U.S. food banks and their partner agencies (e.g., additional vehicles,  refrigerators, and equipment to handle increased pickups), particularly in  areas with low donation"
"rates, and modernize national food donation  data capabilities. •  Across all Walmart markets including the U.S., in 2024 we donated 855 million  pounds of food. In China, for example, we created a surplus retail food donation  program which donated the equivalent of nearly 9 million meals to local  communities between July 2021 and June 2024. Recycle (Responsibly Manage Non-edible Food): Where food is no longer  edible,  we convert it into other useful outputs (e.g., animal feed, compost,"
"energy)  by working with partners and piloting new technologies. For example, Walmart  has deployed food de-packaging innovations at 3,560 U.S. stores and clubs (as of  April 2025). Early testing of this technology indicates it has increased the volume  of organic content recovered from participating stores and clubs by 60% while  contributing to a 12% drop in compactor trash. This organic content is used for  innovative new products (e.g., ReCirculate compost), anaerobic digestion, and  animal"
"feed. And in Costa Rica, we are piloting an onsite biodigester. Dispose: Where no other options exist, we dispose of food to landfill or  incineration. In 2024, we disposed of 1,545 million pounds. FY2025 ESG Report  48  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Reducing Food Waste in Our"
"Value Chain In addition to implementing food waste reduction practices in our retail and distribution  operations, we engage with suppliers and others in the food industry to reduce food  waste in our value chain, primarily by engaging suppliers and driving systems change. Engaging Suppliers Improving Standardized Date Labeling: In line with the CGF Date Labeling Call to  Action, we encourage suppliers to standardize date labeling as an aid to improved  customer decision-making (e.g., using the"
"standard terms “Best If Used By” or “Use By”  on packaged food labeling). In FY2025, 91.4% of Walmart U.S. private brand, food supplier- reported sales came from items carrying standardized date labels. Encouraging Action via Project Gigaton: We encourage our suppliers to divert or  reduce organic waste (including food waste) as well as measure and report progress  through Project Gigaton as a means to reduce value chain emissions (in addition to  reducing waste). Driving Systems Change Through"
"Multi-Stakeholder Coalitions •     Zero Food Waste Coalition: Walmart is involved with Zero Food Waste Coalition and  takes part in regular Coalition programming to engage policymakers on opportunities  to reduce food waste, leveraging the knowledge, insights and best practices of a wide  range of organizations. •        U.S. Food Waste Pact: Walmart was one of the first U.S. companies to sign onto the  U.S. Food Waste Pact, which builds on the Pacific Coast Food Waste Commitment  (a public-"
"private partnership intended to reduce food waste by 50% by 2030), and is  designed to drive meaningful progress on food waste reduction. •        CGF Food Waste Coalition of Action: Walmart is the Retail Co-Chair of the CGF Food  Waste Coalition of Action, focused on contributing to the Sustainable Development  Goal 12.3 of halving per capita global food waste by addressing waste in member  companies’ value chains (by engaging with upstream suppliers, sharing best practices,  and engaging in"
"consumer education initiatives). •       Food Loss and Waste 2030 Champions Program: Walmart is a signatory to the U.S.  Department of Agriculture and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Food Loss and  Waste 2030 Champions program. Optimizing Packaging Packaging serves an important function, helping to ensure the safe transport of products  and to keep food fresh and safe. Engaging stakeholders to optimize packaging can help  preserve these benefits while also reducing materials cost and"
"waste, conserving natural  resources, enhancing transportation efficiencies, and reducing GHG emissions. Nearly a decade ago, we designed strategies to optimize packaging and set ambitious  goals to increase recycled content, reduce virgin plastic usage, and enhance packaging  recyclability. While we have made significant progress, we expect to fall short of achieving  these goals on time. Walmart’s strategies include: •         Optimizing packaging design, working with suppliers to eliminate"
"unnecessary  packaging, design for recycling, and increasing recycled content •        Facilitating a transition toward circularity by enabling customer recycling and  supporting improved recycling infrastructure and collection access •   Promoting innovation and best practices in packaging, including through supplier  engagement, developing and sharing resources, and collaboration. Packaging Metric CY2024 CY2023 CY2022 Goal: 20% private  brand plastic  packaging in North  America made from"
"post-consumer  recycled (PCR)  content by 2025 Estimated  percentage private  brand plastic  packaging in North  America made of  PCR content 8.0 % 7.3% 7.2% Goal: 17% global  private brand  plastic packaging  made from PCR  content by 2025 Estimated  percentage of global  private brand plastic  packaging made of  PCR content 7.6% 7.6% 7.5%  Goal: 100% of  global private  brand packaging  recyclable,  reusable, or  industrially  compostable by  2025 Estimated  percentage of  global private brand"
"packaging that is  recyclable, reusable,  or industrially  compostable 66.1% 68.2% 63.4% Goal: Reduce virgin  plastic in global  private brand  packaging 15% by  2025 (vs. CY2020  baseline) Percentage  reduction/increase in  private brand virgin  plastic packaging vs.  baseline (based on  supplier reports) 5.4%  increase 8.1%  increase 5.9%  increase Percentage of  global Walmart  private brand  plastic packaging  that is designed for  recycling 82.6% 80.6% 80.7% Percentage of  Walmart U.S. food"
"and consumables  private brand,  supplier-reported  sales with  How2Recycle® label40 93.1% 91.7% 92.1% 40        How2Recycle is a leading product packaging labeling system, aiming to increase transparency, educate consumers, and improve recycling behavior and rates. Used by major U.S. retailers and consumer packaged goods companies, including Walmart, it provides standardized labeling based on applicable laws, technical recyclability, and the availability of curbside and drop-off recycling"
"programs. The program’s  labels are backed by nationally harmonized data and are designed to adapt to evolving U.S. Federal and State legislation. FY2025 ESG Report  49  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Optimizing Packaging Design We’re working to optimize packaging, engaging"
"suppliers and addressing the assortment category-by-category and item-by-item, eliminating packaging where possible and making necessary packaging better. Our actions are guided by “golden design” principles and  Walmart’s Sustainable Packaging Playbook. Although overall use of virgin plastic across our private brand assortment has increased as our sales have grown, our efforts have reduced virgin plastic packaging per net sales dollar across our private brand assortment. Strategy Example"
"Progress Indicators Example Actions Example Challenges Eliminate packaging that is not required by  law or otherwise necessary for safe handling,  labeling, transportation, or storage •  We have reduced our overall plastic packaging intensity (weight of plastic  per net sales dollar) for the past two years •      Since 2020, Walmart has reduced the total annual weight of single-use  plastic bags 21% across North America;41 our Mexico and Canada stores  are primarily single-use plastic bag-free •"
"As of May 2023, more than 400 U.S. stores have transitioned away from  single-use plastic bags •        Made reusable bags readily available and inexpensive to make it easier for  customers to opt out of single-use bags •   Co-founded Beyond the Bag •     Implemented technology to right-size eCommerce packaging •      Eliminated plastic packaging for certain private brand items, for example  furniture, power tools, lighting products •  Packaging is often necessary or useful for safe handling,"
"food safety,  proper labeling, transportation, or storage •   In some cases, packaging is required by law or regulations •    Significant transition away from single-use plastic bags will require  changes in customer demand, enabling public policy, and/or  materials innovation Design for recycling: use packaging  materials that are more recyclable •       82.6% of global Walmart private brand plastic packaging is designed for  recycling (2024) •     66.1% of global Walmart private brand"
"packaging is considered  recyclable, reusable, or industrially compostable (2024) •       Private brand garment accessories: Replaced plastic blister packaging  with paper-based packaging to realize cost savings, increase customer  convenience and reduce use of virgin plastic •    Private brand home heaters and dehumidifiers: Replaced internal foam  packaging with more recyclable HDPE and paper-based packaging •   Private brand lighting: Replaced plastic blister packs with recyclable  paperboard"
"•    eCommerce mailers: Transitioning from plastic to recyclable paper bags •        Limitations in recycling infrastructure prevent some materials from  being considered “recyclable” and/or from being recycled •         Materials innovation required to develop recyclable or compostable  packaging for some use cases (e.g., multi-layered films, food contact  applications) •      Even with access to recycling, consumers do not always choose to  recycle their packaging Increase use of PCR content"
"in products  and packaging •      In 2024, an estimated 7.6% of global private brand packaging composed  of PCR content •         Member’s Mark fresh squeezed orange juice bottles: 100% PCR42 (launched:  February 2025) •      Private brand multipack water bottles average 20.7% PCR43 •     Limited availability of high-quality PCR and volatility of PCR pricing  inhibit adoption •      Laws and regulations restrict the use of PCR in certain product  packaging (e.g., pharmaceuticals) 41   This"
"includes the total weight of single-use plastic bags used at check-out, and for produce and meat across Walmart U.S., Sam’s Club U.S., Canada, and Mexico. 42     As of Q4 FY2025, Sam’s Club U.S. uses 100% PCR content for its Member’s Mark fresh squeezed orange juice bottles, according to supplier reports. 43     In 2023, Walmart U.S. and Sam’s Club U.S. increased PCR content in private brand 24- and 40‑count multipack water bottles to a national average of 16%. FY2025 ESG Report  50"
"INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Facilitating a Transition Toward Circularity We aim to enhance packaging circularity by promoting customer recycling through clear labeling and providing outlets for hard-to-recycle waste. We also advocate for enhanced recycling infrastructure"
"while providing resources to drive systemic change. Strategy Example Progress Indicators Example Actions Example Challenges Encourage customer recycling •       In 2024, 93.1% of Walmart U.S. private brand food and consumables  supplier-reported sales came from items carrying the How2Recycle label •     Engaging suppliers to provide consistent/transparent on-package  disposal instructions •        In-store plastic bag and stretch film collection bins distributed to all  Walmart U.S. stores44 •"
"Piloting community recycling units in Arkansas, Oklahoma, and Texas •   Limitations in local infrastructure can make it difficult for customers to  recycle some materials •    Systemic shifts required to scale recycling, including public policy,  municipal infrastructure, supplier innovation, and customer behavior Advocate for effective policy approaches  that strengthen systems and infrastructure •      As of May 2025, several U.S. states have signed EPR bills into law, with  others considering"
"similar measures •         The United Nations Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee is  continuing efforts to develop an international instrument on  plastic pollution •        Walmart co-leads the CGF Plastic Waste Coalition of Action, endorsed  the CGF principles on EPR, and co-founded the EPR Leadership Forum •      Walmart is a member of the Circular Action Alliance and serves on  its board •  Walmart is Chair of the International Chamber of Commerce  Plastics Working Group •     Lack of"
"alignment and competing interests at the local, state, federal,  and international levels make it challenging to pass and implement  effective policies Provide philanthropic support to facilitate  materials circularity •    Since FY2021, Walmart and the Walmart Foundation have provided $20.6  million to enhance recycling infrastructure and promote circular systems  for plastic packaging •         Supported The Recycling Partnership’s (TRP) Material Recycling  Coalitions •    Supporting TRP to"
"deliver a five-year roadmap for improving recycling  in Northwest Arkansas •  Helped establish the Closed Loop Infrastructure Fund •  Funded TRP’s Center for Sustainable Behavior & Impact, which helps  identify key trends, attitudes, motivations, and barriers to recycling •    Systemic change depends on long-term support and collaboration  among a diverse set of stakeholders, including government  organizations, NGOs, educational institutions, and the private sector 44    On occasion, in-store"
"plastic bag and film recycling bins may be unavailable for logistical reasons. Promoting Innovation and Best Practices in Packaging Walmart promotes packaging innovation and adoption of best practices across our business and our value chain. Strategy Example Progress Indicators Engaging suppliers to optimize packaging •  Project Gigaton: We encourage suppliers to optimize packaging design, source packaging materials more sustainably, and reduce packaging Developing, curating, and providing"
"resources •         Plastic IQ: Free, data-driven scenario modeling tool to help companies set effective circularity strategies (including reducing packaging) •    Walmart’s Sustainable Packaging Playbook: Provides best practices on eliminating packaging components or layers, and “right sizing” packaging, and considers reduced transportation miles via optimizing package design •       Walmart’s Recycling Playbook: Provides voluntary guidelines for streamlined packaging design •  Walmart’s"
"Circular Connector: Designed to connect those who need more sustainable packaging solutions with those offering them, including testing materials and use cases Raising awareness and ambition in the field •         Sustainable Packaging Summit: In May 2023, Walmart hosted a Sustainable Packaging Summit to explore packaging solutions and innovations, including best practices on the elimination, reduction, and reuse of  plastic packaging •      Since 2018, endorsed Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s"
"global packaging initiative FY2025 ESG Report  51  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Enhancing Product Circularity Facilitating product circularity contributes to waste reduction and can create new  business opportunities. Refillable Containers: we sell a variety of products that"
"can be refilled and that can help  reduce single-use packaging (e.g., reusable water bottles that can help reduce single-use  plastic bottles). We are also piloting innovative reuse platforms. For example, Cleancult  allows customers to purchase cleaning products in refillable, reusable containers. Donating, Reselling, or Repurposing Unsold General Merchandise and Customer  Returns: When general merchandise goes unsold or is returned, our teams attempt to put  them to the highest-value recovery"
"channel, such as reselling to customers, stocking the  clearance aisle, reselling to online platforms, liquidating to B2B resellers, and donating the  products so that they do not find their way to landfills. If products cannot be donated or  resold, in some cases we can recycle or repurpose components (for example, processing  plastic components to create new products like pet containers, coolers, automotive, and  seasonal items). Philanthropic Investments to Build Capacity for Circularity:"
"Walmart leverages  philanthropy to increase circularity by investing to improve measurement tools, material  innovation, infrastructure, and behavior change. Since FY2021, Walmart and the Walmart  Foundation have provided $20.6 million to enhance recycling infrastructure and promote  circular systems. Walmart’s philanthropic efforts include supporting studies on traceability  and reuse strategies, such as a $2 million study with Goodwill Industries to research and  expand circularity and"
"traceability in textiles. Piloting Reuse and End-of-life Solutions •    Pre-owned and Refurbished Merchandise: In 2024, Walmart Marketplace introduced  Resold at Walmart, with 5 million pre-owned items from more than 1,700 sellers,  including luxury fashion, electronics, collectibles, sporting goods, and more. Resold at  Walmart builds on the success of Walmart Restored (launched in 2022). •      Trade In, Take Back Programs: We are piloting various programs, such as: •      CExchange: We"
"operate a technology trade-in program in the U.S. that allows  customers to exchange qualifying technology (e.g., phones, tablets, laptops) for  Walmart gift cards. •    ecoATMs: We partner with ecoATM to offer technology trade-in kiosks in over  3,200 Walmart U.S. stores to make it more convenient for our customers to sell  back used phones. •        Trashie: We partnered with Trashie on a limited apparel take-back program  (e.g., unwanted clothing, shoes, accessories, undergarments, linens) to"
"learn  about customer interest in repurposing textiles. •    Device Repair: As of December 2024, customers can access device repair and  technology services in over 350 U.S. stores (offered through third-party partners)  and online. Challenges •        Increased demand has led to a global shortage of recycled materials, making it  difficult to source feedstock in the necessary quantities and at price points that  support our packaging goals and everyday low prices. Consequently, without a"
"breakthrough in the cost and availability of recycled content, we do not anticipate  meeting our recycled content and virgin material reduction goals. •      Reducing waste requires engagement and behavior change across the product  lifecycle. Factors such as product quality, shelf life, inventory management, customer  preferences, and risk of product damage must be balanced when making packaging  decisions. Suppliers must be willing and able to implement product design and  packaging options"
"consistent with Walmart’s objectives, and customers need to  make choices in favor of circularity when purchasing products and properly handling  packaging material (e.g., reducing, reusing, recycling). •        Significantly more resources are needed to meaningfully support waste management  and recycling. A report by TRP noted that approximately 40 million U.S. households  do not have recycling access that is on par with trash services, and $17 billion in  investment is needed to meaningfully"
"close that gap. Given that customer behavior  and recycling infrastructure vary across communities, recyclable materials (including  recyclable plastics) may end up in landfills, regardless of our efforts to ensure  technical recyclability. Additionally, facilities are not yet equipped to handle the  growing amount of compostable plastic. Until infrastructure is enhanced, and policy  incentives and municipal spending aligned, compostable plastic may continue to find  its way to landfills. •"
"The local, national, and international policy environment is not moving quickly enough  to support business efforts. For example, there is not currently global alignment to  scale up critical investment, strengthen regulatory frameworks, and avoid regulatory  fragmentation. Within the U.S., only some states have implemented well-designed  EPR regimes. •     Variations in regional waste management infrastructure and consumer behavior  make it challenging to design product packaging labels that"
"educate and encourage  consumers on how to handle packaging (e.g., what qualifies for recycling and how to  prepare product to be recycled). Digital tools can help tailor messaging by region, but  adoption requires local effort, investment, and behavior change. •       Breakthroughs require innovative materials and product designs. Currently, non-plastic  alternatives often fall short in matching plastic’s safety, cost, and convenience for  most use cases. FY2025 ESG Report  52  INTRODUCTION"
"OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability People in Supply Chains Our Aspiration We aim to source responsibly while acting as a catalyst  of positive transformation for the well-being of people  working in consumer product supply chains, working  with others to realize the economic promise of supply"
"chains and helping address systemic risks. Relevance to Our Business and Society Walmart’s business relies on a reliable supply of  responsibly made products. With a global network  of tens of thousands of suppliers, the processes of  growing, making, and moving products support jobs  and economic opportunity in communities around the  world. Responsible sourcing is essential to meeting  customer expectations, strengthening the resilience  of our supply chains, and upholding Walmart’s values."
"Our stakeholders expect us not only to source products  responsibly but also to help drive positive change across  the broader retail ecosystem. Our Approach Responsible sourcing: Walmart sets high standards for  our suppliers and holds them accountable for ensuring  they operate responsibly and safeguard the well-being  of their workers. Collaborating to address systemic risks: Walmart  works with others to tackle the root causes of systemic  issues like forced labor and unsafe working"
"conditions,  focusing on 10 key retail supply chains. FY2025 ESG Report  53  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Responsible Sourcing Our responsible sourcing program sets expectations for product suppliers, monitors  supplier performance against those expectations, and works to"
"continuously improve our  product supply chains. Responsible Sourcing Policies Walmart has developed and implemented associate-facing and supplier-facing policies to  promote responsible sourcing. Walmart also communicates more specific requirements to address acute human rights  risks. For example, we have communicated specific expectations relating to supply chain  transparency, worker and building safety in Bangladesh, and child and underage labor. Responsible Sourcing Compliance Teams"
"Walmart Compliance associates in 14 countries (as of FYE2025) support the responsible  sourcing program by: •      Helping merchandising and sourcing teams understand and mitigate risk •         Training teams on responsible sourcing expectations, processes, trends, and tools •     Providing merchants with a profile of the social compliance status of suppliers and  facilities relevant to their business •    Working with suppliers to help create an understanding of Walmart’s expectations •"
"Collaborating with stakeholders on industry and regional responsible sourcing issues. Training and Tools Walmart merchandising and sourcing associates are trained on the Global Responsible  Sourcing Compliance Policy, Standards for Suppliers, and responsible sourcing program  expectations on an ongoing basis. This training introduces new associates to the  responsible sourcing program while refreshing knowledge for experienced associates. In addition to training these Walmart associates, we"
"offer suppliers tools and resources  through multiple channels, including our corporate website. When suppliers disclose  facilities that fall within the scope of our responsible sourcing auditing program—as  required—Walmart sends them communications reinforcing our Standards for Suppliers.  These communications include references to resources to help them understand and  meet our responsible sourcing requirements. Walmart associates are also available to  answer supplier questions about our"
"responsible sourcing expectations. Select Responsible Sourcing Policies Policy Description Associate Policies Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct applies to all Walmart associates globally and prohibits the use of underage or forced labor anywhere we do business,  sets the expectation that all Walmart associates know and uphold our Standards for Suppliers, and obligates associates to comply with all other  relevant policies. Global Responsible Sourcing  Compliance Policy The Global Responsible"
"Sourcing Compliance Policy establishes requirements for our merchandising and sourcing associates to buy and  source from responsible supply chains, including by: sourcing from responsible suppliers; communicating expectations and holding suppliers  accountable to the Standards for Suppliers and other requirements; and considering how certain buying practices might create pressures on  suppliers and facilities that may increase risk. Global Forced Labor  Prevention Policy The Global Forced Labor"
"Prevention Policy sets requirements for all Walmart associates regarding the prevention of forced labor and conveys the  expectation that our suppliers uphold the principles in the policy. Supplier Policies Standards for Suppliers Walmart’s Standards for Suppliers apply to all suppliers that sell their products to us for resale or for Walmart’s own use. Suppliers are expected to  cascade these requirements throughout their supply chains, including raw material, component or ingredient suppliers,"
"and subcontractors and  agents. These foundational expectations address fundamental issues such as worker safety, forced labor, and harassment and discrimination in  the workplace. Conflict Minerals Policy The Conflict Minerals Policy lays out Walmart’s expectations for product supplies to actively support Walmart’s conflict minerals disclosure  requirements, consistent with corresponding OECD guidance. Seller Policies Standards for Sellers  Prohibited Products Policy Walmart’s Standards for"
"Sellers Prohibited Products Policy outlines requirements for goods sold on our online platforms such as Walmart.com,  including noting that our global prohibition against forced labor also applies to Marketplace sellers. FY2025 ESG Report  54  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability"
"Monitoring for Compliance We monitor supplier compliance with our Standards, including by assessing risks and  requiring risk-based third-party audits of suppliers’ facilities. In FY2025, third-party audits  took place in 77 countries. Metrics FY2025 Supplier-disclosed facilities in “active” status45 24,700 Number of third-party responsible sourcing facility  audit reports assessed 13,300 Assessing Risk: Walmart has adopted a supply chain risk assessment process using  continuously updated data"
"from Walmart’s facility audits and investigations, along  with publicly available data, to identify the prevalence of issues occurring in countries  where Walmart has sourcing activity. This process helps determine risk level of various  geographies and to determine how best to allocate resources. Disclosing Facilities: Our disclosure requirements  state that suppliers must disclose  any facilities they are using to produce private and exclusive brands for resale; any  Walmart-branded Goods not"
"for Resale; and any product where Walmart is the importer of  record. Additionally, in high-risk markets we require other facilities to be disclosed. Auditing Facilities: We use a risk-based approach to auditing that focuses on disclosed  facilities and allocates audit resources to those facilities that may pose a higher risk of  non-compliance with Walmart’s Standards for Suppliers or where non-compliance poses  a higher risk to the company. Relevant risk factors include: •"
"Region/Territory Risk: Regions and territories are assigned risk levels based on  British Standards Institution (BSI) indicators. •     Import Channel: New facilities that produce products where Walmart will be the  importer of record must be audited and receive an acceptable result prior to beginning  production for Walmart. •       Prior Audit Results: Upon audit, facilities are given a rating from Red to Green. Re-audit  requirements are determined by prior audit results. Walmart associates"
"review each audit submitted and assign a rating to indicate its compliance  and risk level. See our Audit and Assessment Policy & Guidance for more information. Managing Non-Compliance and Risk The vast majority of audited supplier facilities are found to be either fully compliant  (receiving a Green rating) or largely compliant (receiving a Yellow rating) with our  foundational expectations. In the most recent audit cycle, the increase in Green ratings  was driven by enhanced remediation"
"efforts. Our policy requires suppliers to remediate any non-compliances identified in relation  to our Standards for Suppliers. Re-auditing helps us monitor whether those issues have  been resolved or persist. Many of our approved auditing frameworks also mandate the  correction of identified issues as a condition for producing an audit. Audits and investigations occasionally uncover more serious concerns. For example, in  FY2025, 12.3% of audits resulted in a facility receiving an Orange"
"rating. In such instances,  Walmart’s compliance teams collaborate with merchants and sourcing teams to engage  the supplier, communicate the findings and expectations, and offer a limited number of  opportunities to improve the facility’s rating to Green or Yellow. Red ratings are assigned in instances where we identify violations—such as fire or structural  safety concerns—that justify suspending or permanently ending a facility’s ability to  produce product for Walmart. When audit findings or"
"allegations raise particularly serious  concerns —or when we lack enough information to make a determination—Walmart  investigators are dispatched to conduct onsite inspections or gather facts through other  means. Serious allegations warranting further scrutiny may involve signs of forced labor,  such as restricted freedom of movement and the charging of recruitment fees to workers. Between 2020 and 2024, Walmart stopped doing business with 20 suppliers due to  serious violations of our"
"standards. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 Red Orange Yellow Green 30.6% 56.7% 12.3% 0.2% Assessed Audits by Color Rating Ratings Breakdown 13,300 Third-Party Audit  Reports Assessed As facilities in regions/territories with  higher levels of risk are subject to  more frequent audits than facilities  in lower-risk regions/territories, this  data skews toward those facilities in  higher-risk regions/territories. Worker Voice and Allegations of Non-Compliance We open a case whenever we receive credible"
"information alleging serious violations of our  standards by a supplier or its facilities. This information may come through various channels,  including our Walmart associates or audit findings. Whether an allegation qualifies for our  formal case management process is determined using criteria informed by the International  Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Walmart offers several ways for workers—or anyone with relevant information—to report"
"concerns directly to the company. These include a 24/7 global helpline available in  29 languages, a dedicated email address (ethics @ walmart.com), and our ethics website  (walmartethics.com). We also provide suppliers with posters that explain how workers can  use these reporting channels. Suppliers of Walmart-branded product and product where  Walmart will be the importer of record are required to distribute these materials throughout  their supply chains to ensure broad awareness and"
"accessibility. FY2025 Responsible Sourcing Allegations Received,  by Allegation Category Category Number of  Cases Opened Safety Conditions 68 Involuntary or Underage Labor 128 Unauthorized Production 505  Employment Practices 114 Integrity 54  Working Conditions 53 Proactive Site Visits 114 Other 127 Total Cases 1,163 45        Where a facility is required to be disclosed to Walmart, “Active” status denotes that the supplier can use the facility for Walmart production. FY2025 ESG Report  55"
"INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Collaborating to Address Systemic Risk As part of our human rights due diligence, Walmart and the Walmart Foundation  collaborate with suppliers, NGOs, experts, and others to tackle the root causes of systemic  risks to worker well-being."
"Together, we support innovative solutions and promote  widespread adoption of best practices. Our efforts focus on responsible recruitment,  safe and fair working conditions, and worker safety—especially within 10 priority retail  supply chains.  To help prioritize key geographies and supply chains, we considered: •         Internal Information: Walmart’s salient human rights issues; Responsible Sourcing  Compliance risk assessment results; sourcing and compliance data; and sourcing  and sales"
"data •     External Information: World Bank Worldwide Governance Indicators; Global Slavery  Proportions Index; BSI Supply Chain Risks Reports; and government, NGO, and  media reports. While specific interventions vary based on the supply chain and issues involved, our  work across the 10 retail supply chains generally includes the following approaches  (with examples): •     Engaging Suppliers to Reinforce Expectations, Build Capacity, and Continuously  Improve: Walmart’s Standards for"
"Suppliers, Seafood Policy, Ethical Charter, Walmart  Supplier Leadership Program for responsible recruitment •         Collaborating With Stakeholders in Consortia or Task Forces to Develop and  Share Best Practices: Responsible Labor Initiative, Life and Building Safety coalition,  Leadership Group for Responsible Recruitment, Seafood Task Force •         Investing in Data and Technology to Increase Transparency Around Labor Practices:  Electronic vessel monitoring, improved working conditions"
"data, development of a  recruitment cost calculator, building a responsible recruitment register •         Strengthening Capacity and Demand for Responsible Labor Practices: Training for  workers and local NGOs on worker rights, tools to help workers find and work with  ethical recruitment agencies •      Enhancing Worker and Community Voices: Nirapon, LABS, and Polaris worker voice  channels; Issara Institute •    Engaging With Governments to Advocate for Laws, Regulations, and Enforcement:"
"Engaging governments on responsible recruitment and migration. See FY2025 Walmart Worker Dignity in Retail Supply Chains for more information. Worker Dignity in 10 Retail Supply Chains Collaborating to tackle the root causes of systemic risks Apparel from Bangladesh Tuna from Thailand Shrimp from Thailand Produce from U.S. & Mexico Electronics from Malaysia Hard Home from Malaysia Home Textiles  & Apparel from India Home Textiles  & Apparel from Vietnam Apparel from Guatemala Apparel from Jordan"
"Challenges •        Human rights risks are complex and are often the result of systemic issues including  deeply entrenched economic practices; workers lacking knowledge, support, or tools  to safeguard their rights; and inconsistent government regulation and enforcement.  These factors make it challenging for any single organization to have an impact. •        Progress in addressing human rights issues depends on the maturity, rigor, and efficacy  of local and national infrastructure, supported"
"by means such as third-party standards  and initiatives. Due to differences amongst nations and cultures, there currently is no  universal set of standards and best practices for responsible or sustainable production  and/or certification beyond compliance with the law (e.g., responsible recruitment,  hourly wages). Furthermore, there are limits to the efficacy of tools used to monitor  compliance with our expectations. •      The success of Walmart’s programs is dependent on the performance,"
"capacity, and  willingness of our suppliers to meet high standards. •        Human rights risks are often localized and beyond the reach of traditional retailer  oversight and monitoring tools. While the use of technology to improve transparency  and traceability may help, further innovation is necessary to address risks and, even  then, adoption takes time. •   The breadth of Walmart’s global product offerings and dispersed geographical reach of  supply chains can present challenges for"
"supplier engagement and risk identification  and mitigation. Moreover, certain products can only be obtained from specific regions  of the world, limiting options for alternative sources. FY2025 ESG Report  56  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Animal Welfare Our Aspiration We"
"aspire to meet demand for affordable protein  while improving animal welfare, including the humane  treatment of farm animals and responsible use  of antibiotics. Relevance to Our Business and Society Our stakeholders—including customers, suppliers,  farmers, veterinarians, and others—share a common  goal: meeting the growing demand for affordable  protein while advancing animal welfare. They expect  Walmart to work collaboratively with suppliers to  address animal welfare concerns across our"
"supply  chains and to promote the responsible use of antibiotics.  While affordability remains a top priority, our customers  also count on us to offer products that reflect their  values and support public health. Our Approach Animal Welfare Position: Our Animal Welfare Position,  which was updated in 2025, makes five asks of suppliers  related to principles, reporting, transparency, standards,  and solutions. FY2025 ESG Report  57  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS &"
"INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Walmart’s Animal Welfare Position The Animal Welfare Position, which was updated in 2025, makes five asks of suppliers: Principles: Adopt and implement the principles of the Five Freedoms or Five Domains,  and publish a policy on animal welfare Reporting: Report to authorities and take appropriate action"
"in any cases of animal abuse Transparency: Promote transparency by providing an animal welfare report to Walmart  and publicly report against their own animal welfare policies Standards: Utilize species-specific industry welfare standards with assurance to promote  standardized accountability on welfare approaches Solutions: Find and test solutions to relevant issues by species. Animal Welfare Metrics FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Percentage of Walmart U.S. and Sam’s Club U.S. cage-free shell eggs, as"
"percentage of total  shell egg net sales, based on supplier reports46 Walmart U.S. 27.7% 27.4% 21.0%  40.5% 64.5% Sam’s Club U.S. 65.0% Percentage of shell eggs at Walmart U.S. and Sam’s Club U.S. meeting United Egg Producers  animal welfare requirements or equivalent, based on supplier reports Walmart U.S.  100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Sam’s Club U.S. 100% Percentage of Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club U.S. fresh pork suppliers abiding by the standards  of the National Pork Board’s Pork Quality"
"Assurance Plus Program, based on supplier reports Walmart U.S. 100% 100% 100% 100%  100%  Sam’s Club U.S. 100%  Percentage of Member’s Mark poultry that is antibiotic-free47 76.5% 77.1% — Percentage of Walmart U.S. product net sales of fresh and frozen beef, pork, and poultry; shell eggs; and fluid dairy milk  covered by suppliers reporting on antibiotic use through THESIS48 53.8% 47.2% 46.3% Key Strategies, Progress, and Challenges Animal/Protein Walmart Policies  and Positions Relevant Third-"
"Party  Standards Key Actions Challenges Housing and General  Welfare Shell eggs Animal Welfare  Position: Cage-Free  Egg Supply Position United Egg Producers  Animal Husbandry  Guidelines •  Investing in price to encourage purchases of cage-free eggs •   Allocating favorable shelf space and placement to favor cage-free eggs •        Shifting 100% of Member’s Mark U.S. shell eggs intended for  household consumption to cage-free49 •     Avian influenza leading to higher egg prices and reduced"
"availability of cage-free eggs •       Higher cost of cage-free egg production and high cost of conversion to cage-free systems •      Affordability of cage-free eggs, given higher production costs, and resulting lower demand •    Despite our efforts, the supply chain and customer demand have not kept pace with our  aspiration to transition to a full cage-free egg supply chain. Read more about our efforts:  Our Journey Toward 100% Cage-Free Eggs Supply Chain: Progress & Challenges. Swine Animal"
"Welfare  Position: Swine  Assurance Position National Pork Board Pork  Quality Assurance Plus  Program •   Engaging suppliers in compliance with code of conduct for  animal welfare •     Engaging NGOs academics and industry groups in order to share best  practices and trade offs in the use of sow gestation crates, e.g. timing  and duration, and to pursue continuous improvement in animal welfare •    Cost of transitioning production to minimize the use of sow gestation crates •  Commoditization"
"of supply, reducing transparency into welfare considerations and  increasing the difficulty of changing practices •     Differing perspectives on animal welfare outcomes of different housing systems Antibiotics All meat, seafood,  deli, dairy, and  egg suppliers Antibiotics in Farm  Animals Position American Veterinary  Medical Association’s  Judicious Use Principles  of Antimicrobials U.S. Food and Drug  Administration’s Voluntary  Guidance for Industry #209 •       Utilizing THESIS to engage"
"suppliers on antibiotic practices, including  tracking medically important antibiotic use •  Conducting a landscape analysis on the use of antibiotics, including  transparency measures and Judicious Use Principles •      Engaging suppliers, scientists, and civil society on best practices •   Engaging suppliers in support of Sam’s Club Member’s Mark  no antibiotics ever goal for poultry •       Flock disease requiring the use of antibiotics 46      Supporting the goal to transition Walmart U.S."
"and Sam’s Club U.S. to a 100% cage-free egg supply chain by 2025, subject to regulatory changes and based on available supply, affordability, and customer demand. 47    Supporting Sam’s Club U.S. Member’s Mark goal of “no antibiotics ever” poultry (excluding pet food) by 2025. 48 Suppliers report in THESIS on their use during the prior 12 months. Net sales figures include the product net sales for the previous four quarters prior to reporting (Q3 through Q2) and excludes deli meat or processed"
"meat in frozen value-added items.  49 Shell eggs categorized as ‘cage-free’ include those reported by suppliers as cage-free, free range, pasture-raised or both organic and cage-free. Organic non-cage-free eggs were excluded alongside other conventionally farmed eggs. Member’s Mark eggs are unavailable in our Hawaii Clubs, and as of June 2025, Sam’s Club U.S. operates in all U.S states except Alaska, Massachusetts, Oregon, Rhode Island,  Vermont, and Washington. FY2025 ESG Report  58"
"INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Product Supply Chain Sustainability This section summarizes information discussed in other sections. For more comprehensive discussion of these topics, including our approaches,  initiatives, and challenges, please read more in the  Climate"
"Resilience, Energy, and Emissions; Regeneration of Natural Resources; Waste:  Circular Economy; Supplier Opportunity; People in Supply Chains; Human Rights; Animal Welfare; and Safer, Healthier Products sections. Our Aspiration We aim to accelerate and integrate sustainability across  our products and supply chain, with a focus on climate,  nature, waste, worker livelihoods, and affordable,  safer goods. We advance this agenda through clear  sourcing standards, supplier engagement, transparent"
"measurement, cross-industry collaboration, customer  education, advocacy, and complementary philanthropy. Relevance to Our Business and Society Retail supply chains bring quality, affordable products to  consumers around the world. Adopting more sustainable  practices can create value for companies and for society  by increasing supply chain resilience and efficiency,  improving product availability and quality, mitigating  risk, creating opportunities for workers, and sustaining  license to"
"operate. Our Approach Product Sourcing Standards: Setting requirements  and standards for Walmart product sourcing to facilitate  progress toward aspirations. Supplier Engagement: Collaborating with suppliers  to drive action, share best practices, and encourage  transparency. Industry Collaboration: Participating in consortia and  initiatives to accelerate industry-wide progress. Customer Education: Helping customers make  informed choices. Policy Advocacy: Supporting public policies that align"
"with sustainable supply chain priorities. Philanthropic Investment: Funding efforts to enhance  traceability, build capacity for regenerative practices,  conserve high-value ecosystems, and support place- based commodity initiatives. FY2025 ESG Report  59  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain"
"Sustainability Select Priorities and Strategies by Product Category Consumables Food Apparel, Fashion, and Home Entertainment, Toys, and Seasonal and Hardlines Improvement Priorities GHG emissions, packaging and product waste, DCF sourcing, addressing systemic risks to worker dignity in global value chains such as forced labor and worker safety Sustainable chemistry Biodiversity; soil health, water management, and agriculture inputs;  animal welfare; food waste; food safety, healthier"
"formulations Improved farming practices and chemical management  in production Assortment of energy efficient products; waste reduction  through sustainable packaging Strategies and Initiatives Climate Engage suppliers through Project Gigaton on energy, nature, waste, packaging, transportation, and product use and design; provide suppliers with tools, resources, and solutions; participate in consortia and advocate for public policy in line with our  Statement on Climate Policy Waste Optimize"
"packaging design, working with suppliers to eliminate unnecessary packaging, design for recycling, and increase recycled content; facilitate a transition toward circularity by enabling customer recycling and supporting improved recycling  infrastructure and collection access commercially and through philanthropy; promote innovation and best practices, including through supplier engagement, developing and sharing resources, and collaboration Provide alternatives to single-use products and  pilot"
"reusable packaging and refillable solutions Engage suppliers; participate in consortia on food waste; and  report on food waste reduction Increase recycled polyester50 in products; promote reuse and  upcycling; factory emissions; waste reduction Develop reuse and end-of-life solutions (pre-owned and  refurbished, trade in, take-back, and device repair services) Nature Identify, measure, and assess nature-related dependencies, impacts, risk, and opportunities; set sourcing policies and position"
"statements, including improvement practices, product specifications, and certifications; foster more sustainable production  of commodities through supplier engagement, industry initiatives, and philanthropic investments; support conservation and restoration through industry initiatives and philanthropic engagements; support industry action and foster an enabling  environment, including through advocacy for public policy; support place-based partnerships that combine conservation, restoration,"
"and sustainable management, as well as supporting innovation, research, and practice adoption Source deforestation and conversion free private  brand pulp, paper and products containing palm oil Source certified commodities (e.g., seafood, coffee); host  sustainable food summits; encourage place-based sourcing  initiatives; engage suppliers in addressing deforestation and  conversation, pollinator health, regenerative agriculture, sustainable  seafood, and animal welfare Source more sustainable"
"cotton and man-made cellulosic  fibers; source from suppliers using HIGG FEM; source  deforestation and conversion‑free, private brand timber (Home)  Source deforestation or conversion-free pulp, paper, and timber  private brand products; Implement Forests Policy Responsible  Sourcing/ Addressing  Worker  Dignity Promote responsible sourcing through standards, engagement, training, and monitoring; collaborate with suppliers, consortia, and NGOs to address systemic risks in retail value chains;"
"philanthropically support strengthening demand for responsible labor  practices, data and transparency, enhancing worker and community voice, and strong policy and regulation Promote supplier enforcement of the Ethical Charter Implementation  Program; engage produce and seafood suppliers to set goals and  report on responsible recruitment; engage in industry initiatives  such as the Seafood Task Force and the Consumer Goods Forum Leverage Nirapon and LABS to improve worker safety; engage"
"apparel, fashion, and home suppliers to set goals and report on  responsible recruitment Promote information and communication technology supplier  implementation of the Responsible Business Alliance Code of  Conduct; engage electronics and home suppliers to set goals  and report on responsible recruitment Inclusive  Economic  Development Support local manufacturing through local sourcing efforts; promote supplier development through a focus on small and emerging businesses; enhance capacity and"
"market access through supplier development, sourcing, and philanthropy Safer,  Healthier  Products Enhance product safety through standards, testing, training, and collaboration, including alignment with the Standards for Suppliers Encourage suppliers to reduce priority chemicals  and disclose formulations Enhance food safety through standards, auditing and industry  collaboration; offer convenient access to affordable, healthy food;  health and wellness solutions (specialty diets, made without)"
"20x2025 Enhance sustainability of 20 commodities by 2025 through the initiatives described above. See special report on FY2025 Walmart Sustainable Commodities Report. 50     At the time of this reporting, Walmart Canada does not expect to meet the 2025 commitment for recycled polyester, based on current data, assumptions, and external dependencies. This forward-looking statement is subject to change based on evolving conditions and should not be interpreted as a guarantee of future performance."
"FY2025 ESG Report  60  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions Regeneration of Natural Resources Waste: Circular Economy People in Supply Chains Animal Welfare Product Supply Chain Sustainability Product Supply Chain Sustainability—Select Metrics Category Metric FY2025 Climate Expected emissions avoided, reduced, or sequestered carbon reported by suppliers in Project Gigaton CY2024 1.19 billion metric tons CO2e"
"Number of suppliers reporting to Project Gigaton 3,740  Nature Total acres of land engaged in more sustainable management, protection, and/or restoration 43.3 million acres Total square miles of ocean engaged in more sustainable management, protection, and/or restoration 1.93 million square miles Waste Percentage of global Walmart private brand plastic packaging that is designed for recycling CY2024 82.6% Estimated percentage of global private brand packaging that is recyclable, reusable, or"
"industrially compostable CY2024 66.1%  Opportunity Number of people expected to be supported by Walmart Foundation grants to help build capacity and advance  the economic livelihoods of smallholders in India  700,000 Dollars spent with certified and verified U.S. small businesses $65.0 billion Worker Dignity Number of suppliers setting goals and/or reporting progress related to responsible recruitment through the  Walmart Supplier Leadership Program CY2024 1,000 Percentage of suppliers rated"
"Green or Yellow 87.3% Safer, Healthier  Products Priority Chemical Intensity (weight of priority chemicals relative to total product weight) 1.69% Percentage of Member’s Mark food and beverage products that are free of ingredients on our Made Without list 96% For updates on Walmart’s progress towards product supply chain sustainability see FY2025 Walmart Report on Sustainable Commodities. Challenges •      Achieving our sustainable supply chain aspirations necessitates progress across  multiple"
"dimensions, each with its own significant challenges. •       While Walmart can play a substantial role through our own operations, supply chain,  and beyond, achieving the IPCC goal of reducing global GHG emissions to net-zero  by 2050 requires action from all parts of society. Walmart’s ability to reduce emissions  is dependent on the collaboration, cooperation, and performance of third parties  (including governments, civil society, and industry, as well as our own suppliers  and customers)."
"•         As we work toward the achievement of our goals and commitments, the science,  available data, methodologies for assessing risk and measuring impact, and reporting  standards evolve. Policy approaches shift as well. As we continue to align to the latest  scientific evidence, available data, reporting standards, and policies, our approaches  and methodologies for measurement and reporting may change. •     Reducing waste requires engagement and large-scale behavior change. Factors such"
"as product quality, shelf life, inventory management, customer preferences and risk of  product damage must be balanced when making packaging decisions. Suppliers must  be willing and able to implement product design and packaging options consistent  with Walmart’s objectives, and customers need to make choices in favor of circularity  when purchasing products and properly handling packaging material (e.g., reducing,  reusing, recycling). •  Progress in addressing human rights issues depends on"
"the maturity, rigor, and efficacy  of local and national infrastructure, supported by means such as third-party standards  and initiatives, which requires a critical mass of suppliers and other businesses to align  on common standards and best practices. Due to differences amongst nations and  cultures, there currently is no universal set of standards for responsible or sustainable  production and/or certification beyond compliance with the law (e.g., responsible  recruitment, hourly wages)."
"Furthermore, there are limits to the efficacy of tools used  to monitor compliance with expectations. FY2025 ESG Report  61  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Community As an omnichannel retailer dedicated to helping  people save money and live better, serving  communities is core to our mission. We focus on  providing convenient access to affordable, quality  food, products, and services; contributing to the  economic vitality of communities by"
"providing  good jobs, training and career paths; investing in  local suppliers; helping prepare for and respond to  disasters; and supporting organizations and causes  that matter to our customers and associates. In This Section 63    Serving Communities 68  Safer, Healthier Products 71    Disaster Preparedness and Response $2B $2 billion in cash and  in-kind donations in  FY2025 855M 855 million pounds  of food donated globally  in 2024 97.7% 97.7% of stores  participating in food  donation"
"program 93% Same-day delivery is  available to 93% of  U.S. households 96% 96% of Sam’s Club Member’s  Mark food and beverage  products meet ‘Made Without’  goals as of June 2025 $24.3M In FY2025, Walmart.org provided  $24.3 million in global cash and  in-kind for disaster recovery and  preparedness globally FY2025 ESG Report  62  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Serving Communities Safer, Healthier Products Disaster Preparedness and Response Serving"
"Communities Our Aspiration As a people-led, tech-powered omnichannel retailer,  we aspire to strengthen the vitality and resilience of the  communities we serve. Relevance to Our Business and Society Walmart serves hundreds of millions of customers every  week and employs approximately 2.1 million associates  who live and work in thousands of communities around  our stores, clubs, distribution and fulfillment centers,  and offices. Contributing to these communities supports  our customers and"
"associates while providing a more  productive and resilient operating environment for  our business. Our Approach Access to Affordable, Quality Products: Helping  people save money and live better by providing  convenient access to affordable, quality goods and  services through our omnichannel retail model and  everyday low prices. Contributing to Economic Vitality: Providing good jobs,  training, and career paths, sourcing from local suppliers,  contributing to the local tax base, and"
"investing in local  infrastructure through remodels and new store builds. Fostering Community Engagement: “Sparking good” by  providing philanthropic support for local organizations  and enabling associates, and to support causes that are  important to them; supporting programs that foster  meaningful connections; and engaging community  stakeholders. FY2025 ESG Report  63  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Serving Communities Safer, Healthier"
"Products Disaster Preparedness and Response Access to Affordable, Quality Products Our purpose is to help people save money and live better. We provide customers with  convenient, omnichannel access to affordable and quality food, apparel, household  items, and other products and services. We provide access through eCommerce  channels as well as through more than 10,750 stores and clubs globally (over 8,000 of  which offer pickup and delivery). Approximately 90% of the U.S. population lives"
"within  10 miles of a store or club. Same-day delivery is available to 93% of U.S. households. Affordable, Healthy Food We aim to be the trusted partner for customers to get well, be well, and feel well through  access to affordable, healthy food solutions. According to a recent study, close proximity  to a Walmart supercenter improves household and child food security, particularly for  low-income households and children.51 Assortment: We aim to provide everyday solutions for healthier eating"
"while continuing  to offer customer choice. We offer a broad assortment of fresh food, including organics.  We support diverse dietary needs through specialty offerings, distinctive private brands  like bettergoods and Member’s Mark, and digital tools to help customers discover the  products aligned with their lifestyles. Affordability: Saving people money on products they need, including healthy food,  is core to our purpose. Our private brands typically offer a price gap relative to national"
"brands and competitor retail brands. Throughout the year, we also aim to help customers  save money and eat well through special campaigns, for example, announcing “inflation  free” holiday meal kits. We provide options for SNAP (Supplemental Nutrition Assistance  Program) so customers can use their benefits in Walmart stores, participating Walmart  online pickup and delivery locations, and on Walmart.com in all 50 states; in select states  we are piloting a program to bring WIC (Women, Infants,"
"and Children) shopping online.  Additionally, we are developing an initiative to enable qualifying Medicare customers to  easily identify food products that are eligible for their personal purchasing plans. Supporting Community Food Security: Beyond our omnichannel retail business, Walmart  seeks to address food insecurity through donations of unsold food and philanthropic  support for organizations serving food-insecure individuals and families. Globally, Walmart donated more than 855 million"
"pounds of food in 2024. In the U.S.,  Walmart donated more than 752 million pounds in FY2025,52 57.8% of which was fruit,  vegetables, and meat, with 97.7% of U.S. stores and clubs participating in our food  donation program. Read more here. Walmart, alongside our customers and suppliers, supports Feeding America and its  network of food banks though our Fight Hunger. Spark Change. campaigns, which raise  funds and awareness among customers. The 2024 campaign raised $19.8 million in the  U.S."
"for Feeding America and its network of food banks, and similar campaigns have raised  more than $125 million in the U.S. over the last five years. We support initiatives to expand food access, including support for Code for America’s  Integrated Benefits initiative, which works to address barriers to the use of programs  like SNAP and WIC; mRelief, which provides an accessible online SNAP enrollment solution;  and Share Our Strength, which helps low-income families buy groceries for their"
"school- aged children during the summer. Additionally, we have supported Feeding America’s  work to innovate in the charitable meal system by supporting OrderAhead, a grocery  ordering platform that expands access to donated food through a convenient click-and- collect system. Health and Wellness Products and Services In addition to healthy food, Walmart and Sam’s Club offer a wide range of products and  services to support everyday wellness, preventive care, and active lifestyles, including"
"vitamins, supplements, over-the-counter medications, personal care items, health  monitoring devices, pharmacy, and vision care. In the U.S., we operate more than 5,000 pharmacies and more than 3,500 Vision Centers  in stores and clubs, with a focus on affordability and convenience. Notably, 4,000 of our  stores are located in U.S. medical professional shortage areas. We offer same-day pharmacy delivery to customers in 49 states and testing and treatment  for flu, strep, or COVID-19 in 21"
"states, with 73% of 2024 treatments occurring on weekends  or weekdays after 5pm. We also host Wellness Days, which provide free glucose,  cholesterol, BMI, and blood pressure screenings; wellness resources; and affordable  immunizations. Specialty Pharmacies within select Walmart pharmacies nationwide treating long-term  conditions that may be more difficult to manage, including autoimmune conditions like  HIV, and other special needs. These pharmacies offer nationwide shipping. Financial"
"Services Walmart aims to support the financial well-being of customers, associates, and small  businesses in our communities not only by lowering the cost of living but by providing  access to affordable and accessible financial services. Designed with the underserved  consumer in mind, our everyday low price services include: •         Convenient ways to pay bills with money orders and electronic bill payment for an  estimated 15,000 types of bills, including the ability to use select health"
"benefit funds  to pay for designated critical-need expenses •    Check cashing for payroll, government assistance, and personal checks •         Low-fee money transfers to 200+ countries and territories •     Access to digital banking via Walmart’s affiliate OnePay, with no monthly account fees •        Tax preparation services available at 2,600 Walmart stores •    Installment lending solution available to millions of customers at the point of sale  in‑store and online. Walmart shares knowledge"
"with our customers to build trust and help keep them secure,  for example, we provide customers and the public with information about common  digital scams and fraud situations related to financial services, including gift cards and  prepaid money cards. 51   See Analysis Group white paper. 52     Based on reports from Feeding America. Walmart’s 2024 campaign raised $19.8 million  in the U.S. for Feeding America and  its network of food banks, and similar  campaigns have raised more than $125"
"million  in the U.S. over the last five years. FY2025 ESG Report  64  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Serving Communities Safer, Healthier Products Disaster Preparedness and Response Contributing to Economic Vitality We invest in the economic vitality of communities by: •    Creating good jobs, training, and career paths that benefit our associates, their families,  and the communities where they live •      Investing in local suppliers who employ"
"members of the community •      Contributing to the local tax base, which supports community services  and infrastructure •     Investing in our facilities in ways that expand local economic activity. Economically vital communities provide a strong base of customers and associates that  help our company thrive. Providing Good Jobs, Training, and Career Paths We believe retail can be a springboard for economic opportunity. By providing quality  jobs, training, and career paths, Walmart aims to"
"meet our customers’ expectations while  retaining great talent and contributing to local employment and workforce development. Walmart offers market-attractive wages and benefits, on-the-job skill-building, other  educational opportunities, and opportunities to advance in a wide range of career paths.  Our investments in frontline retail workers also create value beyond Walmart: communities  need good, low-barrier entry-level jobs at competitive wages to provide pathways for  community members"
"to acquire in-demand skills and knowledge. These jobs create  pathways to jobs with higher responsibility and pay, supporting workforce development  and strengthening local economies. Read more in the Our People: Associate Experiences  and Paths of Opportunity section. Investing in Local Suppliers By investing in our suppliers, Walmart aims not only to serve our customers but also to  help support jobs and economic growth in local markets where we operate. Examples  include initiatives focused"
"on market access for smallholder farmers and small and  medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), exports from India, and our $350 billion, 10-year  U.S. manufacturing initiative (estimated to catalyze more than 750,000 new jobs in  communities around the country). Read more in the Supplier Opportunity section. Store and Club Expansion and Remodels Walmart has invested tens of billions of dollars in thousands of store and club remodels,  including $5.55 billion in FY2025. These investments benefit local"
"communities by creating  employment opportunities for skilled labor, driving supply procurement, and generating  increased tax revenue. Tax Contributions Walmart contributes significantly to the tax base in the thousands of communities where  we operate. Over the past three years (FY2023–FY2025), Walmart has paid more than  $15 billion in income-based taxes globally, including more than $5.88 billion in FY2025. In addition to income-based taxes, Walmart is taxed directly, for example, through"
"payroll,  use, and property taxes at the state, provincial, and local levels. These tax dollars provide  revenue to fund services, projects, and programs such as fire, police, schools, libraries, and  community health services. Walmart also reduces the administrative burden on national, state, provincial, and local  governments by collecting sales and value-added taxes on their behalf in compliance with  relevant laws and regulations. In the U.S., we publish the amount of sales tax we collect"
"and remit in all 50 U.S. states on our corporate website. And as an employer, Walmart compensates approximately 2.1 million associates at our  stores, clubs, warehouses, and offices worldwide. These jobs enable our associates to  participate in their local economies and communities and, in most jurisdictions, also  generate tax revenue through income and social insurance taxes. FY2025 ESG Report  65  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Serving"
"Communities Safer, Healthier Products Disaster Preparedness and Response Fostering Community Engagement Walmart seeks to strengthen the communities we serve through philanthropic support  and stakeholder engagement. Community Engagement Metrics FY2025 Global: Cash and in-kind donations from Walmart.org53 $2 billion Global: Cash donations $282 million Global: In-kind donations $1.72 billion U.S.: Number of volunteer hours reported by associates 295,000 hours U.S.: Dollars donated by Walmart and"
"the Walmart Foundation  to match associate and customer donations made through the  Spark Good platform $14.2 million U.S.: Customer donations $111 million U.S. and Canada: Local facility grants $54.6 million U.S.: Associate donations and match funding $6.70 million  In FY2025, Walmart.org donated $2.0 billion through cash and in-kind donations as part of  our commitment to serving communities. Along with providing resources to community  organizations, Walmart seeks to empower associates,"
"customers, and facilities to support  the causes that matter most to them. In the U.S., for example, our  Spark Good program  encourages associates, customers, and facilities  to engage with community organizations.  The Spark Good digital platform provides 55,400 community organizations with a full suite  of local engagement resources in one place. Customer Engagement In addition to enabling customer giving through Spark Good’s Round Up and Registry programs,  we engage our customers through"
"our fundraising campaigns: in FY2025, customers donated  $111 million to causes including Fight Hunger. Spark Change., Children’s Miracle Network,  Operation Homefront, and the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation. 55,400 organizations enrolled on the  Spark Good digital platform. ¢ In the U.S., the Spark Good platform on Walmart.com provides community organizations access to resources. Customer Engagement Connect customers with opportunities  to support local causes Round Up Customers shopping"
"on the Walmart.com app  can round up their purchase at checkout to  donate to a charity or school they choose. Registry Nonprofits and schools can create lists of  needed items that customers can purchase  and ship directly to the organization. Facility Engagement Raise awareness and provide charitable  donations to local organizations Local Grants Walmart stores, Sam’s Clubs, and distribution and  fulfillment centers award Spark Good local grants  to support organizations in their communities."
"Storefront Requests Organizations can request to use the storefront  at their local Walmart to raise funds and drive  awareness. Associate Engagement Empower associates to support causes  that are meaningful to them Giving Associates can give to the causes they care  about, and Walmart offers matching campaigns  to extend the impact of their donations. Volunteerism Associates can find volunteer opportunities in  their communities and request Spark Good  matching grants for eligible volunteer"
"hours. Campaigns  Customers and associates are invited to support select nonprofits through fundraising campaigns. Facility Engagement As an omnichannel retailer, Walmart’s physical presence in thousands of communities  enhances our ability to support the local organizations that matter most to our customers.  For example, in the U.S. and Canada, our stores and clubs, as well as distribution and  fulfillment centers, select local organizations to receive grants—awarding $54.6 million in  local"
"grants in FY2025 alone. In the U.S., we also make our storefronts and parking lots available to select organizations,  such as The Salvation Army for their iconic red kettle holiday campaign (which raised  $35.4 million in 2024). And when disasters strike a community, Walmart regularly activates  its parking lots as resource hubs, allowing responding organizations to stage mobile  response units and distribute information. Read more in the Disaster Preparedness and  Response section. Associate"
"Engagement Walmart associates are passionate about giving back to their communities. We support  their engagement with community organizations through: •        Periodic matching campaigns in the U.S., including Season of Giving, which in FY2025  matched $3 million in U.S. associates’ donations, resulting in a total of $6 million  supporting 13,000 charities. •      Providing cash donations for each eligible hour that U.S. associates volunteer. In  FY2025, 20,400 U.S. associates reported 295,000"
"volunteer hours at charitable  organizations. •     Engaging our associates in group volunteerism activities; for example, in 2024,  35,200 associates in our Walmart Mexico and Central America business supported  2,330 volunteerism activities, including reforestation and public space cleanups. 53  Total global giving includes cash donations made by Walmart Inc and subsidiaries and related charitable entities, and estimated value of in-kind donations. FY2025 ESG Report  66  INTRODUCTION"
"OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Serving Communities Safer, Healthier Products Disaster Preparedness and Response Building Caring and Connected Communities In many communities, Walmart is a gathering place where families and neighbors  shop and spend time with one another. We believe that connected communities  are stronger and more resilient, so in FY2025, Walmart.org provided $6.12 million in  funding to organizations that are creating opportunities for people"
"to come together. More in Common has found that seven in 10 Americans want to connect with people  whose backgrounds and viewpoints differ from their own, especially when working  together toward a shared goal. We’re excited about bringing people together in  ways that foster greater understanding, connectedness, and positive impact in the  communities we serve. Building Strong Community and Constituent Relationships Our stores and clubs serve as focal points for our engagement with local"
"communities.  As of FYE2025, 1,650 stores have trained Community Champions, associates who help  strengthen relationships between their stores and local communities by engaging  associates and customers through in-store activations, representing Walmart in community  events, supporting Walmart’s local charitable giving, and driving volunteer events. When stores and clubs remodel, they often hold special community events in  celebration of their re-grand openings. For example, they may award"
"special  community grants, celebrate local community organizations and nonprofits, or  recognize associates and local suppliers who have contributed to the community. The Walmart Community Mural Program celebrates the unique cultures of our  communities. Artists create original artworks that grace our store walls, incorporating  local cultural elements suggested by local associates and sparking connection and  conversation. In FY2025, 599 additional murals were completed in Walmart stores"
"for a total of 1,680 across the U.S. We also engage community stakeholders to get feedback about Walmart’s business  and ways in which Walmart might contribute to constructive solutions for associates,  customers, and communities. Our dedicated Constituent Relations team engages  and facilitates collaborations among many stakeholder organizations, including those  organizations close to underrepresented and underserved communities, such as the  National Urban League, National Congress of"
"American Indians, The Association of  University Centers on Disabilities, International Women’s Forum, OCA-Asian Pacific  American Advocates, National Museum of the American Latino, and LGBTQ+  Victory Institute. The Center for Racial Equity Walmart.org’s Center for Racial Equity was established in 2020 as a five-year,  $100 million special initiative to address the root causes of gaps in outcomes  experienced by Black and African American people in the education, health,  finance, and criminal"
"justice systems. Over the past five years, the Center invested  in initiatives that aim to uplift all communities, completing its investments and  fulfilling the $100 million commitment in June 2025. The Center has focused on empowering communities by supporting research,  advocacy, and innovative interventions to foster better outcomes for people.  The Center’s philanthropic investments have aimed to complement and extend  the impact of Walmart’s business efforts in sourcing from small"
"businesses  (helping entrepreneurs get access to capital and business development  programs), health and wellness (expanding access to culturally relevant food  and nutrition programs), economic mobility (supporting on-the-job upskilling  and non-degree credentials to help working adults get a better start and  advance in their careers; supporting youth training and employment programs  to deter young people from involvement in the criminal justice system), and  in creating a culture of"
"belonging where all feel seen, supported, and able to  achieve their full potential. Challenges •       Walmart’s ability to serve communities and strengthen community resilience depends  on collaboration with many stakeholders, whose priorities and level of engagement  may vary or change over time. Navigating the diverse and sometimes divergent  perspectives of our customers and other stakeholders can lead to the alienation of one  or more stakeholder groups. •      Economic factors (e.g.,"
"inflation, supply chain disruption) can also strain community  resources relative to needs. •   Changes in government regulation or policy at local, state, and even national levels can  enable or adversely affect community initiatives. •   Chronic underperformance of an individual store or club may compromise Walmart’s  ability to serve local communities. In some cases, this may even lead to closure of  facilities, further impacting community support. FY2025 ESG Report  67  INTRODUCTION"
"OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Serving Communities Safer, Healthier Products Disaster Preparedness and Response Safer, Healthier Products Our Aspiration We aim to improve the lives of people around the  world by providing access to and facilitating industry  innovation for safer, healthier, and affordable food  and products.  Relevance to Our Business and Society Walmart’s ability to provide safer, healthier, and affordable  food, products, and services to"
"customers is core to our  mission to help people save money and live better. Our customers, suppliers, and other stakeholders expect  us to offer a strong assortment of healthy and nutritious  products, uphold high safety standards, and promote  innovation to enable safer and healthier living. Our Approach Walmart’s Approach to Healthier Food: Walmart aims  to provide access to healthier food options through a  strong assortment, pricing, customer experience, and  philanthropic investments in"
"programs that support  food access and infrastructure. Food and Product Safety: Walmart is dedicated  to ensuring the safety and quality of food for our  customers, as well as enforcing product safety and  consumer protection policies, standards, and practices. Sustainable Chemistry: We aim to reduce the use of  priority chemicals by encouraging our suppliers to  reduce and eliminate the production and use of them in  existing products and introducing and curating brands  that avoid those"
"chemicals. FY2025 ESG Report  68  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Serving Communities Safer, Healthier Products Disaster Preparedness and Response Walmart’s Approach to Healthier Food Assortment Walmart provides access to affordable, nutritious food in thousands of communities  worldwide through our stores, clubs, and pickup and delivery services. In FY2025, 59.6%  of our Walmart U.S. net sales were from grocery items, and 66.4% of our Sam’s Club"
"U.S.  net sales were from groceries and consumables. We aim to be the leading provider of  everyday solutions for diverse dietary needs and preferences of our customers. Our  offerings include a wide variety of fresh produce, meat, seafood, and dairy, as well as  organics and prepared foods. We seek to provide customers with products made with simpler, more familiar ingredients.  For example, the Sam’s Club Member’s Mark brand has a Made Without commitment that  focused on removing artificial"
"colors and over 35 ingredients, including high fructose corn  syrup, from its products. Price Consistent with our everyday low price philosophy, we believe that cost should not be  an obstacle to healthy eating. For example, in  FY2025, we estimate that we saved our  customers and members $1.6 billion through price gaps on fresh fruits and vegetables. Experience We want to enhance customers’ confidence and ability to live a healthy lifestyle by offering  choice and helping them make decisions"
"that are right for them. Examples include: •   The Walmart.com Recipe Hub contains more than 500 recipes developed in  partnership with the American Diabetes Association; customers can order the  ingredients for these recipes in one click. •      Walmart U.S. has successfully integrated SNAP and WIC payments into grocery  pickup and delivery and has launched WIC Online in select states. •        We are innovating to find ways to improve customers’ ability to make heathy choices.  For instance,"
"we are rolling out Everyday Health Signals, an AI-driven platform for  health plans and benefit managers that makes it easier for their members to opt-in and  connect their Walmart account to receive nutrition insights for enhanced well-being. Expanding Access to Healthier Foods In addition to our business initiatives, Walmart and the Walmart Foundation support  efforts to improve nutrition in the communities we serve. For instance, in our home state  of Arkansas, we are bringing our business"
"and philanthropy to improve access to healthier,  affordable food, including by investing in the Arkansas Community Foundation to improve  food security over the next five years. Read more in the Serving Communities section. Food as Medicine Proper nutrition is crucial for managing and reversing chronic conditions such as diabetes  and heart disease. Our business offers access to food, as well as health and wellness  products and services that can help customers manage these conditions."
"Additionally, we seek to support third-party initiatives that more closely connect nutrition  and healthcare for people with chronic illnesses, including a Walmart Foundation grant  to the Urban Institute, seeking to make food as medicine programs more accessible and  relevant to people. FY2025 ESG Report  69  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Serving Communities Safer, Healthier Products Disaster Preparedness and Response Food and Product Safety"
"Walmart is committed to delivering safe, high-quality food and merchandise to  our customers. Our Global Food Safety program is designed to ensure compliance with regulatory  requirements and science-based standards. Rooted in Good Hygiene Practices and  Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) principles, the program emphasizes  rigorous safety controls and monitoring across the supply chain—from farm to table. In addition, Walmart promotes the safe use of merchandise through a risk-"
"based  Product Safety Program. This program supports associates in meeting federal, state,  and local safety regulations, as well as company policies. Product safety teams in each  market implement standards and procedures tailored to local laws and risks. Our Code of Conduct and Global Product Safety Compliance Policy outline clear  expectations for our associates regarding food and product safety. Read more in the Food Safety and Product Safety sections. Sustainable Chemistry Walmart aims to"
"reduce priority chemicals across Walmart U.S. and Sam’s Club U.S.  consumable products. To track progress, Underwriters Laboratories screens over 40,000  priority chemicals in products covered by Walmart’s Commitment on Sustainable Chemistry  in Formulated Consumables. As of 2024, the program included 60,300 products. We encourage suppliers to reduce or eliminate priority chemicals, increase ingredient  transparency, and pursue certifications such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s"
"Safer Choice program, EWG Verified, or Cradle to Cradle (silver level or above). In response, suppliers have shared their chemical reduction targets, and Walmart worked  with them to reformulate private and national brand products. While overall chemical intensity may fluctuate year to year, in 2024, we saw a 34-basis-point  decline in priority chemical intensity (total weight of priority chemicals relative to total  product weight) across in-scope products, reversing two years of increases. We"
"attribute the  progress made in 2024 to evolving customer shopping patterns, product reformulations,  and the launch of new items formulated without priority chemicals. Priority Chemical  Intensity Metrics CY2024 CY2023 CY2022 Priority Chemical Intensity (weight  of priority chemicals relative to  total product weight) 1.69%54 2.03% 1.93% Walmart publicly discloses answers to the 19 questions in the Chemical Footprint Survey  and our final score as part of the Chemical Footprint Project. Read"
"more about our  current approach in the Sustainable Chemistry Implementation Guide. Challenges •       Walmart’s ability to scale healthier food options is dependent on customer preferences  as well as demand (which can depend on the cost and convenience of such options)  and the availability and cost of preferred products, ingredients, commodities, and  inputs. Growth and changes in our business can challenge our ability to meet customer  demands consistent with our aspiration of healthier food"
"for all. •        Food and product safety programs are partially dependent on the maturity, rigor, and  efficacy of third-party standards, initiatives, and laboratories and there may be limits to  the efficacy of tools used to monitor compliance with expectations. 54      For CY2024 reporting, we used a new data source that provides more precise product weight measurements. The impact of this change is not material. FY2025 ESG Report  70  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS"
"& INTEGRITY APPENDIX Serving Communities Safer, Healthier Products Disaster Preparedness and Response Disaster Preparedness and Response Our Aspiration We aim to be a reliable resource in times of crisis, helping  communities prepare for and respond to disasters,  with a focus on associate well-being, serving customer  needs and providing relief to affected communities in  coordination with others. Relevance to Our Business and Society Disasters—including extreme weather events—impact  our"
"associates, customers, and communities, as well  as potentially hindering Walmart’s ability to serve  our customers. Through effective preparation and  mitigation, we can strengthen our business resilience  and help people respond and recover more quickly. Our Approach Advance Planning and Preparation: Walmart invests  in disaster preparedness, including risk assessments,  business continuity and crisis management planning,  and sharing best practices with stakeholders. Preparing and Supporting"
"Associates: We offer training,  resources, and support to help associates prepare for  and respond effectively in emergencies. Maintaining Operations for Customers: We aim to  maintain and restore operations to continue serving  customers swiftly and safely. Supporting Communities: We make philanthropic and  operational investments to strengthen the resilience  of disaster-prone areas and help communities respond  to disasters. FY2025 ESG Report  71  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY"
"COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Serving Communities Safer, Healthier Products Disaster Preparedness and Response Advance Planning and Preparation Recognizing that disasters could adversely affect our business performance,55 Walmart  invests in disaster preparedness, including risk assessments, business continuity and crisis  management planning, and training. Disaster Risk Scanning: Our GSOC is staffed by Walmart associates with a variety of  backgrounds and expertise (e.g., security, law"
"enforcement, meteorology, emergency  management, and resilience planning, etc.). Using internal and external data, the GSOC  proactively identifies, assesses, and manages risk events that could impact our associates,  operations, or supply chain. •        Using data from key sources like the National Weather Service’s National Hurricane  Center and Storm Prediction Center, we monitor and assess risks several days in  advance of their occurrence to prepare and protect our people and operations. •"
"We analyze data from past events to understand trends and predict needs to improve  how we prepare associates and operations, direct supplies and personnel, and build  plans to maintain or quickly restore operations. Enterprise Resilience Planning: Our enterprise resilience process aims to equip Walmart’s  business units to respond to disruptions and crises. The GSOC team facilitates these efforts  by engaging with and training business units to implement and update business continuity  and"
"crisis plans. We regularly test our plans through mock scenarios and tabletop exercises  that help us learn and identify improvements. Stakeholder Convening: We collaborate with and convene stakeholders to share learnings.  For instance, in FY2025 government and emergency management leaders from across  the country came to Bentonville to visit the GSOC and to discuss how to better coordinate  planning and recovery efforts. Supporting Our Stakeholders When Disasters Occur Associates Ensuring the"
"well-being of our  associates and their families Customers Maintaining and restoring our operations to  serve customers swiftly and safely Communities Helping vulnerable communities build resilience before  disasters and supporting impacted communities after disasters Preparing and Supporting Associates Our associates receive role-specific training in crisis management and business continuity  planning, including hands-on preparedness exercises, to ensure they’re equipped to  respond effectively"
"in disaster situations. Walmart also offers training and resources to help associates prepare themselves and their  families for emergency or crisis situations. Through OneWalmart.com, our associate-facing  website, we provide recommendations and best practices for what to do before, during, and  after a natural disaster or other business disruption. We also offer online training and resources  on how to create a personal emergency plan, which includes establishing communication  plans, building"
"an emergency supplies kit, and setting a family meeting place. In the event of a disaster, Walmart provides evacuation assistance for associates who must  leave their homes due to mandatory evacuation. Our GSOC team works with our Facilities  and People teams to check on the well-being of our associates and their families and  connect them to resources they may need. In situations where multiple Walmart locations  are impacted, this outreach can include thousands of associates. Real-time updates"
"are  shared with associates by email, OneWalmart.com, and through an associate hotline,  which is automatically updated and tailored to the caller’s work location. For associates  affected by temporary store or club closures, Walmart offers opportunities to work in  nearby stores and clubs. Walmart’s GSOC, operates 24/7, 365 days per year and serves as the central command  center for preparation and response. The GSOC fields calls and reports of incidents every  day from Walmart’s stores, clubs,"
"and facilities worldwide, including natural disasters and  other events that could impact Walmart associates, operations, and communities. GSOC  team members assess and triage each situation, offer guidance to responding associates,  and coordinate support.56 The GSOC can respond to events virtually or physically,  assembling support teams around the clock. Team members are regularly deployed to local sites, embedded with local emergency  managers, government responders, and other organizations"
"to facilitate communication  on the latest forecast and impacts, coordination of response and recovery efforts,  priorities, and support needs. 55 As stated in Walmart’s annual report on Form 10-K. 56   Adapted from FEMA’s National Response Framework. FY2025 ESG Report  72  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Serving Communities Safer, Healthier Products Disaster Preparedness and Response Maintaining Operations for Customers Customers turn to Walmart for"
"essential products and services, especially in times of  disaster. We engage in disaster preparedness and outreach and try to maintain or resume  our stores and club operations swiftly and safely. Preparatory activities for Walmart facilities include: •  Pre-shipping truckloads of water and other needed products to stores and clubs •        Changing TV broadcasts within stores in hurricane impact zones to show weather  forecasts or disaster preparedness videos •     Conducting roof checks and"
"facility walks to identify and address potential  damage points •    Pre-staging refrigerated trailers and mobile generators at locations that are at risk  of losing power. Recovery activities include: •  Publishing on Walmart’s website which stores and clubs are open, closed, or have  modified hours or services •  Assessing properties and buildings for water damage, flooding, roof damage, or  other issues and then deploying restoration technicians to restore our facilities to  operational"
"status •      Assessing the safety and viability of transportation routes to facilities in the impacted  area so that we can resume deliveries of products to stores and clubs, rerouting  if necessary •     Connecting facilities to generator power when grid power is unavailable, helping to  restore access to food, pharmaceuticals, and other necessary items •       Designating fuel lines for associates and first responders to be able to fuel vehicles  and generators. Mobile generators kept stores,"
"clubs, and distribution centers  powered for 65,100 hours in 2024. Supporting Communities Our philanthropic and operational investments in disaster-prone areas contribute to the  community’s ability to prepare for and recover from disasters. Investing in Community Disaster Resilience: Since FY2023, the Walmart Foundation  has invested $5.7 million to help communities—particularly underserved areas less  prepared for weather-related disasters—build their response capacities. Foundation"
"grants have included: •      Equipping community leaders with the insights, education, and tools to help survivors  access disaster assistance (for example a FY2025 Walmart Foundation grant to American  Logistics Aid Network, National Low-Income Housing Coalition, and Tulane University) •    Helping local leaders and institutions strengthen the resilience of their most vulnerable  communities. For example, an SBP fellow in Texas, funded by the Walmart Foundation,  helped the Bolivar Peninsula"
"Special Utility District receive a $3.3 million hazard  mitigation grant to replace aging water infrastructure and ensure resilient utility services  pre- and post-disaster. Preparing Stores and Clubs to Support Communities: While each disaster and each  community is unique, Walmart takes action to prepare our local store and club operators  to be ready to meet community needs in a broad range of disasters. Walmart’s Disaster  Response (Guide) provides operators with foundational information"
"about Walmart’s  community disaster support resources, including donating products and gift cards to  nonprofits involved in recovery efforts, parking lot activations, and customer and associate  giving campaigns. The Guide also provides best practices for store and club operators  to foster relationships with local emergency managers, public officials, and community  nonprofits ahead of any disaster, ensuring that our operators already have lines of  communication open with these organizations."
"Providing Disaster Relief: Depending on the severity of the disaster, we coordinate with  others to provide essential products and services to the communities we serve. Because each disaster is unique, our Walmart, Walmart Foundation, and emergency  management teams coordinate with response organizations on the ground and relay real- time information back to our GSOC regarding the local situation and needs. We use this  information to determine the level and nature of support needed, which"
"varies by situation  and may include any of the following: •  Product donations, such as food and water and/or flexible-use Walmart gift cards to  local nonprofits to enable them to immediately procure critical supplies •         Parking lot activities to provide basics like hot meals, warm water, showers, laundry  facilities, Wi-Fi connections, and/or the ability to charge phones •     Major grants to relief organizations and community foundations. In FY2025, Walmart.org provided  $24.3 million"
"in global cash and in-kind  donations for disaster recovery and  preparedness globally. FY2025 ESG Report  73  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Serving Communities Safer, Healthier Products Disaster Preparedness and Response Responding to Hurricanes Helene and Milton Hurricane Helene and Hurricane Milton hit within two weeks of each other in fall  2024, both making landfall in Florida. Helene caused widespread flooding and  damage in hundreds of"
"communities in Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina,  Virginia, and Tennessee. Walmart, Sam’s Club, and the Walmart Foundation  committed $16 million to support relief efforts across communities impacted  by both hurricanes. This support included donations of 178 truckloads of  food, water, and essential items, as well as nearly $10 million in grants to relief  organizations. For several weeks, Walmart and Sam’s Club parking lots across  impacted communities provided access charging stations,"
"laundry, showers  and hot meals. Operation BBQ Relief and Walmart Private Fleet drivers served a  total of more than 544,000 meals from Walmart parking lots. We also launched  a customer matching campaign in Walmart and Sam’s Club locations across the  country, which raised more than $14.5 million for the American Red Cross. To learn more about our response, please see Disaster Preparedness and  Response in Action. For more examples of Walmart’s response and recovery  efforts, see disaster"
"recovery timeline. Challenges •       While we use available data to prepare for and anticipate severe weather and other  disruptions, these events are inherently unpredictable. These may include extreme  weather-related events such as hurricanes, tropical storms, typhoons, floods, wildfires,  cyclones, tornadoes, winter storms, droughts, and extreme temperatures, any of which  may be exacerbated by a changing climate. •      Stakeholders and communities have more needs than Walmart can meet"
"alone,  creating the need to focus on our core capabilities and collaborate to amplify impact. •     We depend on the engagement of associates, suppliers, and customers to successfully  recover from disasters and disruptions. •  Disasters disproportionately impact underserved communities, often the least able to  recover financially. FY2025 ESG Report  74  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Ethics & Integrity Walmart works to create a culture that"
"inspires  trust with our stakeholders. We focus on  promoting ethics and compliance, good  governance and oversight, responsibly  engaging in public policy activities, using data  and technology responsibly, and respecting  human rights in operations and for the people  in our supply chain. In This Section 76        Corporate Governance 80        Ethics and Compliance 87       Responsible Use of Data and Technology 90       Human Rights 96         Responsible Engagement in Public Policy 97%"
"97% of assigned associates  completed Code of Conduct training  13,300 13,300 third-party responsible sourcing  facility audit reports assessed 68,400 68,400 food safety audits  completed in stores and clubs 75% 75% of the Board of Directors  members are Independent FY2025 ESG Report  75  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Corporate Governance Ethics and Compliance Responsible Use of Data and Technology Human Rights Responsible Engagement in Public"
"Policy Corporate Governance Our Aspiration We aim to create an environment of accountability,  transparency, and trust in our business, fostering  business integrity, financial stability, and responsible  and long-term growth. Relevance to Our Business and Society Strong corporate governance practices foster resilience,  risk mitigation, long-term growth, and trust. We also  believe our corporate governance practices exemplify  our values, help us deliver quality service and results,"
"and cultivate lasting shareholder value. Our Approach Board of Directors: Maintaining a majority independent  Board with distinguished leadership, a broad range  of backgrounds and perspectives, and professional  experience relevant to our business and strategic objectives. Board and Management Roles and Responsibilities:  Oversight of strategy, risks, and opportunities. ESG and Shared Value Oversight and Management:  Board committee oversight of matters relevant to shared  value, including"
"Walmart’s priority ESG issues. See our most recent Proxy Statement for more  information. FY2025 ESG Report  76  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Corporate Governance Ethics and Compliance Responsible Use of Data and Technology Human Rights Responsible Engagement in Public Policy Board Overview Walmart’s Board oversees the company’s business strategy and strategic planning  and monitors the company’s management of significant risks. We believe the"
"Board’s  oversight, along with management’s execution of our business strategy, helps promote  shared value; namely, the creation of long-term shareholder value by effectively  responding to opportunities and risks arising from stakeholder needs, including  customers, associates, suppliers, policymakers, and communities. The Board has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines to assist the Board in  effective exercise of its responsibilities including: •        Annual review of Board leadership"
"structure •   Majority independent Board •    Separate Chair and CEO roles since 1988 •       Lead Independent Director role since 2004 •     Governance-related Board committees chaired by independent directors57 •        Board obligation to follow Walmart’s Code of Conduct when they are acting in  their capacity as Board members •         Incorporation of an overboarding policy to help ensure our Board members  have adequate time and attention to devote to our business. Our Board members"
"possess a balance of distinguished leadership, diverse  perspectives, strategic skill sets, and professional experience relevant to our  business and strategic objectives. Board Characteristics58 Demographics •      57 years average and median age •       25% women •     17% racially/ethnically diverse Tenure •        8 years median tenure •         12-year term limit for Independent Directors, subject to  exceptions by the Board •     6 new Independent members since 2017 Highly Engaged  Board •"
"Actively involved in Walmart’s strategy •       99% overall attendance rate at Board and Board committee  meetings during FY2025 •      5 Board and 24 Board committee meetings during FY2025 Independence •    9 of 12 members are Independent, and 11 of 12 members  are non-management •     All members of the Audit Committee, CMDC, and NGC  are Independent •    Robust Lead Independent Director role Experience and  Skills Relevant to the  Successful Oversight  of Our Strategy •   Retail experience •"
"Technology or eCommerce experience •    Global or international business experience •   Marketing or brand management experience Experience and Skills  Relevant to Effective  Oversight and  Governance •      Senior leadership experience •  Regulatory, legal, or risk management experience •      Finance, accounting, or financial reporting experience 57      The three committees that are considered governance committees are the Audit Committee, Nominating and Governance Committee (NGC), and the"
"Compensation and Management Development Committee (CMDC). The Strategic Planning and Finance Committee, although not considered a governance-related committee, is also chaired by an Independent Director. 58       Metrics on our Board of Directors are current as of time of publication. FY2025 ESG Report  77  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Corporate Governance Ethics and Compliance Responsible Use of Data and Technology Human Rights Responsible"
"Engagement in Public Policy Board and Management Roles  and Responsibilities Walmart continues to grow and transform its business as a people-led, tech-powered  omnichannel retailer. Management defines the strategy and risk management  principles for this transformation, while the Board and its committees oversee and  guide management. The Board and the Board committees also actively oversee and monitor the  management of the most significant risks that could impact our company. The Board,"
"Board committees, and management coordinate risk oversight and management  responsibilities in a manner that we believe serves the long-term interests of our  company and our shareholders through established periodic reporting and open  lines of communication. Board Oversight of Risk Technology and  eCommerce Committee Oversees risks associated with: • Integration of information technology,  eCommerce, and innovation efforts with  overall strategy • Emerging trends in technology and eCommerce"
"Strategic Planning and  Finance Committee Oversees risks associated with: • Financial status and financial matters,  including capital expenditures, annual  financial plans, and dividend policies • Long-range strategic plans • Potential acquisitions and divestitures Compensation and  Management Development  Committee Oversees risks associated with: • Senior executive compensation • Senior executive development, succession  planning, and retention • Human capital management, including pay,"
"benefits, belonging, recruiting and retention,  and culture Nominating and  Governance Committee Oversees risks associated with: • Corporate governance • Director succession planning • Social, community, and sustainability initiatives,  including those related to climate change • Charitable giving strategy • Legislative affairs and public policy  engagement strategy Audit Committee • Responsible for oversight of overall risk  identification, monitoring, and mitigation  processes and policies,"
"including the  enterprise risk management process • Reviews and assesses the company’s risk  disclosures included in the company’s  quarterly and annual reports filed with  the SEC Oversees risks associated with: • Financial statements, systems,  and reporting • Legal, including significant litigation  matters, ethics, and compliance • Information systems, information  security, data privacy, and cybersecurity • Related person transactions • Internal investigatory matters FY2025 ESG Report  78"
"INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Corporate Governance Ethics and Compliance Responsible Use of Data and Technology Human Rights Responsible Engagement in Public Policy ESG and Shared Value Oversight  and Management Leadership of our ESG and shared value initiatives starts with our CEO and executive  leadership, with oversight from our Board committees, and cascades across our  enterprise. Walmart’s CSO helps define the agenda and provides dedicated"
"management  and oversight of Walmart’s global ESG goals and initiatives through a team led by the  Vice President, ESG. •      Walmart’s ESG Disclosure Committee—a management subcommittee of the  company’s Disclosure Committee—oversees the preparation of annual ESG  reports and ESG information for public disclosure and maintains information  governance standards related to the production of ESG reports and information. Its  members include officers from the company’s Corporate Affairs, Investor"
"Relations,  Controllership, Legal, and Audit functions, and is chaired by our CSO. •       Walmart’s Executive Council receives regular updates from the CSO on the company’s  strategies and performance related to our shared value priorities. •        The CSO updates and receives feedback from Walmart’s Board on the company’s  shared value strategies and performance at least annually. During FY2025,  management, including our CSO, discussed with the NGC external trends and  regulatory activity"
"related to our shared value initiatives; Walmart’s ESG governance,  including ESG disclosure controls and procedures; and Walmart’s performance on key  metrics. The Chair of the NGC provides a report of its discussions to the full Board. •  Risks, including those related to our shared value priorities, are assessed annually as  part of Walmart’s ERM program, and ERM outputs are discussed with the Governance  Risk Committee. The Board’s Audit Committee oversees overall risk identification,"
"monitoring, and mitigation processes, and the results of the annual ERM process are  shared with the Audit Committee. Additionally, Board committees have oversight  responsibility for certain shared value priority issues. Committee meetings in FY2025  included the following shared value topics: ESG Priorities and Management Compensation Performance on priority Walmart ESG issues is integrated into the annual performance  objectives of relevant officers’ roles. Certain officers have also built"
"ESG objectives  into their individual goals and objectives, which form part of the basis on which their  performance is evaluated. For example, certain People team leaders have goals and  objectives centered on executing our human capital and associate opportunity strategies;  certain Operations leaders have goals and objectives relating to energy transformation;  and certain Merchandising and Sourcing leaders have goals and objectives relating to  sustainable sourcing and packaging. ESG Issues"
"Overseen ESG Discussion Topics Audit Committee •    Ethics and compliance •         Cybersecurity and data privacy •        Ethics and Compliance program •         Data privacy •  Cybersecurity and associated risks Compensation  and Management  Development  Committee •       Human capital management strategies, including: •       Associate well-being, growth, and digital transformation •      Workforce development, training, and education •        Compensation and benefits •     Belonging •"
"Compensation and benefits strategies and plans, including continued investments in  wages, benefits, and skills training •      Senior leadership development and succession planning •         Culture and belonging Nominating and  Governance  Committee •   Social, community, and sustainability initiatives, including  climate change •  Charitable giving strategy •    Legislative affairs and public policy engagement strategy •     Goals and strategies for Walmart’s priority ESG issues, including"
"human capital, belonging,  climate resilience, waste and circularity, nature, human rights, responsible sourcing, and  ethics and compliance •        Government affairs and policy priorities and engagement, political action committee  strategies and activities •        Walmart charitable giving •     Stakeholder engagement Challenges •     Walmart must find directors with a strategic blend of skills, experiences, and expertise  to provide effective oversight and serve as a strategic resource to"
"management. Many  other companies are seeking similar board candidates and executives. •  Walmart’s business is evolving rapidly, and oversight and management responsibility  must evolve with Walmart’s omnichannel transformation. Moreover, major global  events can disrupt our business operations, requiring rapid adjustments to business  strategies. The Board and management must collaborate closely to navigate  these challenges. •         Shareholders express divergent views on certain corporate"
"governance practices,  including Board independence, demographics, term limits, committee structures, and  executive compensation. FY2025 ESG Report  79  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Corporate Governance Ethics and Compliance Responsible Use of Data and Technology Human Rights Responsible Engagement in Public Policy Ethics and Compliance Our Aspiration Walmart strives to make trust a competitive advantage.  Modeling the highest standards of ethics"
"and compliance  helps us maintain a culture of integrity, which builds trust in  our business. Relevance to Our Business and Society Businesses with high ethics and compliance standards  ground their decisions in those standards, acting swiftly  to identify and address issues to mitigate risk and cultivate  trust. We believe trust is a competitive advantage—a  reason associates, customers, investors, suppliers, and  business partners choose to do business with Walmart. At  every level of our"
"company, we work to create a culture that  inspires trust among the communities we serve. Our Approach Ethics and Compliance Program Foundations: Promoting  a corporate culture of integrity, creating the building  blocks for an effective program, and fostering continuous  improvement. Walmart Code of Conduct and Standards for Suppliers:  Defining our values, principles, and expected behaviors— including legal compliance, ethics training, and accountability— for all Walmart associates and"
"extending these expectations  to business partners and their supply chains. Effective Compliance Programs: Building trust through  compliance programs that reflect the size, complexity, and  unique aspects of our business, including anti-corruption,  antitrust, worker health and safety, prevention of discrimination  and harassment, and food and product safety. FY2025 ESG Report  80  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Corporate Governance Ethics and"
"Compliance Responsible Use of Data and Technology Human Rights Responsible Engagement in Public Policy Ethics and Compliance Program  Foundations Walmart’s ethics and compliance program is risk-based and tailored to address the  needs of our global business. We design our program around a set of foundations,  informed by the U.S. Department of Justice’s Evaluation of Corporate Compliance  Programs framework, that enables consistency while being able to adapt to changes  in our business and"
"external environment. Corporate Culture Management sets the tone for our ethics and compliance program. Our commitment to  integrity is embedded in all business operations and performance expectations. We conduct regular assessments using our AES and other feedback channels to assess  our culture of integrity and identify opportunities to improve. In 2024, the AES measured  the favorability of associate responses in six areas: •    I know how to report unethical behavior. •      My direct"
"supervisor has communicated to me expectations around working the right  way and complying with laws and company policy. •    My direct supervisor acts ethically and honestly. •     I can get my work done without feeling pressure to compromise the organization’s  ethical or compliance standards. •    I am comfortable reporting unethical behavior without fear of retaliation. •    The company responds to issues or concerns involving unethical behavior raised  by associates. Results from the AES"
"are shared with leaders across our company and, as needed, they  work to develop action plans to address areas for improvement. Compliance Leadership and Personnel Our effectiveness depends on having an adequately resourced team of experienced  ethics and compliance leaders with appropriate authority and autonomy and direct  access to our Board and executive leadership. Walmart’s Global Chief Ethics and  Compliance Officer (CECO) oversees the overall ethics and compliance program. The  CECO"
"reports to our Chief Legal Officer (CLO) who oversees our Global Governance  organization. This organization includes thousands of associates, including subject  matter experts, investigators, compliance and risk assessment professionals, legal  counsel, security specialists, and data analysts, among others, who support business  teams and promote ethics and compliance practices across the company. Governance leaders in each Walmart market are charged with designing and executing  their"
"compliance programs consistent with our program foundations and ensuring  the overall program is operating efficiently and effectively. We also maintain ethics and  compliance committees in our international retail markets that meet regularly to discuss  issues related to ethics, compliance, and other enterprise-level risks. The Audit Committee of Walmart’s Board plays a critical and active role in overseeing the  company’s ethics and compliance program. The CECO reports to the Audit Committee"
"at least annually on ethics and compliance matters and is independently empowered to  request additional time with the Audit Committee to discuss ethics and compliance issues.  As part of its oversight, the Audit Committee periodically holds private conversations with  the CECO for candid discussion of ethics and compliance matters. Walmart’s Governance Risk Committee comprises leaders including our CEO, CLO, and  other members of executive management. This committee meets at least quarterly to"
"discuss significant or strategic ethics and compliance matters, enterprise-level risk, and  current issues. Integrity in Action The Integrity in Action Award is Walmart’s global recognition program that  celebrates associates who exemplify our values and champion a culture  of integrity every day. Associates in each of our global markets are invited  to nominate colleagues, and Walmart recognizes winners at our annual  Associates Week events. Regular Risk Identification and Analysis We"
"continually review and assess our compliance-related risks. Among the areas that we  analyze are: •         Walmart’s evolving business activities, including new business ventures and  acquisitions, our interactions with third parties, and organizational changes within  our company •        Trends in emerging risk areas, including relevant enforcement authorities and  industry groups •        Our own ethics and compliance data and emerging trends from recent investigations. Policies, Procedures,"
"and Controls We provide clear, written policies outlining our business expectations, detailed in our  Code of Conduct, topic-specific policies, and documented procedures. We design  risk-based controls to ensure compliance. Regular risk reviews, including monitoring  regulatory changes and control tests, confirm our policies cover relevant risks and are  effective. We periodically update guidance to assist our associates and third parties in  making appropriate decisions. Training and Awareness"
"Timely and effective training is essential for educating associates on our behavioral  expectations, key policies and procedures, and controls. Walmart conducts regular  ethics and compliance training for all levels, from frontline store associates to senior  leaders, and provides periodic ethics and compliance briefings and education for  the Board. Our training and awareness campaigns help ensure participants receive  the right information at the right time through tailored training to"
"specific audiences,  proven educational methodologies, tracking completion, and evaluating participant  comprehension. Internal Monitoring and Testing We regularly monitor and test our controls to help ensure that our program is well‑designed  and operates effectively. Risk analysis, coupled with the monitoring and regular evaluation  of key program elements and metrics, allows us to identify potential areas of concern  and effectiveness. This forms the basis for further enhancements and"
"continuous  improvement. We use internal audit processes and external reviews from expert resources  to test and refine our program’s design, execution, and effectiveness. FY2025 ESG Report  81  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Corporate Governance Ethics and Compliance Responsible Use of Data and Technology Human Rights Responsible Engagement in Public Policy Confidential Reporting We maintain reporting channels that allow for anonymous and"
"confidential reporting of  concerns from Walmart associates and third parties, including workers in our supply chain: •       Global and local phone numbers that anyone can use to ask questions and report  concerns 24/7/365. The helpline is available in 29 languages •  The WalmartEthics.com website, which is globally accessible and available in  11 languages •    An email address, ethics@walmart.com •  A mailing address •     An internal employee portal for U.S. associates, myFeedback."
"Investigation and Remediation Prompt fact-finding, root cause analysis, and corrective action planning are central to our  program’s effectiveness. When we substantiate a violation of our ethics and compliance  expectations, we remediate the underlying issues, including through appropriate  accountability for culpable associates and third parties, and needed adjustments in  processes and controls. Ethics contacts received through confidential reporting channels are assessed based  on subject"
"matter, risk to the company, and severity of the allegation. Depending on the  case, it may be investigated by our Global Investigations team or another investigative  unit, escalated to our Legal Investigations team for appropriate handling or referred to  business units for further action. Continuous Improvement Walmart’s Global Governance team works to improve and adapt our ethics and  compliance program to mitigate new and evolving risks, including partnering with other  stakeholders to"
"design and integrate compliance into new business initiatives and  acquisitions. Through program reviews, benchmarking, and the incorporation of lessons  learned, we assess and adjust our program to help ensure continued effectiveness. Walmart Code of Conduct and  Standards for Suppliers Walmart’s Code of Conduct serves as our internal policy and external statement of  our values, principles, and expected behaviors. The Code applies to all associates of  Walmart and its subsidiaries, and to"
"Walmart’s and its subsidiaries’ Board members, unless  otherwise noted, when they are acting in their capacity as Directors. The Code is reviewed  and updated periodically, with the latest update in 2023. The Code makes clear that all Walmart associates are responsible for upholding  our standards and complying with all relevant laws and regulations, and explains the  consequences for failing to abide by the Code.59  To complement and supplement  the Code, Walmart maintains, and regularly"
"updates, issue-specific ethics and  compliance policies. Walmart associates receive training on the Code during onboarding and regularly  thereafter. All required Code of Conduct courses include an acknowledgment that  associates must complete before finishing their training. Our Code of Conduct training  was completed by more than 97% of associates who were assigned in FY2025.60 We also expect our suppliers, vendors, service providers, and other business partners to  act with integrity and"
"honor our values. Walmart’s Standards for Suppliers set forth our  foundational expectations and apply to all suppliers that sell their products to us for resale  or for Walmart’s own use. Suppliers are expected to cascade the requirements outlined  in our Standards throughout their supply chains­—including raw materials, component or  ingredient suppliers, and subcontractors and agents. Effective Compliance Programs Walmart’s risk-based compliance programs cover a broad range of business"
"activities  and issue areas. Several of these programs are detailed within this section. Prevention of Harassment and Discrimination Walmart is dedicated to a workplace that is free of harassment and discrimination. We  do not tolerate any behavior that creates an intimidating, hostile, or otherwise offensive  work environment based on an individual’s protected status. We also do not tolerate  retaliation against anyone who raises a concern about harassment or discrimination.  These expectations"
"are set out in our Code of Conduct and in our Global Discrimination  and Harassment Prevention Policy. Walmart’s approach is globally standardized and requires all salaried members of  management to report suspected violations of our policies.59 Walmart’s annual Code of Conduct training covers discrimination and harassment  prevention. Additional training on these topics, including sexual harassment, is provided  to U.S.-based associates. In other markets, tailored training modules, leadership"
"messages,  and informational campaigns are used to raise awareness and help prevent harassment  and discrimination. 59       Associates may face discipline up to and including termination for a substantiated violation of our Code of Conduct or our ethics and compliance program policies. Other remedial actions may include reduction of associates’ annual cash incentive payment or additional assigned training or counseling. 60  Completion rate includes active associates as of the end of FY2025."
"FY2025 ESG Report  82  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Corporate Governance Ethics and Compliance Responsible Use of Data and Technology Human Rights Responsible Engagement in Public Policy Creating a Safe Place to Work and Shop We prioritize the health and safety of our associates and customers as a business  imperative and a reflection of our core values of respecting the individual and acting  with integrity. Walmart’s Global Environmental,"
"Health, and Safety Policy (EHS Policy)  establishes a standard that is intended to ensure we protect human health and comply  with all EHS laws and regulations. Violations of our EHS Policy may lead to disciplinary  action up to and including termination. Additional detail on Walmart’s commitments  and expectations for associates can be found in our Environmental, Health, and  Safety Statement. Walmart employs a team of safety professionals who are responsible for developing and  implementing"
"safety initiatives for the different operational formats within the company.  They focus on training, promoting a culture of safety compliance, and monitoring safety  practices and compliance. We also contract with an independent third party to conduct  assessments of our U.S. stores and clubs and to monitor the execution of specific  elements of our EHS program (32,700 visits were conducted in 2024). Training is a key component of our program. In the U.S., new-to-role store and club  associates"
"are required to complete our safety foundations curriculum as well as tailored  training that addresses the particular risks within their area. In FY2025, more than 97% of  U.S. store and club associates timely completed their assigned safety training curricula.61  Additionally, associates can also access microlearning courses on safety topics, which are  available on-demand and provide in-the-moment information in an easily digestible format. Managers and hourly supervisors are required to"
"complete specialized training designed  to help them support associates within facilities and maintain a strong safety culture. To help ensure a safe working environment for associates, we document and analyze  associate incident and injury data. Our most common recordable incident types in the U.S.  in FY2025 were: •         Fall/slip/trip •        Material handling •     Struck by object •      Caught in, under, between object •      Cut/puncture/scrape. The U.S. Occupational Safety and Health"
"Administration (OSHA) Total Recordable Incident  Rate (TRIR) and Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) are calculations that describe the frequency of  incidents per 100 full-time employees per year. The TRIR is based on all incidents that resulted  in medical treatment beyond first aid; the LTIR includes only incidents that resulted in at least  one lost workday. Our most recent reported data to OSHA demonstrates that our distribution  and fulfillment safety record is well below industry average and"
"that our store and club safety  record is comparable with the industry average. Our significantly lower LTIR compared to TRIR  indicates that the majority of our recorded incidents were minor in nature.62  Consistent with our Ethics & Compliance program foundations, Walmart aims for  continuous improvement in our Enterprise Safety program, and we use the data from  our incident and injury monitoring to develop new targeted trainings, as well as new or  enhanced safety policies, procedures, and"
"practices designed to reduce workplace illness  and injury. 61       Completion rate includes active associates as of the end of FY2025. 62 Data represents U.S. numbers. Rates subject to adjustments as claims are conciliated and resolved. Industry data for Retail charts is based on NAICS 452311—Warehouse clubs and supercenters. Industry data for Supply Chain charts is based on NAICS 49311—General warehousing and storage. Industry data have a one-year lag time and therefore do not appear in this"
"chart for 2024.  See https://www.bls.gov/web/osh/table-1-industry-rates-national.htm. 0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 7.0 CY2024 CY2023 CY2022 CY2021 CY2020 Walmart U.S. TRIR Sam’s Club TRIR Industry TRIR 5.6 5.6 6.2 6.2 5.8 6.0 5.6 5.4 5.7 5.8 Retail TRIR Retail Operations 0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 7.0 CY2024 CY2023 CY2022 CY2021 CY2020 1.5 1.4 1.8 1.5 1.4 1.4 1.3 1.2 1.3 1.3 Walmart U.S. LTIR Sam’s Club LTIR Industry LTIR Retail LTIR Retail Operations 3.0 4.1 3.0 2.2 2.5 Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club"
"U.S. TRIR Industry TRIR 0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 7.0 CY2024 CY2023 CY2022 CY2021 CY2020 Supply Chain TRIR Warehousing and Storage (Fulfillment and Distribution Center) Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club U.S. LTIR Industry LTIR 1.0 1.5 0.9 0.7 0.7 CY2024 CY2023 CY2022 CY2021 CY2020 0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 7.0 Supply Chain LTIR  Warehousing and Storage (Fulfillment and Distribution Center) FY2025 ESG Report  83  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Corporate"
"Governance Ethics and Compliance Responsible Use of Data and Technology Human Rights Responsible Engagement in Public Policy Combating Bribery and Corruption Walmart competes fairly and honestly in the places we do business around the world. Both  our Code of Conduct and Global Anti-Corruption Policy (A/C Policy) prohibit bribery in any  form by Walmart associates and third-party intermediaries (TPIs) acting on Walmart’s behalf.  Our Standards for Suppliers require the same of Walmart’s product"
"suppliers. Walmart dedicates significant resources to our Anti-Corruption Compliance Program,  including: •    Appointing a Global Anti-Corruption Officer to provide strategic oversight and support to  specialized Anti-Corruption Compliance teams in every Walmart market •       Conducting annual Anti-Corruption Compliance Program risk assessments, internal  monitoring and testing, and TPI audits •       Designing system enhancements to globally manage corruption risks, as well as  implementing"
"our Anti-Corruption Compliance Program with acquired entities •     Screening our TPIs to identify corruption risks and ensure we are doing business with  partners who follow our core values when representing us •       Training associates to identify corruption risks in our activities and to report suspected  violations of our A/C Policy and procedures. Training assignments and cadence are  customized based on role, tenure, and knowledge proficiency, with targeted anti- corruption training for"
"associates more likely to encounter corruption risk touchpoints.  Additionally, we deliver risk-based training to TPIs, clearly outlining their obligation to report  suspected violations of our A/C Policy and the proper channels for seeking guidance. Competing Fairly Walmart is committed to free and fair competition, which helps enable lower prices,  maximize consumer choice, and promote innovation. Our Global Antitrust and Competition Law Policy applies across all of Walmart’s  businesses. The"
"Policy requires (among other things) that Walmart compete  independently, protect competitively sensitive information, and work with suppliers  and other parties in a manner that does not harm competition or consumers. Walmart’s Antitrust Center of Expertise (COE) is responsible for advising the company  with respect to antitrust matters and for the development and implementation of a  strong Global Antitrust Compliance Program. The program is led by a team of global  and jurisdiction-specific"
"specialists who identify market-based risks and design  comprehensive training, as well as potential controls and monitoring to mitigate relevant  risks. The COE works in close partnership with teams across Walmart to ensure that  compliance controls, training, and awareness are embedded throughout the company  and that the program is continually informed by relevant developments and evolving  business activities. Walmart trains associates on antitrust topics through our Code of Conduct."
"Associates  in higher-risk business segments receive additional detailed computer-based antitrust  trainings, and members of the highest-risk teams (e.g., merchandising, marketplace, and  sourcing) receive live trainings conducted by members of the COE. FY2025 ESG Report  84  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Corporate Governance Ethics and Compliance Responsible Use of Data and Technology Human Rights Responsible Engagement in Public Policy Food"
"Safety Walmart is dedicated to providing safe, quality food to customers. Our Global Food Safety  program is designed to ensure compliance with applicable regulatory requirements  and our science-based food safety standards. Our Global Food Safety and Compliance  organization, which includes food safety professionals and scientists, designs and  implements the program across our retail operations, fresh food manufacturing facilities,  and supply chain. Policies and Standards: Our program"
"includes policies, standards, procedures, and  controls designed to mitigate food safety risks and drive a culture of continuous  improvement. •        Our Code of Conduct and Global Food Safety Policy require associates to follow  role‑specific food safety requirements. •       Our Standards for Suppliers requires suppliers to implement measures to ensure  the food they provide is safe and meets all quality and regulatory requirements; it also  sets the expectation that suppliers and sellers"
"report any safety issues to Walmart  immediately and initiate voluntary and mandatory product recalls where appropriate. In the U.S., Walmart publishes a customer- facing Food Safety page that describes  Walmart’s food safety programs and  provides tips that customers can use to  keep their food safe and fresh. Food Safety in Walmart’s Operations Walmart’s global food safety program emphasizes effective food safety controls and  monitoring across the value chain, from farm to table. It is based"
"on Good Hygiene  Practices and Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) principles. Suppliers •        Walmart relies on suppliers to provide most of the food it sells, including national  and private brands. Suppliers are required to follow applicable food safety laws and  regulations. For private brand products and Walmart-imported products,63 we require  Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) certification. •         Walmart has implemented risk-based programs to supplement GFSI."
"For example,  in the U.S., suppliers of raw ground beef and bison must disclose information about  processing facilities and reducing pathogens through approved intervention  processes. Suppliers of raw whole-bird chicken, raw chicken parts, and raw ground  turkey products must comply with safety initiatives to reduce salmonella transmission. Walmart-Owned Manufacturing Facilities •       In a few circumstances, Walmart owns and operates facilities that manufacture food  products: as of FYE2025,"
"Walmart operated 13 of these across seven countries. We also  utilize the GFSI certification process for these facilities, which requires them to show  that they have implemented food safety management systems to identify and control  potential hazards in the production process. To date, 12 of our facilities have achieved  this certification, and the company remains committed to certifying all of them. Distribution Centers, Fulfillment Centers, and Transportation •      Where we operate"
"distribution centers, fulfillment centers, and owned transportation  channels, food safety controls include cleaning and sanitation, pest management,  temperature monitoring, and cross-contamination prevention. Compliance with our  internal standards and relevant regulations is measured through GFSI certification or  other third-party audits. Retail •      Our retail programs follow the Food Safety High Five framework, which addresses key  retail food safety risk factors. Effective controls in"
"these five areas help mitigate the risk  of food safety incidents from retail food handling practices. •    Independent third parties conduct risk-based audits to verify that our retail facilities  meet legal requirements and Walmart standards. In recent years, we enhanced our  retail audit approach by improving and strengthening aspects related to sanitation,  hazard analysis, and risk-based preventive controls. In FY2025, 68,400 such audits  were completed. •   Additionally, we conducted more"
"than 200 million food safety assessments  (e.g., checking whether associates are following the cleaning process for food  contact surfaces or whether associates are following hand washing procedures)  using a paperless automated record-keeping tool that enables faster and more  comprehensive assessments at scale. 63  Suppliers of other national brand products are responsible for complying with the law and all relevant standards, but Walmart does not actively monitor their compliance. FY2025 ESG"
"Report  85  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Corporate Governance Ethics and Compliance Responsible Use of Data and Technology Human Rights Responsible Engagement in Public Policy Product Safety Walmart is committed to providing our customers with access to safe, compliant, and  more affordable merchandise, as well as promoting the safe use of products. Walmart  maintains a risk-based Product Safety Compliance Program to assist Walmart associates in"
"complying with federal, state, and local product safety laws, requirements, and company  policies. Our product safety compliance teams implement appropriate standards and  procedures intended to further mitigate risk across our business, in accordance with local  laws and policy. Product Safety Policies and Standards: Our Code of Conduct and Global Product Safety  Compliance Policy set high expectations for our associates regarding product safety.  Associates are required to follow role-specific"
"practices relevant to product safety; for  example, merchandising associates help Walmart source safe products and respond  to potential safety issues. The Product Safety Compliance Program includes training  requirements tailored for merchandising teams, among others. We reinforce these expectations with our suppliers through our Standards for Suppliers  and with our sellers through our Marketplace Prohibited Products Policy. Suppliers and  sellers must ensure the products they provide to us"
"are safe, meet all regulatory, quality,  and technical requirements, and conduct product recalls where appropriate. Holding Our Suppliers to High Product Safety Standards: In the U.S., we expect  our general merchandise suppliers to send their items to approved third-party testing  laboratories so the items can be independently tested for compliance with all applicable  laws, regulations, and standards. In addition to regulatory safety standards, Walmart has  adopted certain industry consensus"
"safety standards and utilizes a formal risk-based  process to assess products for compliance with those standards. When an item is deemed non-compliant, we alert the supplier so they can correct the  issue and remove the item from sale, and we prohibit purchase in stores and online, when  appropriate. We also participate in the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission’s (CPSC)  Retailer Reporting Program and voluntarily provide CPSC with product incident data so that  it can take better-informed"
"actions to keep consumers safe. For products that have already been purchased by customers, Walmart’s Product  Safety Compliance Program includes a formal product recall process. This process,  where necessary, supports efficient and effective product recalls, customer awareness  communications, and the perpetual collection of recalled products to remove potentially  unsafe products from consumer use at any time after a recall is announced. Challenges •         Laws and regulations differ"
"substantially across the countries where Walmart operates,  and they are constantly evolving. This dynamic creates challenges for implementing  comprehensive and global programs. See our most recent annual report on Form 10-K  for more information on these factors. •         As Walmart’s business expands into new areas, we face new and unique ethics and  compliance challenges, adding more complexity to our overall program framework. •      The success of our ethics and compliance programs"
"depends, in part, on the  engagement, participation, and cooperation of millions of our associates, suppliers,  and other business partners. FY2025 ESG Report  86  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Corporate Governance Ethics and Compliance Responsible Use of Data and Technology Human Rights Responsible Engagement in Public Policy Responsible Use of Data and Technology Our Aspiration We seek to build and maintain the trust of customers,  associates,"
"suppliers, communities, and other stakeholders  with respect to our use of technology and data, in line with  our values of service, excellence, integrity, and respecting  the individual. Relevance to Our Business and Society As an omnichannel retailer, Walmart’s business depends  on data and technology to deliver excellent customer  service and optimize the way our associates work.  Customers, associates, and other stakeholders need to  trust that we’ll use data and technology responsibly and"
"in a manner consistent with our values. Our Approach Governance: Empowering appropriate oversight of our  data and technology through accountable management.  Digital trust: Shaping decisions regarding new  technologies, services, and data use to align with our  Digital Trust Commitments. Protecting privacy: Safeguarding the use of customer  and associate information to protect confidentiality and  maintain trust. Cybersecurity: Protecting our information and  digital infrastructure. FY2025 ESG"
"Report  87  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Corporate Governance Ethics and Compliance Responsible Use of Data and Technology Human Rights Responsible Engagement in Public Policy Governance Walmart’s Board has delegated risk management oversight responsibility for information  systems, information security, data privacy, and cybersecurity to its Audit Committee For  further discussion of the Audit Committee’s oversight role, see Walmart’s 2025 annual"
"report on Form 10-K. Walmart management teams, which include associates with expertise in digital values,  emerging technology, cybersecurity, data privacy and governance, ethical AI and  biometrics, and information management, help Walmart live up to our Digital Trust  Commitments as we develop and implement emerging technologies, new services, and  innovative ways to serve our customers. They also track relevant laws and regulations and  oversee Walmart’s privacy policies and notices. Our"
"Chief Information Security Officer (who reports to the Chief Technology Officer)  leads Walmart’s Information Security organization and oversees Walmart’s cybersecurity  program, which is supported by dedicated teams of cybersecurity personnel and  professionals that assess, identify, monitor, detect, and manage cybersecurity risks,  threats, vulnerabilities, and incidents. These teams provide recurring information security and data privacy training to our  associates and certain third parties"
"based on access, risk, roles, policies, standards, and  behaviors. In FY2025, for example, 1.3 million U.S. associates completed training covering  information security and digital citizenship. Digital Trust Walmart’s Digital Trust Commitments help guide our use of technology and data in line  with our values, so that we continually build trust while enhancing the customer and  associate experience. We put these commitments into action through practices including: Global Design With Local"
"Deployment: We aspire to deploy technologies and data  practices that are scalable, flexible, and tailored to local needs and requirements.  For example, we have adopted policies that guide our company in the design,  implementation, and security of AI solutions, machine learning, and automated  decisioning systems. Usability: We seek to ensure our technology is intuitive and accessible, emphasizing  customer and associate choice. We launched a number of AI-powered customer solutions,  including"
"a more personalized version of our AI-powered Customer Support Assistant,  designed to create more convenient and engaging shopping experiences. Decreasing Bias and Increasing Transparency: We aim to design systems where the  outcomes produced by the technology are fair and transparent. We have developed  frameworks to evaluate AI and machine learning models, aimed at mitigating risks such as  unfair outcomes, lack of transparency, privacy concerns, and model robustness. Serving Our Associates:"
"We empower our associates through AI tools that enhance their  productivity, efficiency, and overall experience at work. Read more in the Our People: Associate Experiences and Paths of Opportunity section. Walmart’s Digital Trust Commitments Service Our use of technology  and data will be in  service of people. Excellence We strive for excellence  in our technology,  making it simple,  convenient, and secure. Integrity We will use data responsibly  and transparently and  always with integrity."
"Respect Our data practices and  technology will treat  people fairly, with dignity  and respect. FY2025 ESG Report  88  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Corporate Governance Ethics and Compliance Responsible Use of Data and Technology Human Rights Responsible Engagement in Public Policy Protecting Privacy To earn customers’ and stakeholders’ trust, we consider their privacy from the outset,  starting with the design phase of any given project."
"Walmart’s Global Privacy by Design  Policy requires associates to build privacy controls into the initial design, ongoing  operations, and management of a given technology solution, business process, or project.  Communicating Privacy Information: Our privacy notices provide stakeholders with  comprehensive information about the collection, use, protection, and sharing of personal  information. In addition to our Walmart Customer Privacy Notice, we maintain other  U.S‑focused privacy notices"
"relevant to our associates and suppliers, and those that  cover our specialized operations including Health & Wellness and Financial Services.  We also maintain jurisdiction-specific privacy notices in our international markets. Walmart teams track privacy laws in the U.S., and other countries where we operate,  assess their applicability and impact, and update our processes, practices, and notices as  needed to address them. See our Privacy & Security page. In addition, we maintain and"
"implement Walmart’s global data incident response policies  and procedures for reporting and addressing actual or suspected data incidents as  appropriate. The policies are supported by data incident notifications and regulatory  reporting guidelines and standards. Engaging With Stakeholders on Privacy: Walmart endeavors to shape the field with  respect to digital trust, and we support policy that enhances consumer privacy in the  physical, digital, and omnichannel world, including support for a"
"national privacy law. Read more in the Responsible Engagement in Public Policy section. Walmart seeks to grow and support  the talent pool in the cybersecurity  industry through participation in and  sponsorship of programs including  the National College Cyber Defense  Competition and RSA Security Scholars  program, which help develop the next  generation of cybersecurity experts. Cybersecurity Our cybersecurity operations run 24/7/365, focused on safeguarding business operations  and"
"information from cybersecurity threats and responding to incidents when they  occur. Walmart’s approach to cybersecurity, including governance, risk management, and  incident response is discussed in Walmart’s annual report on Form 10-K. Our cybersecurity program is grounded by policies and standards that cover topics  including roles and responsibilities, security requirements, security awareness and  training, and escalation processes that associates can follow should they notice something"
"suspicious. Teams across the organization, for example store operations, marketing, and  merchandising, are trained in cybersecurity best practices. Associates are required to  report known or suspected violations of the policies, and policy violations may result in  disciplinary action up to and including termination. The size of Walmart’s business, our geographic reach, the number of consumer  transactions we make, and the nature of the information we collect to operate our  business make us a"
"target for threat actors, as discussed in more detail in Walmart’s most  recent annual report on Form 10-K. We use learning modules, phishing exercises, gamified  security awareness, tech talks, and awareness campaigns to maintain an always-on,  cyber‑aware, shared responsibility culture. Helping Customers Stay Safe in the Digital World: As the digital world grows more  complex, Walmart shares knowledge with our customers to build trust and help keep  them secure online. For example, we publish"
"a customer-facing Cybersecurity Hygiene page that describes  steps that customers can take to keep their private information safe and reduce  cybersecurity risk. Walmart also maintains a webpage providing customers and the public with information  about common digital scams and fraud situations, particularly those involving the  unauthorized use of Walmart’s name or brand. Advancing the Cybersecurity Field: Walmart is committed to sharing its expertise to  strengthen the information security"
"community and help develop the next generation  of cyber professionals. We have made significant contributions to various open-source  information security projects and malware information-sharing forums, and we have built  strong partnerships to share intelligence about cybersecurity risk across retail and other  business verticals. Challenges •       The size of Walmart’s business, our geographic reach, the number of consumer  transactions we make, and the nature of the information we collect"
"to operate our  business make us a target for threat actors. •         Walmart is subject to a broad scope of industry data protection standards and  protocols. Walmart also has compliance obligations associated with new and changing  privacy laws and regulations, which sometimes include obligations inconsistent with  other jurisdictions. •         Fast-evolving technology, such as AI, poses challenges in terms of development,  flexibility, and scalability. These technologies change rapidly, and"
"we must continually  assess their relevance to our business, risks, and alignment with our digital values. Gamified Cybersecurity Training Virtual Escape Rooms Our escape rooms use creative methods to  integrate cybersecurity concepts with  everyday situations. During these immersive virtual experiences, associates  must find their way through various threats and avoid  security violations to “escape the room.” We have multiple  versions focusing on real-life cyber threat tactics. Born Secure"
"Escape Room The “Born Secure” Escape Room focuses on • Physical Security • Social Engineering • Phishing • Security Habits • Passwords vs. Passphrases • Real World Threats • Incident Response FY2025 ESG Report  89  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Corporate Governance Ethics and Compliance Responsible Use of Data and Technology Human Rights Responsible Engagement in Public Policy Human Rights Our Aspiration We respect human rights and seek to use our"
"scale,  capabilities, and influence to help people and  communities improve their lives, with a focus on our  salient human rights issues. Relevance to Our Business and Society Our business is a people business: we employ  approximately 2.1 million people; approximately 270  million people shop with us weekly across 19 countries;  and Walmart’s supply chain consists of tens of  thousands of suppliers globally, many of whom have  their own suppliers. Walmart believes business has a"
"responsibility to respect human rights and that our  business thrives when our associates, people in supply  chains, customers, and our communities thrive. Our Approach Human Rights Commitment and Governance: We  assess actual and potential human rights impacts,  integrate and act upon the findings of our assessments,  track the effectiveness of our response to human rights  impacts, and communicate how impacts are addressed. Management of Salient Issues in Our Operations:   We set expectations"
"through policies, procedures,  and standards; engage stakeholders and assess their  feedback; and implement strategies to address issues  and underlying systems. Management of Salient Issues in Our Supply Chain:  We set expectations through policies, procedures,  and standards; engage stakeholders and assess their  feedback; and implement strategies to address issues  and underlying systems. FY2025 ESG Report  90  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX"
"Corporate Governance Ethics and Compliance Responsible Use of Data and Technology Human Rights Responsible Engagement in Public Policy Human Rights Commitment  and Governance Human Rights Commitment and Salient Issues We strive to use our position as an employer, retailer, and community member to promote  respect for human rights. The U.N. Guiding Principles (UNGP) on Business and Human  Rights recognize four essential components of an effective human rights due diligence  program. Walmart’s"
"approach to human rights due diligence reflects those components:  We assess actual and potential human rights impacts, integrate and act upon the findings  of our assessments, track the effectiveness of our response to human rights impacts, and  communicate how impacts are addressed. Our Human Rights Statement serves as the foundation of our human rights efforts. It  confirms Walmart’s respect for human rights and articulates how our culture and values,  as well as certain principles in"
"international instruments—including the U.N. Universal  Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s 1998 Declaration  on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the UNGP on Business and Human  Rights—guide our approach to human rights due diligence. Each of the salient issues set  forth in the Human Rights Statement are addressed in our Code of Conduct (applicable  to Walmart associates) and Standards for Suppliers (applicable to Walmart suppliers).  Recent"
"milestones in our approach to human rights governance are outlined below. The Statement and Walmart's list of salient human rights issues were developed  by a working group consisting of leaders from teams including associate relations,  communications, government affairs, legal, and responsible sourcing functions. We first memorialized our approach to human rights due diligence in 2018. In alignment  with UNGP guidance, in 2022–2023 we (with the support of a third party) reviewed  our human"
"rights due diligence approaches, including salient issues and focus areas,  governance, policies, and practices. Our effort included internal and external stakeholder  consultation, including NGOs, academics, intergovernmental agencies, and the investment  community. Walmart focuses our efforts on the human rights issues that we have assessed as the  most salient to our activities or business relationships. Additionally, we collaborate  beyond our business activities, as human rights issues are"
"complex and are often the  result of systemic issues, including deeply entrenched economic practices, inconsistent  government regulation and enforcement, and workers lacking knowledge, support, or  tools to safeguard their rights. Board and Management Oversight of Human Rights Issues Our Board and Board committees actively oversee and monitor the management of the  most significant human rights issues relevant to our company. The NGC is responsible  for overseeing Walmart’s ESG initiatives,"
"including our overall approach to human rights, and  receives updates on these initiatives from Walmart’s CSO. Salient human rights issues are often a topic of Board committee discussion. Recent  examples include: •  Wage investments, benefits, training, and pay equity •  The company’s belonging strategies and programs •       Our ethics and compliance program •     Overall updates on our ESG priority issues, including human rights. In order to support business teams in advancing respect for"
"human rights, Walmart  maintains a cross-functional human rights working group. Additionally, Walmart identifies, assesses, and assigns responsibility for managing issues  raised in its annual ERM process, which includes topics related to Walmart’s salient human  rights issues. Treating Workers  With Respect • Pay; working hours • Freedom of association  and collective bargaining • Meaningful opportunities  for workers to be heard • Physical safety and  security of work premises • Workplace"
"abuse • Healthy work  environments Promoting a Safe  and Healthy Work  Environment • Anti-discrimination  and harassment • Belonging, including but  not limited to race, gender,  or protected status Providing a Fair and  Inclusive Work  Environment • Forced, trafficked, child,  and underage labor • Vulnerability of migrant  workers, responsible  recruitment Combating Forced  and Child Labor • Data privacy and security • Ethical AI and biometrics • Transparent use of  human-facing technology"
"Using Technology  and Personal Data  Responsibly Salient Human Rights Issues FY2025 ESG Report  91  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Corporate Governance Ethics and Compliance Responsible Use of Data and Technology Human Rights Responsible Engagement in Public Policy Communicating Expectations Walmart associates and suppliers are informed of our human rights positions and  expectations through the dissemination of our Human Rights Statement and other"
"core  standards, incorporation of principles into our foundational policies and standards, and  training and awareness on those policies and standards. Associates—Basic Beliefs, Code of Conduct, Policies, and Training Walmart’s Code of Conduct translates our core values into standards and expectations  for our associates. The Code of Conduct: •  Sets foundational expectations on each of our salient human rights issues •     Explains when to speak up and how to speak up, and prohibits retaliation"
"for  speaking up •     Requires compliance with other applicable policies and our Standards for Suppliers. Company-wide training on the Code of Conduct and targeted trainings on salient human  rights issues like discrimination and harassment prevention, freedom of association and  labor compliance, and responsible sourcing helps to keep our salient human rights issues  top-of-mind. Suppliers—Standards for Suppliers, Policies, Training, and Communication Walmart’s Standards for Suppliers, which"
"are embedded in our supplier agreements,  sets expectations of our suppliers on respecting foundational human rights issues like  safe and respectful working environments and the prohibitions of forced, underage, or  child labor. Suppliers are expected to cascade the requirements of our Standards for  Suppliers to any parties involved in the process of providing products to Walmart. Walmart  merchandising and sourcing associates are regularly trained on our Global Responsible  Sourcing"
"Compliance Policy, our Standards for Suppliers, and our Responsible Sourcing  expectations. Read more in the People in Supply Chains section. Human Rights Focus Areas Due diligence across our salient issue set is guided by three factors: •  Connection between the issue and Walmart’s core business activities •   The nature, severity, and prevalence of the issue and the current state of practices with  respect to the issue •       Walmart’s opportunity to have an impact through the deployment of"
"business and  philanthropic assets and capabilities. Factors and sources we use to assess the nature, severity, and prevalence of human rights  issues include: •     Findings and data from our Responsible Sourcing program, including internal risk  assessments, thousands of supplier audits, and hundreds of cases and investigations •         Internal analyses such as pay equity analyses •         Associate engagement data and insights, like our Ethics and Open Door programs,  which can reveal"
"gaps, trends, and emerging areas of focus •   Prevalence studies and external analyses, including studies produced by NGOs,  governmental agencies, and industry groups such as the U.S. Department of State  Trafficking in Persons Report, World Bank Worldwide Governance Indicators, Verité  Forced Labor Commodity Atlas, Leadership Group on Responsible Recruitment  findings, and Seafood Task Force data. Stakeholder engagements help us obtain new insights, spot emerging issues, and confirm  focus"
"areas. Where data or insights do not exist to help inform our approaches, we seek to fill  gaps through philanthropy or our own studies. For example, the Walmart Foundation  commissioned the first comprehensive study documenting the prevalence of forced  labor on Thai fishing vessels. Milestones in Walmart’s Human Rights Governance Statement and  Salient Issues Adopted first Human  Rights Statement and  salient issues Standards  and Code Updated Standards  for Suppliers and  Code of Conduct,"
"aligned with Human  Rights Statement Forced Labor  Policy Adopted Global  Forced Labor  Prevention Policy Third-Party  Review Engaged third-party  and reviewed our  human rights due  diligence approaches,  including salient issues  and focus areas,  governance, policies,  and practices Statement and  Salient Issues Updated Human  Rights Statement and  salient issues HRIAs Conducting HRIAs FY2025 ESG Report  92  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX"
"Corporate Governance Ethics and Compliance Responsible Use of Data and Technology Human Rights Responsible Engagement in Public Policy Management of Salient Issues:  Walmart’s Operations We focus on the following to foster respect for the individual within Walmart: •   Setting expectations through policies, procedures, and standards •      Engaging stakeholders and assessing their feedback, insights, and concerns •    Designing and implementing strategies to address individual issues and"
"relevant  underlying systems. Read more in the Our People and Ethics and Compliance sections. Human Rights in Walmart’s Supply Chains Setting Expectations Through Policies, Procedures, and Standards Walmart’s Code of Conduct translates our values and human rights priorities into expectations for our  associates. Complementary internal and external policies help to clarify expectations regarding salient  human rights, including: •        Treating Workers With Respect: (e.g., Associate Pay Policy,"
"Family Care Pay Policy) •   Promoting a Safe and Healthy Work Environment: (e.g., Safety & Health in the Workplace Policy) •        Providing a Fair and Inclusive Work Environment: (e.g., Global Discrimination & Harassment Prevention Policy) •         Combating Forced and Underage Labor: (e.g., Global Forced Labor Prevention Policy, Minors in the Workplace Policy) Engaging Stakeholders •      Associates: Associate surveys, digital platforms (e.g.,  apps), townhalls, team huddles, operations"
"listening  sessions, grassroots sessions, Year Beginning Meetings,  Associates’ Week discussions •  Civil Society: 1:1 dialogues, online engagement, participation in  coalitions and conferences (e.g., Impact Employer Network, Multiple  Pathways Initiative), investment in research, community public  meetings, Walmart events (e.g., 2024 Opportunity Summit) •      Customers: Qualitative and quantitative research, pulse surveys,  social media/digital engagement, focus groups, owned channels  (e.g.,"
"email, call centers) •  Investors: Investment Community Meeting, 1:1 discussions,  shareholder proposal process and proxy season engagement,  Annual Shareholders’ Meeting and investor reception Designing and Implementing Strategies •       Assessing the Nature, Severity, and Prevalence of Human  Rights Issues: Data and insights from our Ethics, Open Door,  and associate engagement sources; stakeholder engagement;  internal analyses and reporting; prevalence studies and external analyses"
"(e.g., pay gap analyses) •         Practices: Associate well-being (pay, benefits, health and safety,  anti‑discrimination policies and procedures), growth (job design, career paths,  upskilling through Walmart Academy, Live Better U), promoting belonging  throughout the talent lifecycle, associate listening/engagement to receive  and act on associate feedback •       Public Policy Advocacy: Issues relevant for our workforce (e.g., workforce  development and healthcare) •       Philanthropy:"
"Walmart’s Retail Opportunity program, investing over  $100 million since 2015 to advance upward mobility for frontline retail workers •   Tracking and Disclosing Performance: ESG and other reporting  (e.g., starting and average wages, benefits availability and participation,  full‑time/part-time ratios, workforce statistics, third-party representation,  OSHA safety statistics) •     Grievance and Remedy: Maintaining channels for raising concerns and  grievances (e.g., Ethics channels, Open Door,"
"MyFeedback) FY2025 ESG Report  93  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Corporate Governance Ethics and Compliance Responsible Use of Data and Technology Human Rights Responsible Engagement in Public Policy Management of Salient Issues:  Supply Chain We work across industries, geographies, and stakeholder groups to help advance  respect for human rights in supply chains with a focus on our salient issues by: •       Setting expectations through policies"
"and standards •   Engaging stakeholders and assessing their feedback, insights, and concerns •    Designing and implementing strategies to address the issue and relevant  underlying systems. Read more in the Our People and Ethics and Compliance sections. Human Rights in Walmart’s Supply Chains Setting Expectations Through Policies, Procedures, and Standards •         Standards for Suppliers: Set foundational Walmart’s expectations on our salient human rights  issues for product suppliers •"
"Additional policies, standards, and expectations for suppliers: For example, the Global Forced  Labor Prevention Policy, Seafood Policy, and Bangladesh safety requirements Engaging Stakeholders •    Worker in the Supply Chain: Site visits including  worker interviews; Walmart ethics channels; human  rights impact assessments; worker helplines (e.g.,  Nirapon and LABs) •   Civil Society: Dialogues with NGOs, academics, and other  thought leaders; grantee engagement (e.g., Avina Americas,"
"CIERTO, Equitable Food Initiative, International Justice Mission,  Issara Institute, Polaris, Stronger Together) •        Multi-Stakeholder Forums: For example, Leadership Group  for Responsible Recruitment, Seafood Task Force, Responsible  Labor Initiative, Life and Building Safety initiative •  Governments: Direct engagement; forums (e.g., the Bali Process) •       Investors: 1:1 consultations and listening sessions; shareholder  proposal process and proxy season engagement; Annual"
"Shareholders’ Meeting; Investment Community Meeting Designing and Implementing Strategies •     Assessing Impacts and Risks: Audit and case management data;  prevalence studies (e.g., study on migrant labor in Thai seafood  industry; IOM study on migrant labor in Thailand and Malaysia) •        Practices to Embed Respect for Human Rights: Standards and expectations  for suppliers; best practice sharing; tools and transparency; strengthening  demand; advocating for good public policy; building"
"worker voice •        Tracking and Disclosing Performance: ESG disclosures (e.g., Responsible  Sourcing audit results) •      Grievance and Remedy: Ethics channels (e.g., 24/7 global helpline available in  29 languages; email; website; posters) See Embedding Respect for Human Rights in  Supply Chains on the following page. FY2025 ESG Report  94  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Corporate Governance Ethics and Compliance Responsible Use of Data and"
"Technology Human Rights Responsible Engagement in Public Policy Embedding Respect for Human Rights in Supply Chains Walmart Sourcing Requirements and Supplier Engagement—Example Actions •  Setting Foundational Policies and Standards: Walmart Standards for Suppliers and supplier agreements; auditing program and case  management; transparency standards •   Responsible Sourcing Program: Monitoring working conditions and compliance with Walmart’s Standards for Suppliers through  audits and"
"investigations and engaging suppliers in remediation •    Product Certifications Supporting Human Rights: including Fair Trade USA, Rainforest Alliance, and Roundtable on Sustainable  Palm Oil •        Encouraging Supplier Adoption of Enhanced Standards: Seafood Task Force Code of Conduct and Vessel Auditable Standards;  Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct; Ethical Charter on Responsible Labor Practices •  Small-Scale Sourcing: Sourcing products from small and innovative"
"suppliers and entrepreneurs Cultivating and Disseminating Resources: Responsible sourcing training •  Walmart and Supplier Engagement in Industry Initiatives: Alliance for Bangladesh Worker Safety; Nirapon; LABS; RBA •    Promoting Supplier Measurement and Reporting: Ethical Charter implementation and reporting; Supplier Responsible  Recruitment initiative. Walmart and Walmart Foundation Supply Chain Capacity Building—Example Actions •       Invest in Data, Technology, and Research to Promote"
"Transparency and Understand Prevalence: IJM study on migrant labor in  Thai seafood industry; IOM study on migrant labor in Thailand and Malaysia; Wilson Center study on wages, working conditions, and  recruitment; The Nature Conservancy seafood electronic monitoring; human rights impact assessments •      Build Capabilities of Underrepresented Producers: Market Access program to promote inclusive production in Central America,  India, and Mexico •        Enhance Market Participant Awareness:"
"Stronger Together awareness training for U.S. produce suppliers; CIERTO training for Mexico  and U.S. produce corridor actors; FishWise awareness tools •         Strengthening Demand: Leadership Group for Responsible Recruitment; Seafood Task Force; Ethical Charter group; RBA; RBA  Foundation program to incentivize ethical recruitment •        Develop and Disseminate Worker-Facing Tools and Training: Issara worker training; Avina worker training •       Encourage Enforcement: Engaging Southeast"
"Asian governments on enforcement; Seafood Task Force government engagement;  The Bali Process; engaging U.S. government agencies to encourage action to root out forced labor •       Promote Worker and Community Voice: Polaris tool for Mexican migrant workers; Issara hotline and Golden Dreams app. Read more in the FY2025 Walmart Worker Dignity in Retail Supply Chains. Challenges •        Progress in addressing human rights issues depends on the maturity, rigor, and efficacy  of local and national"
"infrastructure, supported by means such as third-party standards  and initiatives, which require a critical mass of suppliers and other businesses to align  on common standards and best practices. •   Due to differences among nations and cultures, there currently is no universal set  of standards for responsible or sustainable production and/or certification beyond  compliance with the law (e.g., responsible recruitment, hourly wages). Furthermore,  there are limits to the efficacy of tools used"
"to monitor compliance. FY2025 ESG Report  95  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Corporate Governance Ethics and Compliance Responsible Use of Data and Technology Human Rights Responsible Engagement in Public Policy Responsible Engagement in Public Policy Our Aspiration Through policy advocacy, engagement with lawmakers,  support for the political process, and collaboration with  business coalitions and key NGOs, we aim to support  public policy that is"
"in the interests of our business  and stakeholders. Relevance to Our Business and Society Responsibly and transparently engaging in public policy  helps Walmart create shared value while building trust  with stakeholders. Our Approach Governance and Transparency: Ensuring Walmart’s  public policy strategies align with our business priorities  and company values, promote transparency, and ensure  legal compliance. Public Policy Advocacy: Supporting and helping to  shape policies that promote our"
"business interests. Associate Political Action: Through the Walmart Inc.  Political Action Committee for Responsible Government  (WALPAC), helping our associates advocate for issues  important to our customers, fellow associates, suppliers,  communities, and shareholders. Trade Associations and Other Business Coalitions:  Prioritizing and advancing key issues that strengthen  our business and affect our stakeholders. FY2025 ESG Report  96  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS"
"& INTEGRITY APPENDIX Corporate Governance Ethics and Compliance Responsible Use of Data and Technology Human Rights Responsible Engagement in Public Policy Governance and Transparency We govern our public policy activities to align with our business priorities and company  values, promote transparency, and comply with relevant laws and our political spending  policies. Governance includes Board committee oversight, management oversight,  and regular, transparent reporting on policy activities."
"Read more in the Corporate  Governance section. Management Oversight Walmart’s management team designs and implements our public policy activities  day-to-day, while our Government Relations Policy guides the company’s interaction  with elected officials and legislative and regulatory bodies at all levels. Among other  things, the policy delineates roles and responsibilities for engagement with public officials,  sets parameters on corporate and political giving, governs fundraising and"
"solicitation by  our associates, and defines how we evaluate trade association memberships. Transparency Walmart is committed to transparency regarding our public policy activities. We submit  quarterly reports to the U.S. Congress that outline our federal lobbying activities, including  lobbying expenditures and the specific legislative items and public policy issues that  were the topics of communication, and identify the registered-lobbyist associates  having the communications. We also"
"submit lobbying reports in each state in which  we employ a registered lobbyist; the contents of those reports vary depending on  state requirements. Federal Lobbying: Walmart employs federally registered lobbyists and retains lobbyist  consultants.64 We file quarterly lobbying reports with the U.S. House and Senate. •        Federal lobbying activities (LD-1 and LD-2 Reports): U.S. Senate Lobbying  Disclosure—Registrations and Quarterly Activity. For 2024, we disclosed $7.24  million in"
"lobbying expenses. •       Federal political contributions (LD-203 Reports): U.S. Senate Lobbying Disclosure State Lobbying: Walmart also employs registered lobbyists for state-level engagements.  See below for reports on state-level lobbying expenditures: •         2024 State Lobbying Expenditures •      2023 State Lobbying Expenditures •      2022 State Lobbying Expenditures Additional Transparency: Walmart’s Government Relations Policy also provides that  the company will report at least"
"annually on our public policy priorities, strategies, and  activities, as well as transparency in our trade association memberships and lobbying  activities. To that end, Walmart has: •  Published a discussion on our public policy priorities, advocacy strategy, and  external engagements •  Disclosed our philosophy on trade association memberships, including our approach  to dealing with trade association policy misalignments •     Published a list of FY2025 Walmart Key Trade Associations and"
"Other Business  Coalitions to which Walmart contributes funds of $25,000 or more per year and  updates this list at least annually. 64   Walmart engages in lobbying contacts as defined under the U.S. Lobbying Disclosure Act (LDA). FY2025 ESG Report  97  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Corporate Governance Ethics and Compliance Responsible Use of Data and Technology Human Rights Responsible Engagement in Public Policy Public Policy Advocacy Walmart"
"engages in public policy discussions to promote the interests of our company and our stakeholders by focusing on issues that align with our shared value approach, without regard for the private political preferences of any associates (including senior leadership and  executives). We determine whether and how to weigh in on these matters by considering the relevance to our business and brand, shareholder expectations, and our ability to be an effective, credible actor. The key issues on which we"
"engage in public advocacy, listed alphabetically  below, are central to our business. Corporate Tax Policy Walmart continues to be one of the largest corporate taxpayers and supports tax policy solutions that are competitive, fair, and  pro-growth. Keeping the U.S. corporate tax rate competitive globally, ensuring U.S. companies are not subject to double taxation,  and ensuring the U.S. tax code is reliable and consistent for all taxpayers helps businesses prioritize U.S. investment, build our"
"communities, and support jobs. Energy and Climate Action Our energy and climate action strategy centers on ensuring access to sustainable energy, maintaining cost-efficiency, enhancing resilience,  and reducing emissions. Guided by our Board-approved statement on Climate Policy, we advocate for initiatives that drive clean energy  investments, promote efficient transportation solutions, and align with our goal of achieving zero operational emissions. Healthcare Walmart supports policies that"
"enhance access to affordable healthcare for the communities we serve. With over 5,100 pharmacies  and thousands of stores and clubs nationwide, the company is uniquely positioned to deliver health and wellness services to a broad  population. Our priorities include expanding access to these services by advocating for pharmacists to operate at the full scope of their  training—administering immunizations, conducting screenings and tests, providing treatment, and offering personalized counseling"
"on  medications, nutrition, and wellness. Additionally, we support initiatives that increase access to healthy and nutritious food. Nature, Biodiversity, and Sustainable Products Many of the products that we sell come from nature or depend on ingredients derived from nature. Degradation and/or loss of  critical landscapes and biodiversity can compromise agricultural productivity, contribute to climate risk, and increase product cost.  We support business organizations (e.g., CGF Forest Positive"
"Coalition, Seafood Task Force, Better Cotton, U.S. Roundtable for  Sustainable Beef) and public policies that promote regenerative approaches, increase funding for research and development, and  improve technical assistance for farmers. Responsible Use of Data and Technology Our commitment to the ethical use of data and responsible use of technology helps build trust in our company, mitigate potential  risks of improper practices, and align our actions with emerging law and regulation in the"
"places where we do business. Through  business organizations and direct advocacy, we support policies that enhance consumer privacy in the physical, digital, and  omnichannel world and support a federal privacy law in the U.S. Retail Crime and Consumer Fraud Protection Walmart works with policymakers and public safety officials to ensure we are providing a safe workspace for our associates and a safe,  enjoyable experience for our customers. The nature of retail crime varies from petty theft to"
"organized retail crime and consumer  fraud schemes. Walmart works with trade associations to support legislation (such as the Combating Organized Retail Crime Act)  that we believe will help stem the tide of both retail- and customer-facing organized retail crime. Trade and Resilient Supply Chains Walmart supports a stable, rules-based global trade system and advocates for policies that expand consumer choice, maintain  affordability for our customers, enhance predictability, drive economic"
"growth, reduce market access barriers, and promote worker  safety and sustainable development. We engage directly and through business coalitions (e.g., Business Roundtable) to advance  transparent trade frameworks, leveraging engagements with local governments and international summits to advocate for laws and  norms that advance sustainable supply chains. Transportation Our supply chains are the backbone of our business, allowing Walmart to serve our customers and communities with essential"
"and  everyday products and services. We support public policies that promote innovation and efficiency, and that create an enabling  environment for the development, adoption, and scaling of new technologies. U.S. Manufacturing Since Sam Walton first launched a “Buy American” initiative in 1985, Walmart has been committed to sourcing and selling products  that support American jobs. In 2021 we committed $350 billion toward U.S. manufacturing and American Jobs—building on our  2013 commitment to"
"invest $250 billion in products made, grown, or assembled in America. We support policies that promote U.S.  manufacturing and address barriers to U.S. production, and work with domestic manufacturers, business coalitions, and the U.S.  government to identify opportunities to enhance domestic manufacturing, particularly in critical sectors (e.g., food, pharmaceuticals,  and textiles). We help amplify the voices of U.S. small businesses—which in FY2025 made up over 60% of all Walmart U.S."
"suppliers— by connecting small business owners directly to policymakers on Capitol Hill through our U.S. Manufacturing Fly-In. In 2025, we  launched Grow with US to attract even more U.S.-based suppliers and further strengthen our domestic supply chain. Waste Reduction and Circular Economy We support policies that are in line with our aspiration to reduce needless operational and packaging waste, reduce food waste,  develop and sell products designed for circularity, and improve recycling. For"
"example, we have supported the development of  model Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) systems in the United States through the Circular Action Alliance and the EPR  Leadership Forum and participate in business organizations that engage on waste reduction policy (e.g., Zero Food Waste Coalition). Workforce Development We support policies that enhance workforce training and education and engages in business collaboratives (e.g., Business  Roundtable’s Multiple Pathways Initiative) focused on"
"building stronger career pathways. Additional information on how we engage on these issues may be found throughout this report in the relevant sections. FY2025 ESG Report  98  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Corporate Governance Ethics and Compliance Responsible Use of Data and Technology Human Rights Responsible Engagement in Public Policy Associate Political Action In the U.S., campaign finance laws at the federal level and in many states govern"
"the use  of corporate funds in the election process. Eligible Walmart associates have formed  and have the opportunity to support WALPAC, an employee-funded political action  committee. WALPAC supports lawmakers who can help advance policy priorities  important to our associates because they are critical to the interests of our customers,  fellow associates, suppliers, communities, and shareholders. 53.8% Republican 46.2% Democrat WALPAC Federal Donations 2023–2024 Contributions to state and"
"federal candidates and committees are made considering  a wide range of criteria such as voting records, leadership positions, committee  membership, and legislative activity. WALPAC’s campaign contributions to elected  officials are not an endorsement of their individual beliefs, voting records, or comments,  and WALPAC may examine candidates’ public statements, social media posts, and  other communications when making contribution decisions. In 2024, WALPAC made  contributions to state-level"
"candidates and committees in 23 states, as well as  Washington DC and Puerto Rico. See: WALPAC Contributions (FEC.gov) WALPAC Governance: WALPAC’s activities are governed by its bylaws and the WALPAC  Advisory Board, comprising Walmart officers and senior management. The WALPAC  Advisory Board sets the overall budget each calendar year and reexamines and adjusts  the overall WALPAC strategy at the close of each biennial election cycle. WALPAC senior  management determines how to disburse annual"
"WALPAC funds in alignment with this  strategy. In accordance with federal election regulations, a report of WALPAC receipts  and contributions is disclosed to the Federal Election Commission monthly. Trade Associations and Other  Business Coalitions Walmart maintains memberships in business coalitions that we believe can help us create  long-term shared value. Memberships enable us to collaborate with others on issues  that affect Walmart, our stakeholders, and the retail sector overall through"
"best practice  sharing, special initiatives, and/or advocacy. The nature and level of our engagement varies from membership to membership,  depending on relevance to Walmart’s objectives and the relative effectiveness and  importance of the organization in helping us achieve those objectives. In some cases,  we may be involved in multiple initiatives and serve on an organization’s board or key  committees; in other cases, our involvement may be more targeted. We periodically  review our"
"memberships to determine whether and how we continue to engage. Certain stakeholders express interest in the company’s approach to trade associations  (classified as 501(c)(6) organizations under the U.S. tax code) because trade associations  can engage in public policy activities.  While we directly communicate with policymakers  and the public about company perspectives on key public policy issues, we may also  engage through trade associations to amplify our voice. A trade association’s"
"stance on any individual issue may not align with Walmart’s,  especially when an association has broad membership engaged in a wide range of  issues. In such cases, we engage members and/or association leadership to resolve  misalignment. When we cannot come to agreement, we may or may not maintain our  membership in the trade association. If we generally agree with the trade association’s  position on other important issues, we will typically remain members while continuing to  seek to"
"influence. If the disagreement is substantial across multiple policy issues, we will  discontinue membership. See FY2025 Walmart Key Trade Associations and Other Business Coalitions. Challenges •        Walmart is a complex business, operating across multiple sectors to bring essential  products and services to people who need them. There are many public policy issues  that bear on our ability to deliver on our mission, and it can be challenging to optimize  outcomes across all issues. •"
"The public expects a company’s political engagement to align with its values. At  the same time, there can be pressure to weigh in on issues that are neither core to  our business nor critical to a majority of our stakeholders. We have decision-making  processes to determine whether and how to get involved in an issue, but we may not  always meet all stakeholders’ expectations. •  The political process is subject to many influences. Walmart is but one actor and may  not be able to influence"
"public policy. •        Walmart is often in the position of supporting certain aspects of legislation or  regulation while opposing other aspects. Stakeholders may not fully appreciate nor  recognize these nuances. •        Walmart may not agree with every position or lobbying action taken by trade  associations to which we belong. We work to influence these associations, but they  ultimately set their own agendas and are subject to a wide array of member views. As  discussed above, we have"
"processes for handling any such misalignment, but we may  not always meet all stakeholders’ expectations. FY2025 ESG Report  99  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Appendix The following data tables provide detailed metrics  and performance indicators organized by relevant  shared value priority issue area. The report highlights  key metrics, while the data tables provide a more  comprehensive view of relevant performance  indicators. For ease of use,"
"this data is also available  in an Excel format for download. In This Section Opportunity 101        Our People: Associate Experiences and Paths of Opportunity 105  Supplier Opportunity Sustainability 106         Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions 107   ISSB: International Financial Reporting Standard S2 (IFRS S2)  Climate-related Disclosures Index 108    Regeneration of Natural Resources & Product Supply  Chain Sustainability 109    Waste: Circular Economy 110     People in Supply Chains"
"Community 111   Serving Communities and Disaster Preparedness  and Response Ethics & Integrity 112      Corporate Governance and Ethics & Compliance FY2025 ESG Report 100  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity Opportunity Our People: Associate Experiences and Paths of Opportunity Overall Workforce Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Framework/Goal Alignment People employed, worldwide ~2.1 million ~2.1 million"
"~2.1 million GRI: 2-7 People employed, U.S. ~1.6 million ~1.6 million ~1.6 million People employed, outside U.S. ~0.5 million ~0.5 million ~0.5 million Percent of U.S. hourly associates in  full‑time jobs65 66.0% 66.5% 69.6% Average tenure for a Walmart associate  in the U.S. 5 years 5 years 5 years Number of associates with more than  10 years of tenure 312,000 309,000 314,000 Number of associates with more than  25 years of tenure 64,500 58,500 53,400 Wages Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023"
"Framework/Goal Alignment Average starting wage in the U.S. $15.75 $15.75 $15.25  SASB: CG-MR-310a.1, FB-FR-310a.1  Average hourly wage in the U.S. $17.75 $17.50 $17.00 Average total hourly compensation  in the U.S.66 $22.50 $22.00 $21.75 * As of mid-year FY2026, the average hourly wage in the U.S. was more than $18.00 per hour. Associate Well-Being Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Framework/Goal Alignment Associates with retirement savings in  Walmart 401(k) plan 860,000 703,00067 693,00067 GRI"
"401-2, GRI 401-3 401(k) company match $1.82 billion $1.58 billion $1.48 billion Percentage of active full-time and salaried  U.S. associates participating in at least one  of Walmart’s stock ownership programs 43.6% 41.2% 40.3% Starting cost of medical plan per bi‑weekly  pay period CY2025 $36.10 CY2025 $34.50 CY2023 $33.00 Number of Walmart parents utilizing  parental leave benefits 33,100 29,200 32,400 Development and Advancement Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Framework/Goal Alignment Percent of"
"U.S. roles not requiring  college degrees 90% >75% — Number of U.S. associates promoted  to jobs of greater responsibility and  higher pay68 100,400 130,000 181,000 Percentage of U.S. roles above entry level  filled by internal candidates 84.9% 86.2% 88.9% Training and Education Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Framework/Goal Alignment Amount invested toward nearly $1 billion  commitment over five years in career- driven training and education $803 million $560 million — Goal: By 2025, Walmart U.S."
"will put millions  of associates through focused training  programs to equip them with skills to  improve career growth, from entry-level  positions to jobs with more responsibility and  higher pay GRI: 404-2a Number of associates enrolled in  Live Better U 41,700 25,900 34,700 Number of Walmart U.S. store associates  participating in Walmart Academy  trainings since 2016 3.56 million 3.27 million 2.89 million 65        Hourly associates include full- or part-time U.S. associates (excluding"
"Puerto Rico) who are in an active or leave of absence employment status and working in stores, clubs, supply chain field locations, and/or call centers. It excludes the following associate types: Home Office associates, pharmacists, optical/vision center managers, drivers, management trainees, temporary associates, and associates  in non-store operations. 66        Average total compensation includes average hourly pay, other compensation, and benefits per hour for full- and part-time"
"associates. 67        FY2024 and FY2023 numbers represent 401(k) average enrollment. This metric was updated in FY2025 to measure number of associates with retirement savings in Walmart’s 401(k) plan. 68   Data includes both hourly and management promotions and excludes Walmart Home Office promotions.. FY2025 ESG Report  101  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity Opportunity Our People: Associate"
"Experiences and Paths of Opportunity Workforce69 Metric FY2025 Framework/Goal Alignment Global Workforce­—Associates by country Africa 1.4% SASB CG-MR-330a.1 SASB CG-EC-330a.3 GRI 405-1 Canada 4.9% Central America 1.7% Chile 1.8% China 3.1% India 2.2% Mexico 9.2% United States 75.3% Additional Markets 0.0% Global Workforce—Women Africa 49.5% SASB CG-MR-330a.1 SASB CG-EC-330a.3 GRI 405-1 Canada 52.4% Central America 51.3% Chile 54.0% China 61.3% India 24.1% Mexico 55.7% United States 51.0%"
"Additional Markets 49.0% Global Workforce—Women by management level Total 51.2% SASB CG-MR-330a.1 SASB CG-EC-330a.3 GRI 405-1 Non-management 52.4% Management 45.0% Officer 36.6% Workforce69 Metric FY2025 Framework/Goal Alignment International Workforce—Women by management level Total 50.4% SASB CG-MR-330a.1 SASB CG-EC-330a.3 GRI 405-1 Non-management 55.5% Management 46.6% Officer 34.0% U.S. Workforce—Women by management level Total 51.0% SASB CG-MR-330a.1 SASB CG-EC-330a.3 GRI 405-1 Non-"
"management 51.5% Management 43.9% Officer 37.0% U.S. Workforce—by ethnicity (total workforce) African American/Black 20.1% SASB CG-MR-330a.1 SASB CG-EC-330a.3 GRI 405-1 Asian 5.1% Caucasian 47.6% Latino 21.7% Native American/Alaskan Native 1.1% Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 0.4% 2+ races 3.1% U.S. Workforce—by ethnicity (total workforce) African American/Black 20.7% SASB CG-MR-330a.1 SASB CG-EC-330a.3 GRI 405-1 Asian 4.4% Caucasian 46.9% Latino 22.4% Native American/Alaskan Native 1.1% Native"
"Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 0.4% 2+ races 3.1% 69        For historical data in these categories, please refer to the Belonging Report Archives. FY2025 ESG Report  102  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity Opportunity Our People: Associate Experiences and Paths of Opportunity Workforce70 Metric FY2025 Framework/Goal Alignment U.S. Workforce—by ethnicity (management) African American/Black 11.5% SASB"
"CG-MR-330a.1 SASB CG-EC-330a.3 GRI 405-1 Asian 14.9% Caucasian 56.3% Latino 12.0% Native American/Alaskan Native 0.8% Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 0.3% 2+ races 3.8% U.S. Workforce—by ethnicity (officer) African American/Black 7.7% SASB CG-MR-330a.1 SASB CG-EC-330a.3 GRI 405-1 Asian 9.8% Caucasian 71.0% Latino 5.4% Native American/Alaskan Native 0.5% Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 0.0% 2+ races 5.2% Workforce70 Metric FY2025 Framework/Goal Alignment U.S. Workforce—promotions (total"
"management) Women 43.0% SASB CG-MR-330a.1 SASB CG-EC-330a.3 GRI 405-1 African American/Black 11.4% Asian 11.9% Caucasian 57.3% Latino 14.2% Native American/Alaskan Native 0.8% Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 0.2% 2+ races 4.0% U.S. Workforce—promotions (hourly-to-hourly) Women 51.9% SASB CG-MR-330a.1 SASB CG-EC-330a.3 GRI 405-1 African American/Black 18.3% Asian 3.4% Caucasian 47.9% Latino 23.8% Native American/Alaskan Native 1.3% Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 0.3% 2+ races 3.8% 70      For"
"historical data in these categories, please refer to the Belonging Report Archives. FY2025 ESG Report  103  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity Opportunity Our People: Associate Experiences and Paths of Opportunity Workforce71 Metric FY2025 Framework/Goal Alignment U.S. Workforce—promotions (hourly-to-management) Women 42.6% SASB CG-MR-330a.1 SASB CG-EC-330a.3 GRI 405-1 African American/Black 15.2%"
"Asian 3.9% Caucasian 52.3% Latino 23.1% Native American/Alaskan Native 0.6% Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 0.1% 2+ races 4.4% U.S. Workforce—promotions (management-to-management) Women 43.2% SASB CG-MR-330a.1 SASB CG-EC-330a.3 GRI 405-1 African American/Black 9.9% Asian 14.9% Caucasian 59.2% Latino 10.8% Native American/Alaskan Native 0.8% Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 0.2% 2+ races 3.9% Workforce71 Metric FY2025 Framework/Goal Alignment U.S. Workforce—new hires Women 47.1% SASB CG-"
"MR-330a.1 SASB CG-EC-330a.3 GRI 405-1 African American/Black 27.2% Asian 3.3% Caucasian 39.7% Latino 21.8% Native American/Alaskan Native 1.4% Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander 0.5% 2+ races 4.5% 71        For historical data in these categories, please refer to the Belonging Report Archives. FY2025 ESG Report  104  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity Opportunity Our People: Associate Experiences and"
"Paths of Opportunity Workforce72 Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Framework/Goal Alignment U.S. Workforce—Military-connected Number of veterans hired in the U.S. 29,400 30,900 47,000 Number of veterans promoted in the U.S. 5,310 5,670 6,650 Military spouses hired in the U.S. 17,100 18,200 27,200 U.S. Workforce—by age Average age—overall 39 years 39 years 39 years Average age—hourly 39 years 38 years 38 years Average age—management 41 years 41 years 41 years 16–19 10.2% 20–29 28.1% 30–39 18.6% 40–49"
"15.4% 50–59 14.0% 60+ 13.3% 72      For historical data in these categories, please refer to the Belonging Report Archives. Opportunity Supplier Opportunity Purchases Supporting American Jobs Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Framework/Goal Alignment Between 2021–2030, incremental  cumulative total purchases $176 billion $99.5 billion $47.1 billion Goal: Between 2021 and 2030, purchase  an incremental $350 billion in products  supporting American jobs GRI: 204-1 Developing Suppliers Metric FY2025"
"FY2024 FY2023 Framework/Goal Alignment Spend with certified and verified U.S.  small businesses $65.0 billion — — Market Access Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Framework/Goal Alignment Walmart Foundation grants to support  smallholder farmers in Central America,  India, and Mexico (previous five years) $82.3 million — — Number of people reached by grants  made to help build capacity and advance  economic livelihoods of smallholder farms 700,000 277,000 — Goal: Fund projects in India designed to help"
"build capacity and advance the economic  livelihoods of 1 million smallholder farmers  by 2028 Number of micro-, small- and medium- enterprises trained through the Vriddhi  Supplier Development Program 70,000 50,000 — FY2025 ESG Report  105  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity Sustainability Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions Operational GHG Emissions Metric FY2025 FY202473 FY202373"
"Framework/Goal Alignment Annual Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions MMT CO2e CY2024 15.65 CY2023 15.47 CY2022 15.22 Goal: Achieve zero emissions across global  operations by 2040 Sub-goal: Reduce absolute global Scope 1 & 2  GHG emissions 35% by 2025 and 65% by 2030  from CY2015 baseline (approved as science- based and classified as 1.5°C‑ aligned, SBTi) GRI: 305-1, 305-2 Scope 1 MMT CO2e CY2024 9.03 CY2023 8.93 CY2022 8.53 Scope 2 (market-based) MMT CO2e CY2024 6.61 CY2023 6.54 CY2022 6.69 Scope 2"
"(location-based) MMT CO2e CY2024 9.67 CY2023 9.28  CY2022 9.59 Percent change in annual Scope 1 & 2  emissions (vs. CY2025 baseline) CY2024 -18.1% CY2023 -19.0% CY2022 -20.3% Sub-goal: Reduce absolute global Scope 1 & 2  GHG emissions 35% by 2025 and 65% by 2030  from CY2015 baseline (approved as science- based and classified as 1.5°C- aligned, SBTi) GRI: 305-1, 305-2 Percent change in annual Scope 1 & 2  market based emissions (vs. previous year) CY2024 +1.1% CY2023 +1.7% CY2022 +0.7% Carbon"
"intensity (Scope 1 & 2, Market- based, Calendar Year) (MT CO2e per $M  revenue, Fiscal Year) FY2025 22.98 FY2024 23.87 FY2023 24.89 Percent change in carbon intensity per  revenue (vs. previous year) CY2024 -3.7% CY2023 -4.1% CY2022 -6.4% Reducing Emissions in the Supply Chain Metric FY2025 FY202473 FY202373 Framework/Goal Alignment Estimated Scope 3 footprint (MMT CO2e) CY2024 636.57 CY2023 625.30  CY2022 609.82 GRI: 305-3 Scope 3 intensity (MMT CO2e / $B fiscal  year net sales) CY2024 0.94"
"CY2023 0.97 CY2022 1.00 Reduced or avoided CO2e emissions  reported by suppliers cumulatively  since CY2017 1.19 billion MT 1 billion MT >750 million MT Goal: Reduce or avoid 1 billion MT CO2e in the  global value chain by 2030 (Project Gigaton) GRI: 305-3 Reduced or avoided emissions reported  by suppliers in reporting year >198 million MT >250 million MT >175 million MT Energy Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Framework/Goal Alignment Estimated percentage of global electricity  needs supplied by"
"renewable sources  (including grid contribution)74 CY2024 48.5% CY2023 47.6% CY2022 46.6 % Sub-goal: Power 50% of our global  operations with renewable sources of energy  by 2025 and 100% by 2035  SASB: CG-MR-130a.1 Estimated percentage of global electricity  needs supplied by renewable sources  (excluding grid contribution)75 CY2024 30.6% CY2023 29.6% CY2022 29.3% SASB: CG-MR-130a.1 Number of electric vehicle charging  stations available at Walmart stores and  clubs across the U.S. >1,300 1,281"
"1,281 73    CY2022 and CY2023 GHG emissions have been restated. 74  This includes generation from active renewable and low-carbon projects. It considers the combined contribution of power generated from onsite and offsite projects as well as renewable energy generation feeding into the grids where our sites are located. The electricity procured from our renewable energy projects and the most recent grid fuel mix information obtained from the U.S. Energy Information  Administration for the"
"regions where we operate. 75  Calculated in accordance with guidance RE100 technical criteria. RE100 defines renewable electricity consumption as the ability to make unique claims on the use of renewable electricity generation and its attributes. FY2025 ESG Report  106  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity ISSB IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures Index Our ESG Reporting is guided by a commitment to"
"transparency, consistency, and alignment with globally recognized standards.  This year, we have aligned with the International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB) International Financial Reporting Standard  (IFRS) Sustainability Disclosure Standards, specifically IFRS S2 for climate-related disclosures. IFRS S2 builds on and succeeds the  recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Disclosure Description References and Remarks Governance IFRS S2"
"reference 6a-6b The objective of climate-related financial disclosures on governance is  to enable users of general purpose financial reporting to understand the  governance processes, controls and procedures used to monitor and  manage climate-related risks and opportunities. Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions, see “Governance  and Transparency” Strategy IFRS S2 reference 8, 9a-9e The objective of climate-related financial disclosures on strategy is to  enable users of general purpose"
"financial reporting to understand an  entity’s strategy for managing climate-related risks and opportunities. Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions, see “Assessing Climate and  Energy-Related Risks and Opportunities,” “Key Findings and Example  Mitigation Strategies” table Climate-related risks and opportunities IFRS S2 reference 10a-10d An entity shall disclose information that enables users of general  purpose financial reporting to understand the climate-related risks  and opportunities"
"that could reasonably be expected to affect the  entity’s prospects. Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions, see “Assessing Climate and  Energy-Related Risks and Opportunities,” “Key Findings and Example  Mitigation Strategies” table, “Adaptation” Business model and value chain IFRS S2 reference 13a-13b An entity shall disclose information that enables users of general purpose  financial reports to understand the current and anticipated effects of  climate-related risks and opportunities on"
"the entity’s business model  and value chain. Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions, see “Assessing Climate and  Energy-Related Risks and Opportunities,” “Key Findings and Example  Mitigation Strategies” table Strategy and decision-making IFRS S2 reference 14a-14c An entity shall disclose information that enables users of general purpose  financial reporting to understand the effects of climate-related risks and  opportunities on its strategy and decision-making. Climate Resilience, Energy,"
"and Emissions, see “Assessing Climate and  Energy-Related Risks and Opportunities,” “Key Findings and Example  Mitigation Strategies” table, “Adaptation” Financial position, financial performance and cash flows IFRS S2  reference 15a-b 16a-d An entity shall disclose information that enables users of general  purpose financial reporting to understand the effects of climate-related  risks and opportunities on its financial position, financial performance,  and cash flows.  Climate Resilience,"
"Energy, and Emissions, see “Assessing Climate and  Energy-Related Risks and Opportunities,” “Key Findings and Example  Mitigation Strategies” table Climate resilience IFRS S2 reference 22a-22b An entity shall disclose information that enables users of general purpose  financial reporting to understand the resilience of the entity’s strategy  and business model to climate-related changes, developments and  uncertainties, taking into consideration the entity’s identified climate- related risks and"
"opportunities. The entity shall use climate-related  scenario analysis to assess its climate resilience using an approach that is  commensurate with the entity’s circumstances. Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions, see “Assessing Climate and  Energy-Related Risks and Opportunities,” “2024 Climate Risk Assessment  Summary,” “Key Findings and Example Mitigation Strategies” table Disclosure Description References and Remarks Risk management IFRS S2 reference 24, 25a-25c The objective of"
"climate-related financial disclosures on risk management  is to enable users of general purpose financial reports to understand  an entity’s processes to identify, assess, prioritise and monitor climate- related risks and opportunities, including whether and how those  processes are integrated into and inform the entity’s overall risk  management process. Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions, see “Assessing Climate and  Energy-Related Risks and Opportunities,” “2024 Climate Risk Assessment"
"Summary,” “Key Findings and Example Mitigation Strategies” table, “Regular  Monitoring of Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities,” “Adaptation” Metrics and targets IFRS S2 reference 27, 28a-c The objective of climate-related financial disclosures on metrics and  targets is to enable users of general purpose financial reports to  understand an entity’s performance in relation to its climate-related risks  and opportunities, including progress towards any climate-related targets  it has set, and"
"any targets it is required to meet by law or regulation. Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions, see “Accelerating Progress  Toward Zero Operational Emissions (Scope 1 & 2),” “Engaging Stakeholders  to Lower Value Chain Emissions (Scope 3),” “Powering Our Operations With  Renewable Sources of Energy” Climate-related metrics IFRS S2 reference 29a-29g An entity shall disclose information relevant to the cross-industry metric  categories of: greenhouse gas emissions, climate-related transition"
"risks,  climate-related physical risks, climate-related opportunities, capital  deployment, internal carbon prices, and remuneration. Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions, see “Innovating to Lower  Operational Emissions (Scope 1 & 2),” ”Mitigation: Energy and Emissions,”  “Engaging Stakeholders to Lower Value Chain Emissions (Scope 3),”  “Powering Our Operations With Renewable Sources of Energy”  Corporate Governance, see “ESG and Shared Value Oversight  and Management” Climate-related"
"targets IFRS S2 reference 33a-33e, 34a-34d, 35, 36a-36e  An entity shall disclose the quantitative and qualitative climate-related  targets it has set to monitor progress towards achieving its strategic goals,  and any targets it is required to meet by law or regulation, including any  greenhouse gas emissions targets. Climate Resilience, Energy, and Emissions, see “Innovating to Lower  Operational Emissions (Scope 1 & 2),” “Engaging Stakeholders to Lower  Value Chain Emissions (Scope 3),”"
"“Powering Our Operations With  Renewable Sources of Energy” FY2025 ESG Report  107  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity Sustainability Regeneration of Natural Resources and Product Supply Chain Sustainability Sustainably Managing, Restoring, and Conserving Landscapes and Seascapes Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Framework/Goal Alignment Total acres of land engaged in more  sustainable management,"
"protection,  and/or restoration 43.3 million acres 33.6 million acres >30 million acres Goal: Walmart and the Walmart Foundation  have set a goal to help protect, more  sustainably manage, or restore at least  50 million acres of land and 1 million square  miles of ocean by 2030 GRI 304-3 Square miles of ocean engaged  in protection, more sustainable  management, or restoration 1.93 million  square miles 1.92 million  square miles 1.46 million  square miles Total acres conserved through Acres"
"for  America since 2005 2.00 million acres 2.10 million acres 2.00 million acres GRI: 304-3 Amount invested annually by the Walmart  Foundation to help protect, restore, and/ or more sustainably manage nature $25 million $21 million $19 million Spatial area protected, more sustainably  managed, or restored (as reported  by grantees) as a result of Walmart  Foundation grants made from  FY2021–FY2025 127,308 acres 256,462 acres >29,000 acres Spatial area expected to be protected,  more sustainably"
"managed, or restored  (as reported by grantees) as a result of  Walmart Foundation grants made from  FY2021–FY2025 8.28 million acres 1.65 million  square miles 4.43 million acres 1.65 million  square miles 3.74 million acres 1.65 million  square miles Project Gigaton Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Framework/Goal Alignment Percentage of U.S. product net  sales represented by suppliers who  reported to one or more of Walmart’s  Sustainability surveys 76.7% 78.4% 76.0% Number of suppliers reporting"
"to  Project Gigaton 3,743 3,500 >3,000 Percentage of U.S. product net sales  dollars represented by suppliers  reporting to Project Gigaton 76.7% 76.9% 74.1% Information, Communication, and Technology Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Framework/Goal Alignment Percentage of Walmart U.S. information,  communication and technology net sales  from suppliers implementing the RBA  Code of Conduct76 73.1% 74.9% 78.7% Goal: Increase information, communication,  and technology sales from suppliers who"
"implemented the RBA Code of Conduct Apparel and Home Textiles Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Framework/Goal Alignment Percentage of polyester volume for  Walmart U.S., Walmart Canada, and Sam’s  Club U.S. private brand apparel and home  textile products sourced as recycled  polyester, based on supplier reports77 Walmart U.S. 28.0% 28.6% 25.1% Goal: 50% of polyester volume for Walmart U.S.,  Walmart Canada, and Sam’s Club U.S. private  brand apparel and home textile products  sourced as recycled"
"polyester by 2025 Sam’s Club U.S. 63.3% 64.6% 36.3% Walmart Canada 12.6%78 21.7% 13.5% Animal Welfare Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Framework/Goal Alignment Percentage of Walmart U.S. and Sam’s  Club U.S. cage-free shell eggs, as  percentage of total shell egg net sales,  based on supplier reports Walmart U.S.  27.7% 27.4% 21.0% Goal: Transition Walmart U.S. and  Sam’s Club U.S. to a 100% cage-free egg  supply chain by 2025, subject to regulatory  changes and based on available supply,"
"affordability and customer demand SASB: FB-FR-430a.2 Sam’s Club U.S. 65.0% 64.5% 40.5% Percentage of shell eggs at Walmart U.S.  and Sam’s Club U.S. meeting United Egg  Producers animal welfare requirements or  equivalent, based on supplier reports Walmart U.S. 100% 100% 100% Sam’s Club U.S. 100% 100% 100% Percentage of Walmart U.S. and Sam’s  Club U.S. fresh pork suppliers abiding by  the standards of the National Pork Board’s  Pork Quality Assurance Plus Program,  based on supplier reports"
"Walmart U.S. 100% 100% 100% Sam’s Club U.S. 100% 100% 100% 76       Based on Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) membership (regular or full category) or implementing the RBA Validated Assessment Program for each disclosed facility. 77 Results are based on supplier survey responses and calculated as a percentage of supplier reported data. FY2023 results do not include estimated results of non-reporting suppliers. 78 At the time of this reporting, Walmart Canada does not expect to meet the 2025"
"commitment for recycled polyester, based on current data, assumptions, and external dependencies. This forward-looking statement is subject to change based on evolving conditions and should not be interpreted as a guarantee of future performance. FY2025 ESG Report  108  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity Sustainability Waste: Circular Economy Operational Waste Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023"
"Framework/Goal Alignment Global percentage of waste materials  diverted from landfill and incineration CY2024 83.5% CY2023 83.5% CY2022 82.3% Percentage of waste materials diverted  from landfill and incineration per country CY2024 U.S. 84.4% Canada 83.0% Mexico 83.2% CY2023 U.S. 84.2% Canada 83.3% Mexico 81.4% CY2022 U.S. 83.3% Canada 83.4% Mexico 80.4% Goal: Divert 90% of operational waste  (considered “zero waste” by ZWIA) from  landfill and incineration in Canada, Mexico,  and U.S. markets"
"by 2025 Food Waste Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Framework/Goal Alignment Global operational food loss  and waste intensity reduction  (vs. CY2016 baseline) CY2024 12.1% reduction CY2023 21.7% reduction CY2022 15.2% reduction Goal: Reduce operational food loss and waste  50% by 2030 (vs. CY2016 baseline) Pounds of global operational food waste  by destination type (as reported by our  third-party partners) CY2024 Animal feed:  409 million lbs. Biochemical  processing:  67 million lbs. Composting:"
"332 million lbs. Anaerobic  digestion:  167 million lbs. Landfill or  incineration:  1.545 billion lbs. CY2023 Animal feed:  578 million lbs. Biochemical  processing:  64 million lbs. Composting:  153 million lbs. Anaerobic  digestion:  156 million lbs. Landfill or  incineration:  1.262 billion lbs. CY2022 Animal feed:  524 million lbs. Biochemical  processing:  106 million lbs. Composting:  163 million lbs. Anaerobic  digestion:  113 million lbs. Landfill or  incineration:  1.297 billion lbs."
"Estimated percentage of Walmart  U.S. private brand food sales using  “Best If Used By” or “use by” date label  terminology unless a food safety or  regulatory reason might prevent them  from doing so, based on supplier reports 91.4% 90.1% 96.2% Recycling Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Framework/Goal Alignment Percentage of Walmart U.S. food and  consumables private brand supplier- reported sales with How2Recycle® label79 CY2024 93.1% CY2023 91.7% CY2022 92.1% Percentage of Sam’s Club private"
"brand, supplier-reported sales with  How2Recycle® label CY2024 88.9% CY2023 89.0% CY2022 83.2% Pounds collected through customer  recycling programs at Walmart in Africa,  Central America, Chile, and Mexico CY2024 3.04 million lbs  CY2023 2.99 million lbs CY2022 1.86 million lbs. Packaging80 Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Framework/Goal Alignment Estimated percentage of global private  brand packaging that is recyclable,  reusable, or industrially compostable CY2024 66.1% CY2023 68.2% CY2022 63.4%"
"Goal: 100% of global private brand packaging  recyclable, reusable, or industrially  compostable by 2025 Estimated percentage of global private  brand plastic packaging made of post- consumer recycled (PCR) content CY2024 7.6%  CY2023 7.6% CY2022 7.5% Goal: 17% global private brand plastic  packaging made from PCR content by 2025 Estimated percentage private brand  plastic packaging in North America made  of PCR content CY2024 8.0%  CY2023 7.3% CY2022 7.2% Goal: 20% private brand plastic"
"packaging  in North America made from PCR content  by 2025 Percentage reduction/increase in  private brand virgin plastic packaging  (vs. CY2020 baseline, based on supplier  reports) CY2024 5.4% increase  CY2023 8.1% increase CY2022 5.9% increase Goal: Reduce virgin plastic in global  private brand packaging 15% by 2025  (vs. CY2020 baseline) 79        How2Recycle is the leading product packaging labeling system, aiming to increase transparency, educate consumers, and improve recycling behavior"
"and rates. Used by major U.S. retailers and consumer packaged goods companies, including Walmart, it provides standardized labeling based on applicable laws, technical recyclability, and the availability of curbside and drop-off recycling programs. The program’s  labels are backed by nationally harmonized data and are designed to adapt to evolving U.S. Federal and State legislation. 80   Walmart private brand suppliers representing 91.7% of Walmart global private brand net sales reported"
"packaging data in CY2024. FY2025 ESG Report  109  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity Sustainability People in Supply Chains Responsible Sourcing Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Framework/Goal Alignment Supplier-disclosed facilities in  “active” status81 24,700 25,900 26,900 Number of third-party responsible  sourcing facility audit reports assessed 13,300 13,900 13,100 SASB: CG-AA-430b Facility color"
"ratings for assessed audit  reports, as a percentage of all assessed  audits for the fiscal year 30.6% Green 56.7% Yellow 12.3% Orange 0.2% Red 24.7% Green 64.1% Yellow 10.7% Orange 0.4% Red 22.6% Green 68.5% Yellow 8.7% Orange 0.3% Red Number of cases opened related to  allegations of supply chain misconduct 1,163 975 822 GRI: 414-2 Number of countries where assessed  third-party responsible sourcing facility  audits were conducted 77 91 66 Number of suppliers Walmart stopped  doing business"
"with, in response to  serious violations of our standards in  prior five years 20 19 15 SASB: CG-AA-430b.2 81         Where a facility is required to be disclosed to Walmart, “Active” status denotes that the supplier can use the facility for Walmart production. FY2025 ESG Report  110  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity Community Serving Communities and Disaster Preparedness and Response Access to"
"Affordable, Quality Products Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Framework/Goal Alignment Number of pickup and delivery  locations globally >8,000 pickup  and delivery >8,000 pickup >7,800 delivery  >8,100 pickup ~7,000 delivery Percent of U.S. households within 10 miles  of a Walmart store/club ~90% ~90% ~90% Annual sales of local fresh produce  in Walmart U.S. Supercenters and  Neighborhood Markets $1.49 billion $1.42 billion $1.29 billion Goal: Double Walmart U.S. sales of locally  grown produce"
"between the end of FY2017  and the end of FY2026 ($930 million baseline) Contributing to Economic Vitality82 Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Framework/Goal Alignment Corporate income-based taxes  paid worldwide $5.88 billion $5.87 billion $3.31 billion Effective corporate income tax rate 23.4% 25.5% 33.6% Investments in U.S. store and  club remodels $5.55 billion $5.79 billion $4.99 billion Sparking Good in Communities Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Framework/Goal Alignment Global giving: total cash"
"and  in‑kind donations83 $2.0 billion $1.78 billion $1.71 billion Global giving: total cash donations $282 million $282 million $284 million Global giving: total in-kind donations $1.72 billion $1.49 billion $1.43 billion U.S. and Canada: Local Facility Grants84 $54.6 million $46.9 million $44.0 million Dollars raised from U.S. customers for  charitable organizations $111 million $93.3 million $92.6 million Number of U.S. associates that  participated in Spark Good volunteerism 20,400 12,700"
"7,50084 Number of volunteer hours U.S.  associates reported 295,000 hours 317,000 hours 182,000 hours Food Donation Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Framework/Goal Alignment Food donations globally CY2024  855 million lbs. CY2023 767 million lbs. CY2022 760 million lbs. SASB: FB-FR-150a.1 Food donations in the U.S.85 752 million lbs. 661 million lbs. 666 million lbs. Percentage of U.S. food donations that are  fruits, vegetables, meat or dairy 57.8% 57.7% 57.9% Percentage of U.S. stores and clubs"
"participating in food donation 97.7% 91.5% 92.9% Disaster Preparedness and Response Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Framework/Goal Alignment Total global cash and in-kind donations  from Walmart and the Walmart  Foundation for disaster recovery  and preparedness $24.3 million $15.2 million $15.9 million Sustainable Chemistry Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Framework/Goal Alignment Priority Chemical Intensity (total weight  of priority chemicals relative to total  product weight) 1.69%86 2.03% 1.93% 82"
"As stated in Walmart’s annual reports on Form 10-K. 83  Total global giving includes cash donations made by Walmart Inc and subsidiaries and related charitable entities, and estimated value of in-kind donations. 84  Reporting for FY2023 reflects number of U.S. associates participating in the Volunteerism Always Pays program, which has been incorporated into Walmart’s new Spark Good platform. 85   Based on reports from Feeding America. 86       For CY2024 reporting, we used a new data source that"
"provides more precise product weight measurements. The impact of this change is not material. FY2025 ESG Report  111  INTRODUCTION OPPORTUNITY SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNITY ETHICS & INTEGRITY APPENDIX Opportunity Sustainability Community Ethics & Integrity Ethics & Integrity Corporate Governance and Ethics & Compliance Board of Directors87 Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Framework/Goal Alignment Director independence—Independent  directors as a percentage of all directors 75% Independent 73% Independent"
"64% Independent Director independence—Non-management  directors as a percentage of all directors 91%  Non‑Management 91%  Non‑Management 91%  Non‑Management Percentage of Walmart Board of Directors  who are women 25% 27% 27% GRI: 405-1 Percentage of Walmart Board directors  who are ethnically or racially diverse 17% 18% 18% Board and committee meeting attendance  rate—meetings attended as a percentage  of all meetings 99% 98% 99% Investor Engagement Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Framework/Goal"
"Alignment Shareholder engagement—percentage  of public float engaged since preceding  annual shareholders’ meeting 38% 37% 39% Ethics and Compliance Metric FY2025 FY2024 FY2023 Framework/Goal Alignment Percentage of assigned associates  completing Code of Conduct training88 97% ~95% — Number of independent food safety  audits conducted at Walmart stores and  clubs globally 68,400 72,400 71,800 Number of associates trained in at least  one food safety course 1.16 million 1.21 million >1.19"
"million 87      Metrics on our Board of Directors are current as of time of publication. 88     Walmart associates receive training on the Code of Conduct during onboarding and regularly thereafter; Walmart updated its training metric definition in FY2024 to show percentage of associates completing assigned Code of Conduct training rather than number of associates receiving the training. FY2025 ESG Report  112"
