"2 0 2 4  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y  R E P O R T  Table of Contents 02   We Are Westrock Coffee   03     Our Approach to a Sustainable Future 04         Our Vision for 2030  06         2024 Accomplishments 08         Responsible Sourcing 10         Our Sourcing Capabilities 12    Celebrating 10 Years of Raíz Sustainability™ 14          Raíz Sustainability™ Spotlights 16     Manufacturing’s Role in Sustainability  17      Welcoming the Future with Conway 18     From Farmers to Customers 20"
"Glossary + Appendix THANK YOU TO OUR PARTNERS At Westrock Coffee Company, we feel privileged to work with many outstanding organizations throughout the coffee  supply chain. We would especially like to thank the farmers, exporters, and organizations with whom we collaborated  with in 2024. We look forward to many more years of working together, driving positive change in the coffee industry.  Cover Photo: Paula Magalhães Paiva → Minas Gerais, Brazil → Farmer Direct Verified® farmer partner Ivan"
"Dario Correa Arboleda → Antioquia, Colombia → Raíz Sustainability™ farmer partner Forward-Looking  Statement This report includes forward-looking statements as defined under U.S. federal securities law, including, but not limited to, our  plans, expectations, goals, projections and statements regarding our sustainability efforts and other statements that are not  historical facts. These statements are based on various assumptions and on the current expectations of the management  of Westrock"
"Coffee as of the date hereof and are not predictions of actual performance. Actual events and circumstances  are difficult or impossible to predict and could materially differ from what is expressed, implied, or forecasted in these  statements due to a number of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those factors discussed in Westrock  Coffee’s annual report on Form 10-K, under the heading “Item 1A. Risk Factors”, and other documents Westrock Coffee has  filed, or will file,"
"with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on  forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. Westrock Coffee undertakes no obligation to publicly  update or revise any forward-looking statements after the date they are made, whether as a result of new information,  future events, or otherwise.  We Are  Westrock Coffee Westrock Coffee Company entered the coffee business in 2009 to challenge industry  norms and build a"
"better future for the entire supply chain. We envision a new normal,  in which coffee and tea products are grown sustainably by fairly paid farmers, traded  transparently, transformed to finished product without harm to the environment, and  enjoyed by people who understand the power of their purchase. Over the last 15 years, we scaled farm-to-cup accountability by developing digital traceability in our coffee supply chains, and  expanded that capability to 282,000 farmer transactions on four"
"continents. We have filled critical visibility gaps and built a  supply chain accountability framework to mitigate our customers’ supply chain risks. Our teams have tackled manufacturing  footprint reduction, efficiency improvements, and responsible packaging needs. We have created partnerships from farmer to  customer to uphold our collective responsibility to empower our partners and protect our environment. We offer all of this in  packaged product form to customers with the same goal.  Now,"
"we’re setting our 2030 sustainability strategy at a time when the sustainability conversation in our industry has become  convoluted. We want to distill the conversation to what’s most critical for our industry’s future. We do this with two questions.  Where does Westrock Coffee’s vision align with our industry’s needs and our sphere of influence? Westrock Coffee has influence  over our supply chains and communities, where the critical issues shaping the industry’s future are regenerative and"
"economically viable farm systems, climate resiliency, responsible water use and biodiversity protection, sustainable  community habits, methodical investments in sustainable manufacturing, and substantial waste elimination. How do we make an impact through market volatility and evolving sociopolitical environments? We supply coffee and tea that  restore farmer livelihood, communities, and nature through a systematic evolution from a responsible baseline, to a  sustainable middle ground, and"
"finally, to regenerative agribusiness. We embrace sustainable innovations wherever they make  a substantial contribution to our vision. We’re excited to share where we’ve been and where we’re headed in this report. Sincerely,  Brooke Cantrell  Vice President, Sustainability Westrock Coffee Company Our Approach to a  Sustainable Future 44 70% 1 Mission 8 3,800+ 5,700+ 1,400+ Q graders  facilities new customers   in 2024​ collective years  of experience in  the coffee & tea  industries team"
"members in 11 COUNTRIES  across all company groups​ workforce who support initiatives   in their own communities​ We aim to be the world’s  most competitive and innovative  provider of beverage solutions to the  most distinguished brands in order   to provide smallholder farmers and  their families the ability to advance their  quality of life and economic well-being. 16 teams managing  17 product formats 40% workforce  under 40   years old 0 3   /   2 0 2 4  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y  P R O G"
"R E S S 0 2  /  W E S T R O C K  C O F F E E  C O M P A N Y  Provide cost of production analysis and sales margin expansion  recommendations to farmers Use the same data to provide customer insights on the influence  of market pricing, climate change, and agricultural practices on  farm economic status Make nature-based solutions to climate change accessible to  Westrock team members through sustainability education  and  volunteer opportunities domestically and abroad We envision an industry in"
"which shared value and transparency stretch from our farmer  partners to our customers, empowering everyone in the supply chain with accountability,  dignified work, and a firm financial foundation.  Our mission has always been to empower smallholder farmers to build sustainable livelihoods through profitable, sustainable farming that  protects the resilience of their families, land, and communities.  Now, we’re expanding that mission to incorporate our manufacturing communities. We have seen"
"that the basic principles of resiliency are the  same worldwide. We’re excited to take everything we’ve learned over the last 15 years to launch our sustainability strategy for the next six years.  It focuses on key areas vital to resilience from farmers, to Westrock, to our customers—recognizing that supporting people goes hand in hand  with safeguarding the environment that sustains them. We invite our customers to partner with us in creating a sustainable future for the communities   we serve"
"and the industry as a whole.  Will Ford Chief Operating Officer Westrock Coffee Company Our Vision for 2030 Team members on a 2024 trip to visit a Westrock Coffee-funded water project in Rwanda Education & Empowerment Introduce innovative opportunities for farmers and   customers to connect and grow within Westrock Coffee’s   Raíz Sustainability™ platform Restore our ecosystems’ ability to support native biodiversity,  cash crops, water retention, and carbon sequestration in our  manufacturing"
"and coffee-producing communities Increase our facilities' production efficiency, significantly reduce  waste, and reduce GHG emissions Sustainable Supply   & Ecosystems Yessenia Yanet Rimache Chavez → San Martin,Peru → Farmer  Direct Verified® farmer partner Rwanda Trading Company farmer partners → Southern Province,  Rwanda Make our 15-year investment in supply chain transparency  capabilities available to our customers, providing deeper farm- to-customer connection and supply chain insights"
"Traceability & Transparency Ghulierme Marquet Chaves Garcia → Sul de Minas, Brazil →   Farmer Direct Verified® farmer partner Westrock Coffee’s  2030 Sustainability  Strategy 0 5   /   2 0 2 4  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y  P R O G R E S S 0 4  /  W E S T R O C K  C O F F E E  C O M P A N Y  2024 Accomplishments FARMER SUPPLIER MANUFACTURING2 CUSTOMERS 3 10 2023 2023 2024 2024 354 new farms added to sustainability  programs in 2024 79% growth in Raíz farmer training  sessions from 2023 to 2024"
"Service Projects and Programs  Offered to Farmers Responsibly Sourced   Coffee & Tea 89% 68% 100% of tea suppliers began responsible  sourcing assessments in 2024  370 conventional products transitioned  to responsibly sourced in 2024 91 potential responsible supply chain  risks1 identified and cleared in 2024  through supplier audits 130+ new products commercialized  in 2024 30,823 traceable farmer transactions  captured on behalf of   customers in 2024 Supplier Programs Approved   for Real"
"Roots™ Raíz Sustainability™ was recognized  by the Global Coffee Platform  as equivalent to the Coffee  Sustainability Reference Code,   2nd party assurance Suppliers Audited for Responsible Sourcing Compliance Actual  -5% Goal  -7.5% Goal  -4% 2023 2023 2023 2023 2024 2024 2024 2024 Landfill Waste Reduction Packaging Waste Reduction Water Use Reduction Electricity Use Reduction Actual  -11% Actual  -10% Goal  -31% 17 20 23 47 2023 2023 2024 2024 Actual  -4%3 0 7   /   2 0 2 4  S U S TA I N A B"
"I L I T Y  P R O G R E S S 0 6  /  W E S T R O C K  C O F F E E  C O M P A N Y  From our earliest days as an exporter in Rwanda, Westrock Coffee learned that  accountability is the cornerstone of mutually beneficial supply chain partnerships.  This is the reason we have made responsible sourcing the foundational component  of our sourcing strategy. This requirement and the framework we built to buy 100% of  our coffee and tea responsibly by the end of 2025 is not the easiest path, but what we"
"believe is the right one for Westrock Coffee.  From a compliance perspective, 100% of our coffee importers, processors, and  exporters within our strategic supply chains underwent third-party audits to ensure  adherence to our Responsible Sourcing Policy between 2023 and 2024. All tea suppliers  were assessed in 2024 and will complete third-party audits in 2025.  From a material purchases perspective, we created Real Roots™, an entry-level  program for participating farmers to sell us coffee in"
"compliance with a zero-tolerance  approach to specific issues such as forced labor and deforestation. We assess our  suppliers’ origin programs to ascertain whether they meet these standards. Through  the 23 approved programs, we purchased 29M lbs of responsibly sourced coffee on  behalf of our customers in 2024. By the end of 2025, all the coffee we source will be  Real Roots™ at a minimum. Responsible  Sourcing is Our Minimum Standard 100% RESPONSIBLY SOURCED COFFEE BY 2025 2021 - 59% 2022 -"
"69% 2023 - 68% 2024 - 89% 2025 Goal - 100% CLAY PARKER  SVP of Commodities → Little Rock, AR “By holding ourselves accountable to a responsible sourcing plan, we are choosing to be good stewards  of the supply chain. As a significant participant in a challenging coffee market, we owe it to our suppliers  and customers to pursue stability, sustainability, and transparency with every sourcing  decision we make. Having worked alongside the same coffee communities for over a  decade, I can attest"
"that resiliency and longevity in coffee start with being a  responsible partner—one who remains committed to the long-term success of  producers and the sustainability of their livelihoods.” HEAR FROM US BUILDING ON A FOUNDATION   OF RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Our long-term commitment to operating with responsible sourcing  as a core commitment is embodied by our relationship with 65,000  farmer partners in Rwanda where we operate through our sister  company, Rwanda Trading Company (RTC). From its"
"founding in  2009, RTC created fair market pricing between farmers and buyers  in Rwanda. Then, the company established transaction transparency  from farm to export. By 2013, it had the commercial foundation on  which to build its Agribusiness Training Program, which over 54,000  Rwandan farmers completed between 2013 and 2020. The program  generated substantial farm yield and revenue growth; it also created  the trust required for all post-training farmer services now offered by  RTC. This"
"includes seedling distribution and pre-harvest farm loans.  In 2024, RTC, in partnership with Westrock Coffee, surpassed its  goal to distribute 5 million tree seedlings by 2025. The first 351,000  coffee trees planted in 2025 are expected to provide a 297,145 lb.  volume bump in the 2025 harvest season. RTC also expanded its  pre-harvest loan program to 2,353 farmers at a total portfolio value  of almost 1 Billion Rwandan Francs, or USD $643,000, representing a  209% growth since the company"
"piloted the program in 2019.  JJ NDAYISENGA Managing Director of  Rwanda Trading Company   → Kigali, Rwanda HEAR FROM US “As we continue to navigate through  unpredictable market realities, RTC maintains  a commitment to support its farmer partners  by focusing on what we can control, quality and  meeting regulatory requirements. In 2024, GPS  coordinates were collected on 47,443  farms, and our entire supply chain is  100% EUDR-compliant  going into the   2025 season.” Team members on a 2024"
"trip to visit a Westrock Coffee-funded education project in Rwanda 1.1M+ seedlings distributed  in 2024 2,353 farmers received  farm loans with a 99%  repayment rate 60% of exports traceable  to farmers 47 suppliers were   3rd party audited   in 2024 91 14 potential supply chain  risks1 identified and  cleared in 2024 compliance  indicators in our  supplier audits 0 9   /   2 0 2 4  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y  P R O G R E S S 0 8  /  W E S T R O C K  C O F F E E  C O M P A N Y  Westrock Coffee"
"Supply We partner with farmers and customers  to advance our coffee supply from  responsible, to sustainable, and finally,   to regenerative. Westrock Coffee has developed sourcing capabilities that uniquely address the needs of both customers and farmers, while aligning with the  company’s vision for a resilient industry.  As a baseline, our sourcing programs and traceability functions give customers an efficient way to manage supply chain risks related to  environmental protection, human"
"rights, volume, and transparency. For customers and farmers who share our vision, we offer full digital product  traceability, farmer-to-customer connections, and sustainable farm investment opportunities.  TRACEABILITY FOR COMPLIANCE  Our standard coffee and tea traceability protocols pair with our  sourcing programs to give customers: 1)          Ethical supply risk mitigation; and  2)        Compliance with EU Deforestation Regulation and Corporate                Sustainability Due Diligence"
"across a range of products.  DO YOU KNOW WHERE YOUR COFFEE COMES FROM? TRACEABILITY FOR TRANSPARENT PARTNERSHIPS Farmer Direct Verified® is Westrock Coffee’s digital  traceability platform that  captures every transaction  from the farm forward to ensure economic transparency  and farmer payment accountability. Additionally,  customers can connect farmer transactions to each farm’s  sustainability status and make data-driven supply chain decisions .  Our Sourcing Capabilities   from Risk"
"Management to Regenerative Programs TM 32,395 metrics collected  to determine farm  sustainability status  in 2024 1,045 farmer partners  visited in 2024 30,833 farmer transactions  verified for fair  payment in 2024 Jose Estanislao Herrera Garcia and Aurelia Fernandez Inga → Peru → Farmer Direct Verified® farmer partners Real Roots™ provides a responsible foundation  for coffee sourcing that establishes social  and environmental accountability through a  supplier vetting process and an ethical"
"risk  management approach. Raíz Sustainability™ is comprised of sustainable   supply chain partners who are moving toward   regenerative agriculture.  Raíz products are also traceable to the farmer.  We know  the name, location, and sustainability status of every Raíz  farm and ensure they are paid fairly. 3rd party Certifications offer customers robust  choices and benchmark compliance criteria  for Westrock Coffee’s programs. REGENERATIVE SUPPLY CHAIN  PARTNERS ARE THRIVING, THEIR WORK  HELPS"
"FARMING COMMUNITIES, AND  THEY ARE RESTORING THE ECOSYSTEMS  IN WHICH THEY’RE WORKING. SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN PARTNERS ARE RESILIENT, THEIR WORK HELPS  FARMING COMMUNITIES, AND THEY ARE DOING NO HARM TO ECOSYSTEMS.   23  supplier  programs  approved 19  origins with  approved  programs HEAR FROM US It is very rewarding to be in the field every day to  be part of the producers' success through the  implementation of our Raíz Sustainability™ program.  Their good agricultural practices foster"
"awareness  of environmental conservation, and the continuous  improvement of their economic models is  strengthened by the integration  of new generations into the  family business, always with a  focus on sustainability.” MARLIO ABELLA Westrock Coffee Field Representative  → Huila, Colombia RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN PARTNERS ARE DOING NO HARM TO PEOPLE OR ECOSYSTEMS.  1 1   /   2 0 2 4  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y  P R O G R E S S 1 0  /  W E S T R O C K  C O F F E E  C O M P A N Y  Celebrating"
"10 Years of RaÍz SustainabilityTM  55M lb capacity in 2024; 6,800+   participating farmers  since 2015 $8.5M paid in farmer  premiums since 2015 5,408 training & farm visits  in 2024;  67,103   since 2015 Brothers, Cesar and Edwin Cortez → Quindío, Colombia → Raíz Sustainability™ farmer partners Where We Came From  Raíz Sustainability™ (Raíz) began in 2015 to  build a legacy of positive change on coffee  farms throughout our supply chain. After  10 years of success, we’re most proud of  being"
"part of the evolution of these farms.  Since 2015, average potential production has  increased by 59% and compliance with the  Raíz standard has increased by 10% and 30%  for mandatory and continuous improvement  indicators respectively. Where We Are  We have been committed to continuously  improving Raíz Sustainability™ to ensure  that it remains relevant and rigorous. In  2024, Raíz was recognized by the Global  Coffee Platform as equivalent to the Coffee  Sustainability Reference Code, 2nd"
"party  assurance. This recognition is a reflection  of our commitment to meet exacting  sustainability standards. Where We’re Going  After 10 years of programmatic and  commercial success,  we are looking ahead  and asking ourselves, what’s next for Raíz  Sustainability™? Over the next five years,  Westrock Coffee is devoted to 1) elevating  industry standards through Raíz’s five  Focus Areas, 2) providing more resources to  farmers and authentic farm connections to  customers, and 3) expanding"
"volume capacity DIFFERENTIATORS   Every farm receives 2 visits plus  training every year   3rd Party Audited Standard   Guaranteed farmer   premiums per pound sold   Customer visibility to every Raíz farmer   Compliance risk decreases and supply  security increases Finca Guayacanes → Concordia,Colombia Nicolás López Carvajal  → Quindio, Colombia Jose Herley Medina and Isaura Carrillo → Quindio, Colombia  GENDER EQUITY Equal participation on  coffee farms to ensure  greater farm profitability"
"and surety of supply FARM RESILIENCY Advance farm  business management  and the ability to be  profitable in the face  of outside risks REGENERATIVE  AGRICULTURE &  AGROFORESTRY Ensure the long-term viability  of coffee production while  minimizing its environmental  impact YOUTH  PARTICIPATION Facilitate the  transmission of coffee  knowledge to foster  innovation and create  economic incentives that  further the generational  legacy of coffee LABOR PRACTICES Contribute to on-farm and"
"community well-being while  also enhancing the quality  and resilience of the coffee  supply chain 2030   FOCUS  AREAS 1 3   /   2 0 2 4  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y  P R O G R E S S 1 2  /  W E S T R O C K  C O F F E E  C O M P A N Y  Celebrating the successes of 10 years of Raíz Sustainability™ would not be possible without the  resilience of all Raíz farmers, across six countries. Although farmer groups in every origin are held to the  same high standards, there are both challenges and"
"advantages that make each origin and farm unique.  This year, we are highlighting the accomplishments of two Raíz origins and two Raíz farmers whose  commitment to excellence continue to inspire their peers, employees, and our teams at Westrock Coffee  to make the coffee industry a more sustainable business for everyone. Colombia WHAT MAKES IT UNIQUE?  As the 3rd largest coffee producing country in the world, Colombia  has the scale to drive substantial positive changes in the coffee  industry."
"Within the Raíz Sustainability™ system, over 85% of  active Raíz farmers in Colombia joined the program in 2015 and will  soon celebrate 10 years of Raíz partnership. •   Most Raíz farmers participating of any origin •         Highest rate of technical assistance visits of any origin  •    1,070 hours invested in farmer training in 2024 Mexico WHAT MAKES IT UNIQUE? Coffee farming in Mexico is largely done by smallholders, many from  indigenous communities, providing ample opportunity for family"
"members  like women and young adults to be involved in the coffee business. One  of the key focus initiatives for this Raíz cluster has been the renovation  of coffee trees using leaf rust-resistant varieties that are locally adapted  and more productive. As a result, the average productivity in the group has  increased by 40%. •    26% of participants are women, the highest female  participation in 2024 •      Average farmer age is 48 years old, the lowest in any Raíz origin •     290,619 trees"
"planted, the highest in any Raíz origin  Oscar Obdulio Melgar Age: 51 Location: Canguacota, Honduras Farm Size: 29 hectares Westrock Coffee farmer partner since: 2023 Area of Excellence: Regenerative Agriculture Don Oscar exemplifies the positive impact of the five Raíz focus  areas on farms and communities. As a leader in sustainable  production, he promotes gender equity by actively including  women on his team and encourages youth participation to ensure  knowledge and innovation in coffee"
"production. He integrates native  trees into his coffee plots, restoring soil health and biodiversity,  which enhances farm productivity and strengthens its ecosystem.  Utilizing certifications like Raíz, he upholds high standards and  improves his economic opportunities. His resilience in adapting to  climate and market challenges makes him a model farmer, inspiring  others to adopt better social and environmental practices. Beatriz Helena Vélez Restrepo Age: 78 Location: Concordia, Colombia"
"Farm Size: 13.84 hectares Westrock Coffee farmer partner since: 2016 Area of Excellence: Gender Equity & Youth Engagement   Doña Beatriz has dedicated 53 years to coffee farming, making  it a priority to employ families, especially women, from nearby  communities. Recognizing that many women struggled to work due  to childcare needs, she founded the Hogar Infantil Niños del Café 30  years ago, providing a safe space, quality education, and food for the  children of coffee pickers. Beatriz’s farm"
"is known for its fair labor  practices. She ensures dignified treatment, reasonable work hours,  fair wages, and economic incentives for both men and women. She  also promotes education for workers and their children, maintaining  a close, supportive relationship with her employees and prioritizing  their well-being.  RaÍz SustainabilityTM  Spotlights 599 farms  2,576 ha total cluster area  4.31 ha average farm size  1,270 farms  24,603 ha total cluster area  19.37 ha average farm size  1 5   /"
"2 0 2 4  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y  P R O G R E S S 1 4  /  W E S T R O C K  C O F F E E  C O M P A N Y  In 2024, Westrock Coffee launched the largest roast-to-ready-to-drink  manufacturing facility in North America—an industry-leading hub  located in Conway, Arkansas, designed with sustainability at its core.  We strategically retrofitted an existing facility to optimize sustainable  operations, rather than building from scratch. We then equipped the  facility with the most efficient machinery"
"and installed advanced  controls to ensure maximum energy efficiency. This facility vertically integrates Westrock Coffee’s capabilities to  create sustainable products. Starting at origin, we source coffee and  tea through our own sustainable supply platforms and certified supply  chains. Once on-site, our state-of-the-art roasters use a minimum of  40% less energy while doubling roasting capacity. Uniquely, our on-site  coffee extraction units eliminate emissions typically generated by"
"transporting coffee extract between facilities. We operate the most advanced retort system in the industry,  significantly reducing energy consumption and maximizing water  recycling. Our on-site research and development team pilots and  verifies the scalability of new products in a small-scale environment  that precisely aligns with our production team’s processes and  equipment. This integration ensures recipes are perfected before  commercial-scale production, reducing costs and minimizing"
"ingredient waste. By bringing every step of the process under one roof, we provide our  customers a seamless, sustainable foundation for building the next  generation of beverage platforms.  Welcoming the   Future with Conway Manufacturing’s Role  in Sustainability As consumer demand for sustainable products evolves, we remain  committed to supplying coffee and tea that restore nature and  support communities. Within the manufacturing space this means  operating in ways that minimize"
"environmental harm while maximizing  economic opportunities for coffee supply chain participants. We  uphold this responsibility in three key areas:  1) Empowering our teams to lead in sustainable operations. For example,  our manufacturing team identified the opportunity to sell specific  waste streams to help other companies with their up-cycling  efforts. The team reduced their facility's landfill volume and put the  new revenue stream toward meeting needs in coffee producing  communities."
"This program expanded to multiple facilities in 2024  and has sponsored projects such as water well installations and coffee  harvest day care centers.   2) Doing a lot with a little. This is what farmers do, and in our experience,  they have the most innovative mindset in the supply chain. At  Westrock Coffee, we are following their lead to improve our product,  streamline our processes, and increase efficiencies to reduce our  environmental footprint. 3) Making data-driven manufacturing"
"decisions. We’re investing in data  systems that give us insights into the most relevant goals for our  facilities and communities. This allows us to correlate manufacturing  changes to spikes in Scope I and II emissions activities (which were  21,260 MTCO2e and 7,386 MTCO2e , respectively, in 2024) and create  real-time solutions.  In 2025, production will begin in another new facility, and we are  implementing sustainable manufacturing best practices from the  outset to embed our mission to"
"fuel purpose and prosperity into every  step of the manufacturing process.  1B+ gallons of water recycling  capacity (annualized)  40%+ less energy used in  roasting processes 75%  of equipment with  energy efficiency  control systems Tracy Cagel, Tamyka Hall, Lizeth Gonzalez, Thad Chrismon → Concord, NC → Westrock Coffee team members SHAY ZOHAR EVP of Special Projects → Little Rock, AR HEAR FROM US “We took advantage of every opportunity to  design sustainability into the core of our new"
"facility, but we won’t stop there. In the coming  years, we will drive product, facility and circular  economy innovations that push our  finished product from responsible,  to sustainable, to regenerative.” ONNIE SMITH Roaster Operator → Concord, NC HEAR FROM US “Since I started at the company in 2000, a lot has  changed, but manufacturing has continued to be  fast-paced. More customers want sustainable  coffee, and we develop new recipes to match  their needs. Personally, I work hard to be in"
"tune  with the roasters to maximize every roast and  to reduce waste. As a facility, we collect every  burlap bag that comes in and sell them to  fund projects in countries we  source coffee from. I care  about the company and  want to see it succeed.” 10% less water used to  make products4 66% of manufacturing  waste recycled,  composted,   or converted   to energy 4 1,100+ people impacted by employee-driven  projects through waste sales 1 7   /   2 0 2 4  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y  P R O G R"
"E S S 1 6  /  W E S T R O C K  C O F F E E  C O M P A N Y  SOIL HEALTH WATER HEALTH Beatriz Vélez and Lina Gaviria  with their permanent employees  → Concordia, Colombia → Raíz  Sustainability™ farmer partners WOMEN’S BUSINESS  & MARKETING  NETWORK WOMEN’S  EMPOWERMENT Just like our customers are unique, the ways in which they  want to go beyond simply purchasing sustainable coffee  to supporting farmers is unique. That’s where we come in.  Westrock Coffee aims to be the bridge our customers"
"need  to connect back to the farmers who supply their coffee.  Westrock Coffee has connected four unique customer  projects to one farmer group in a long-term, dedicated supply  chain. This has facilitated targeted investments that benefit  the farmers who grow their coffee in areas that are important  to each customer. Case Study: Creating Valuable  Connections in Colombia From Farmers to Customers  It’s About People Sustainability is the foundation upon which Westrock Coffee  has established"
"surety of supply. In moments of regulatory and  market uncertainty, Westrock Coffee is positioned to deliver  the coffee, tea, and beverage products customers need, with  the added assurance that it will be sourced and manufactured  responsibly as an inherent part of our service model. Moreover,  and in all market conditions, we customize our customers’ sourcing  experience through authentic farmer connections and sustainable  sourcing methods that are uniquely in sync with their brands.  We"
"specialize in this because we are convinced that transparent  business, economic empowerment, and regenerative agribusiness  from farm to finished product is good for people.  MELISSA MACKAY SVP of Marketing and Insights   → Little Rock, AR Our sustainability journey is more than a  commitment—it's a bridge connecting farmers,  brands, and consumers through personalized  insights. Rooted in our deep understanding of  origin, we actively shape sustainable landscapes  and partnerships. Our unique"
"perspective  creates valuable insights that empower our  network to build product platforms  grounded in resilient, responsible,  and innovative supply  chains—benefiting   everyone from the field  to the marketplace. HEAR FROM US HOW IT WORKS Westrock Coffee aligns our customers’ brand stories,  ESG goals, and product priorities with supply chain  partners who have the same ethos and the ability to  grow with the customer.  For instance, a long-time, blue-chip coffee customer  wanted to make a"
"measurable impact by piloting supply  chain services in a region they had been purchasing  digitally traceable coffee from for several years.  Westrock Coffee leveraged our insights on these  farms to develop a pilot project that met farmer needs  and reported progress and coffee purchases to our  customer. In 2024, we launched services for farmers  whose coffee transactions are digitally linked directly  to our customer. This type of dedicated, measured  investment is how sustainable supply"
"chains and farm  resiliency are established. Martiniano Joven → Huila, Colombia  → Raíz Sustainability™  farmer partner 120 farmers 323 farm visits in  2024 7 supply chain   partners 4 customer projects  with brand-specific  focus 1 farmer group 9 years in   Raíz Sustainability™ 28.9M pounds purchased 1 9   /   2 0 2 4  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y  P R O G R E S S 1 8  /  W E S T R O C K  C O F F E E  C O M P A N Y  Glossary FARMER ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT, OPPORTUNITIES,   AND WELL-BEING: Farmers"
"have access to markets that consistently  pay them above a reasonable cost of production, incentivize ethical  and sustainable farm practices, and whose business generates  enough value for farm growth. SUSTAINABLE: Partners are resilient; their work helps the people  around them; and they are doing no harm to ecosystems.  REGENERATIVE: Our ultimate goal; these partners are thriving,  their work helps the people around them, and they are restoring the  ecosystem they’re working in.  RESILIENCE:"
"The ability to maintain profitable and ethical business  amidst market-, climate-, and community-based variables.  RESPONSIBLE: A characteristic of farms and suppliers that are doing  no harm to people or ecosystems. This is our baseline requirement of  our partners and promise to our customers.  TRACEABILITY: An accountability tool. Westrock Coffee uses  traceability to ensure supply partners and the coffee we purchase  from them are meeting our ethical requirements. Depth of traceability"
"depends on customer preference and the type of supply chain their  product comes from. TRANSPARENCY: The relationship privilege built with repeatable  business and demonstrated commitment to sustainable partnerships.  Appendix 1As a part of Westrock Coffee’s Responsible Sourcing Policy  compliance assessments, suppliers complete self-assessments  and submit documents to provide evidence for their responses.  These submissions are then 3rd party audited, and auditors pinpoint  potential supply"
"chain risks. In 2024, 91 potential risks were cleared  through the RSP remediation process, providing Westrock Coffee and  our customers assurance that their coffee is sourced responsibly. 2 Of the facility goals set in the 2023 Sustainability Report, three were  met and three were not. The waste and electricity goals reflected here  are aggregations of facilities with commercialized products in 2024.  Charts reflect weighted average performance of these facilities.  3 213 MT less waste to"
"landfill 4 The data reflected here does not include waste or water from  Westrock Coffee’s new Conway facilities as they were not yet fully  operational and are not reflective of actual production usage. Keori Guinn, a Westrock Coffee employee on a trip to Rwanda 2 1   /   2 0 2 4  S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y  P R O G R E S S 2 0  /  W E S T R O C K  C O F F E E  C O M P A N Y  4009 N. RODNEY PARHAM RD. 4TH FLOOR LITTLE ROCK, AR 72212 WESTROCKCOFFEE.COM TM & © Westrock Coffee 2025  All rights"
"reserved"
