2024 Sustainable in a
Generation Report
The world we want tomorrow
starts with how we do business today

Table of
Contents

Nourishing Wellbeing

33

Enabling Health and Wellbeing

35

Responsible Marketing

36

10

Ensuring Safe Food

36

Climate Action

13

Advancing Pet Welfare

37

Land Use and Deforestation

18

Water Stewardship

21

Protecting Our Ocean Ecosystems

24

Rethinking Packaging

25

Thriving People

27

Our Associates

Letter from the CEO

3

About Mars

5

Healthy Planet

Governance

39

Integration of the Mars Five Principles

40

Governance Structure and
Leadership Oversight

40

Ethics and Compliance

41

29

Reporting, Traceability and
Performance Metrics

42

Advancing Respect for Human Rights

29

About this Report

43

Increasing Income of Smallholder Farmers

30

Unlocking Opportunities for All

32

Appendix
Performance Data Tables

44
44

2

Business makes much possible. It is an essential part of
our communities and countries. It is the lifeblood of
our economies and societies. I’m proud to lead an evergrowing and changing Mars, Incorporated. We are now
approaching $55 billion, employing 150,000 Associates
with our diversified portfolio of products and
services enjoyed by hundreds of millions of people
across nearly 170 countries.
Resilient businesses that endure the test of time are those
who invest to continuously adapt, while being mindful of
their impact on both people and planet. At Mars, we take
this responsibility seriously and we believe we don’t have
to sacrifice performance to operate sustainably. This report
demonstrates how this is both true and makes good
business sense.

In 2018, the Mars family established the Mars Compass,
a set of seven shareholder objectives to guide the Mars
Board and Management. Three of these objectives are
focused on medium and long-term financial health and
four on having a positive societal impact and being a
trusted partner. This approach is embedded into how we
do business: it is how we talk about our business with our
owners, from our medium-term plans (which we call
Integrated Value Creation Plans) to our Annual Plans and
from our pay philosophy to our hiring and development.
In fact, in 2024, we extended to approximately 2,000
Mars leaders long-term compensation tied to greenhouse
gas (GHG) metrics.
Our ability to take a broad and truly long-term view is what
makes being a family-owned, privately held business, so
unique, giving us a much wider definition of success. Of
course, we must deliver strong financial performance every
year to be able to continue to invest in people and planet,
but our focus is also on the impact we are having and the
world we are building for future generations.

from carbon emissions is at the heart of our Net Zero
ambition by 2050.
I am particularly encouraged by our ongoing work enabling
farmers to become more resilient and helping them to
future-proof their businesses. In fact, in 2024, we funded
more than 60 projects incorporating climate-smart
agriculture² practices that are helping us to address the
biggest share of our GHG footprint – the ingredients we
buy to make our products. These projects currently cover 13
crops in 29 countries. From dairy farmers in New Zealand to
wheat farmers in the U.S. or cocoa farmers in Cote d’Ivoire,
we are working in partnership across the globe, investing
millions of dollars and helping farmers reduce emissions,
regenerate soils and ultimately, making their businesses
and our supply chains more resilient.
This includes a small (<0.15%) contribution from soil carbon removals
through climate-smart agriculture projects. Each reference to our 2015
baseline in this report refers to our restated baseline.
1

In 2024, we delivered another 1.9% of absolute GHG
reductions, with an overall absolute reduction now
standing at 16.4% across the full value chain and against
a baseline of 2015.1 During the same period, our business
grew by 69%. Our ability to continue to decouple growth

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Letter from
the CEO

We are fortunate that clarity of purpose and vision is
something our owners – the Mars family – have provided
for decades. In 1947, Forrest Mars, Sr. articulated with such
foresight that for Mars to thrive, it had to create a
“Mutuality of Benefits” to a list of what today would be
called stakeholders. This way of thinking has prevailed.

Unless expressly noted otherwise, all references to "climate-smart"
agriculture or practices made in this report refer to practices that support
agricultural transformation to reduce and remove GHG emissions; regenerate
soils and support biodiversity; and/or adapt to increasing climate hazards.
2

3

In 2021, Mars launched Sheba Hope Grows™, one of the
world’s largest coral reef restoration programs. In 2024, we
completed over 20 new restoration projects and supported
the planting of more than 80,000 corals. Through these
initiatives, we aim to protect both terrestrial and aquatic
ecosystems, supporting the sustainability of vital water
resources for future generations.
In our direct operations, we have made a rapid transition
to renewable electricity by enhancing energy efficiency
initiatives and advancing thermal energy programs. We
are well on track, sourcing 58% of renewable electricity3 in
support of our goal to run all our direct operations solely
on renewable energy by 2040.

Challenges clearly remain – and progress will not always
happen in a straight line – but with clear intent and
continuous investment in partnerships and innovation,
the impact outlined in this report shows that it is possible
for a business to become more sustainable and continue
to grow.
The power of these efforts remains in our relentless focus
on making progress through tangible actions and so much
of it is down to the varied and inspiring achievements of
our incredible Associates, who in collaboration with our
suppliers, customers and partners are making a positive
difference every day.
Looking ahead, there will be setbacks – and we must
be unafraid to say so – but we will keep bringing humility
to all our work and stay focused on making progress.
We remain committed to trying and scaling new
solutions, unlocking growth opportunities while
continuing to improve the lives of people, pets and
communities and reducing the impact we have on
the planet by helping everyone thrive.

Poul Weihrauch
This figure includes data from all manufacturing sites across our Food,
Petcare, and Snacking businesses (with the exception of Hotel Chocolat)
as well as our Veterinary Health sites in U.K., and U.S., based on data we
were able to verify as of May 2025.
3

CEO & Office of the President,
Mars, Incorporated

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

By the end of 2024 we had reached more than 850,000
people across our value chain through our supplier and
origin program since it began in 2017. This included farmer
programs designed to improve living incomes like the
Shubh Mint program which has positively impacted
24,000 farming families, with participating farmers nearly
doubling their mint income. This continues to be a
complex and challenging area, but we remain committed
to the journey and are constantly reassessing our role and
how best to unlock lasting impact.

4

Our Business
Mars has built a legacy of long-term success rooted in
purpose-driven and principles-led business practices.
For us, success isn’t only about financial performance
– it’s about achieving sustainable, high-quality growth
while seeking to make a meaningful impact on society
and fostering trusted partnerships worldwide to catalyze
broader impact.
Guided by our Five Principles, we take a results-focused
approach to decision-making, with the goal that progress
is measured by real outcomes rather than promises. Our
commitment to responsible business practices affects
not only our operations but also how we engage with
stakeholders, from suppliers and retailers to NGOs/civil
societies, consumers and customers.

150K

200+

140+

Associates around the world

physical retail locations

factories and R&D centers

70+

3,600+

~170

markets in which Mars sites
are operating

sites worldwide,
including veterinary
clinics in 20+ countries

markets enjoy Mars
products and services generating
approximately $55B in net sales

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

ABOUT MARS

5

Our work on emissions reduction, climate-smart agriculture,
circular packaging, advancing respect for human rights,
increasing pet welfare and supply chain resilience
demonstrates our belief that sustainability is not just an
ethical commitment – it can be a competitive advantage that
enhances long-term business value, secures supply chains
and drives long-term financial resilience.
We recognize that working to help solve some of the
world’s most complex challenges – climate action and
supply chain resiliency and respecting human rights –
requires deep collaboration, including government, civil
society and industry-wide action. That’s why we regularly
partner with governments, NGOs, industry leaders and
communities to help drive systemic change. By embedding
sustainability into our strategy, investing in innovation
and expanding partnerships, we are not only responding
to global challenges – we are seeking to help shape
industries, influence policy and realize our vision of
making a meaningful contribution toward a more
sustainable, resilient future.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Across our business – from our well-known
brands like Royal Canin®, PEDIGREE®, M&M’S®
and Ben’s Original™ to our veterinary service
providers – sustainability is integrated into
our strategy, execution plans, leadership
incentives and training, reinforcing our belief
that business success and environmental and
social responsibility go hand in hand.

6

Frank C. Mars made the first
Mars candies in his Tacoma,
WA, kitchen

Global HQ in
McLean, VA

Our Billion Dollar Brands

Private, Familyowned company

Our value chain is extensive and
complex, touching the lives of millions
of people globally.
It often begins with our suppliers sourcing raw materials
from farmers, extends through our manufacturing and
service processes and culminates with the distribution of
our products and services to consumers worldwide.

850K+

people’s lives were impacted
across our value chain,
including 160,000+ farmers
reached by programs
designed to increase farmer
incomes, by the end of 2024

3.5B

healthy meals were proudly
delivered in 2024, including
309 million servings of
fiber and 372 million
servings of vegetables,
all while reducing sodium
by 5% (compared to a
2019 baseline)

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

1911

A Complex and
Highly Productive
Value Chain

7

Building a Better Future
Through Business
At Mars, we believe that the choices we make today
shape the world we want tomorrow. Since launching our
Sustainable in a Generation Plan in 2017, we have focused
on creating a healthier planet, empowering people
and pet owners and fostering a more inclusive society.
Our sustainability approach is rooted in the concepts of
accountability, action and responsible growth, helping
us drive progress not just through words, but
measurable impact.
To achieve this, we continuously evaluate our efforts, forge
strong partnerships and balance financial success with

Investing in Sustainability
Our vision for sustainability means investing in both
people and the planet. That’s why we have committed
billions to advance our Sustainable in a Generation Plan.
This financial commitment allows us to drive growth while
tackling critical global challenges, helping to ensure a
more sustainable future for all. Investing in sustainability
is good for business because of its importance to our
consumers, Associates and shareholders, and because
of the role it can play in creating a resilient business for
generations to come.

Tracking Our Sustainability Progress
Creating and sustaining value for future generations
requires strong governance, principled decision-making
and a commitment to measurable impact. At Mars, we
use the Mars Compass as a practical framework to translate
our purpose into action – ensuring that we track both
financial and non-financial key performance indicators to
drive informed, long-term decisions.
The Mars Compass consists of four quadrants that were
designed to reinforce one another, guiding our strategy
and measuring progress for both immediate priorities
and long-term goals. Notably, approximately 2,000 Mars
leaders’ long-term compensation is tied to non-financial
sustainability metrics, reinforcing our commitment to
embedding sustainability and responsible business
practices at the most senior levels of the organization.

The Mars Compass

STRONG
FINANCIAL
PERFORMANCE

QUALITY
GROWTH

The world we
want tomorrow
starts with how we
do business today

TRUSTED
PARTNER

POSITIVE
SOCIETAL
IMPACT

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Our Approach
to Sustainability

social and environmental responsibility. Guided by our Five
Principles – Quality, Responsibility, Mutuality, Efficiency
and Freedom – we are committed to ensuring sustainability
remains a fundamental part of how we do business.

8

By integrating sustainability into everything we do,
Mars is doing its part to create a healthier planet,
thriving communities and a better future for generations
to come. We focus on three interconnected pillars:

Healthy Planet
We are committed to reducing our environmental footprint by reducing emissions across our full value
chain, addressing land use, maintaining water stewardship and improving packaging sustainability.
We have already cut GHG emissions by 16.4% across our value chain since 2015, reduced the gap to
sustainable water use by 36% in our value chain,4 held our land footprint associated with our value
chain flat and ensured 64.1% of our consumer-facing packaging5 is designed to be reusable, recyclable
or compostable – all while growing our business by 69%.

Thriving People
Mars is committed to respecting human rights throughout our value chain, starting with areas
where we have the most influence, and where we can have the greatest impact on people’s rights,
opportunities and livelihoods via multiple programs and with key partners. We have supported
over 160,000 farmers reached by programs designed to increase farmer incomes and empowered
over 115,000 women across our supply chain, helping to build more resilient communities.

Nourishing Wellbeing
Mars is committed to marketing our brands responsibly and ethically, and as such, we adhere to
marketing guidelines, including our Mars Global Marketing Code for Human Food. Our latest results
highlight our compliance performance, with 99.4% adherence to media content standards and 99.7%
compliance with media placement standards, exceeding our targets of 95% and 97%,6 respectively. In
addition to marketing responsibly, we prioritize the health and wellbeing of people and pets through
our products and initiatives. With 3.5 billion healthy meals delivered, we work towards our goal of
providing more people around the world with access to healthy meals. Through our businesses and
brands, we are working to advance pet care through nutrition, diagnostics and veterinary care.
4

This does not include our own operations.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Sustainable in a
Generation Pillars

By weight, excluding tertiary and transport packaging. Our reportable data includes the consumer-packaged goods
within our Mars Snacking, Mars Petcare and Mars Food & Nutrition Segments. The Mars Science and Diagnostics and the
Mars Vet Health businesses are not in scope. For data reported as of Year End 2024, acquisitions not reported in 2023
such as Hotel Chocolat, Kevins and Champion Petfoods are now included.
5

6

Compliance data in reference to 2023 performance. Please note media data is generally subject to a one-year delay
due to the reporting timelines of the U.S. TV market, with broadcast data specifically experiencing a six-month lag.

9

At Mars, we believe that a
healthy planet is fundamental
to a thriving future.
Our commitment to environmental
stewardship is embedded across our
business, from our supply chains to
our products and services. In 2024,
we continued our progress toward
the sustainability targets outlined in
our Sustainable in a Generation Plan,
focusing on climate action, responsible
land use, water stewardship and
more circular packaging solutions.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Healthy
Planet

10

TARGET

2024 PROGRESS

Reduce the total GHG emissions
across our value chain by 50% by
2030 and achieve Net Zero by
2050 compared to 2015.

16.4%

reduction in GHGs across our full
value chain from our 2015 baseline.

Source 100% Renewable
Electricity by 2040.

58%

of the electricity we source is
renewable as we rapidly transition
towards cleaner energy.

Hold flat the total land area
associated with our value chain.

We continue to deliver our goal of holding
our land footprint flat compared to our 2015
baseline, supporting our goal that our supply
chain does not indirectly contribute to
additional deforestation or land conversion.

“
Sustainability at Mars is about ensuring we have
an increasingly positive impact on society in
the areas we are most material to and that are
most material to us. Our approach is to embed
considerations of our societal impact into our
business decisions. In 2024, we continued to
decouple GHG emissions from growth and to
scale climate-smart agriculture across our value
chain. Challenges remain, and progress will not
happen in a straight line, but with innovation
and collaboration, we’re proving that growth
and sustainability can go hand in hand.”

Alastair Child
Chief Sustainability Officer, Mars, Incorporated

Reduce the gap to sustainable water
usage in the long term and reduce
by 50% from 2015 to 2025.

36%

reduction in the gap to sustainable water
use in our value chain since 2015 baseline.
Expanded water efficiency projects,
particularly in rice and mint.

Develop packaging that’s
reusable, recyclable or
compostable, and increase our
use of post-consumer recycled
content in our plastic.

64.1%

of our consumer-facing packaging is
designed to be reusable, recyclable
or compostable.

14K+

tons of recycled content incorporated,
which equates to 7% of weight in metric
tons of post-consumer recycled resin
in our portfolio.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

2024 Healthy Planet Highlights

11

Climate Action

Water Stewardship

We continue to make steady progress towards achieving
Net Zero emissions by 2050. Our Net Zero Roadmap
outlines our approach and the strategies that guide our
journey, which includes, amongst other levers, improving
energy efficiency, transitioning to renewable energy and
implementing climate-smart agriculture. This year, in
partnership with several of our suppliers, we emphasized
scaling climate-smart agriculture practices that not only
reduce emissions but also remove carbon from
the atmosphere.

With water stress impacting many of our sourcing
regions, we are advancing collaborative solutions that
enhance water conservation and efficiency throughout
both agriculture and operations by measuring, managing
and reducing water use in high-stress agricultural
regions. Our Water Stewardship strategy is focused on
working to protect and improve water availability and
reduce water use throughout our value chain, reinforcing
our commitment to sustainable food production.

Land Use and Deforestation

Rethinking Packaging

Business operations impact the environment, so we take
proactive action to protect natural ecosystems. Our Land
Use Position Statement commits us to maintaining a
stable land footprint in our fast-moving consumer goods
business, ensuring our supply chain does not contribute
to agricultural expansion. Making progress toward a
deforestation-free supply chain remains a key priority,
with efforts focused on five high-impact raw materials:
beef, cocoa, palm oil, pulp and paper and soy.

At Mars, we are working to help create a world where
packaging never becomes waste. With hundreds of
millions invested so far, we are driving change through
reducing packaging, redesigning our portfolio to fit with
the recycling infrastructure that either exists today or
is likely to exist in the near future in the markets where
we operate, and advocating for systemic changes in
recycling infrastructure.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Our Healthy
Planet Strategy

12

Our Roadmap to Achieving Net Zero by 20507

120%

2015 to 2024

2024 to 2030

2030 to 2050

2050 and Beyond

Since launching our full value chain
work, we set goals and peaked
emissions one year later. This not only
decoupled financial growth from
emissions, but resulted in the trajectory
of each moving in opposite directions
(and the right way). As some strategies
take time to deliver, our progress will
not always be even but – the multiyear trend of emissions reductions
will continue toward our target.

Our Net Zero Roadmap is
about the strategies that we
feel will take us to the -50%
GHG emissions by 2030, and
the changes to our business
operating model as we
aim to make that not only
possible, but affordable.
This level of progress
requires changes across our
entire value chain. This will
not be easy, but we have the

As things stand today, we believe
that the hardest part of the value
chain reductions on the way to
Net Zero will be the last 30%.
Today, there are significant barriers
to solving for those emissions –
cost, feasibility and regulatory,
among others. But between now
and 2030, we are investing and
partnering to find better solutions
that will allow us to continue the
march to Net Zero. We anticipate

As much potential as there is to
reduce emissions in our value chain,
it is widely recognized by standards
such as SBTi that there will be a
small fraction of residual emissions
that can’t be solved for in our value
chain. The balance of SBTi energy
and industrial and FLAG sector longterm targets for Mars portfolio, is an
overall 80% reduction. For that small
remaining fraction we will use highquality carbon removal credits to “net”

ideas and resources, and the
commitment to pursue this
ambition. The reductions
are built into our business
planning and the rolling
three-year plans that each of
our business Segments set.

breakthroughs and backsteps alike.
As new climate science emerges,
we will set future five-year interim
targets (e.g., 2035) accordingly.

Set full
value
chain GHG
reduction
target

Reached
peak
emissions

Business
as usual

those emissions down to Net Zero.

100%
80%

85.5%
of 2015
baseline

60%

83.6%
of 2015
baseline

40%

Each year, a baseline restatement is
performed, which results in adjustments
to historical disclosures. This process is a
positive reflection of our commitment to
continually improve our data accuracy and
ensuring that, for example, acquisitions
are promptly integrated into our results.
By regularly updating and refining our
historical data, we strive to provide the
most accurate and comprehensive view of
our performance.
7

50%
of 2015
baseline

20%

20%

Net Zero Roadmap

of 2015 baseline

0%
2015

2017 2018

2023 2024

2030

2050

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Climate Action

13

Our roadmap is a blueprint for transforming our
business. It identifies the critical strategies and
operational shifts required to make emissions
reductions not just possible, but affordable and scalable.
By the end of 2024, we had achieved a 16.4% reduction
in total emissions compared to 2015. This includes a
33.5% decrease in Scope 1 and 2 emissions, keeping us
on track to meet our 2025 target of a 42% reduction.
Our achievements across Scopes 1, 2 and 3 have been
largely driven by expanded climate-smart agriculture
and deforestation-free supply chain efforts in our
value chain alongside our rapid transition to renewable
electricity, enhanced energy efficiency initiatives and
advanced thermal energy programs in our direct
operations. 2024 is our first year of reporting carbon
removals from climate-smart agriculture projects in
our value chain, which removed 41,833 tons of CO2e.
In 2024, we also made significant enhancements to
our climate accounting, refining our methodology
to provide more accurate, transparent and inclusive
emissions reporting, following our Baseline
Restatement Policy. This led to a restatement of our
metrics from 2015 to 2023, please see the Appendix
for our GHG metrics.

Decoupling Growth from Carbon Emissions

3% 1%

Mars is proving that business growth and emissions reduction are not necessarily mutually exclusive. Despite a
69% increase in sales since 2015, we have successfully cut emissions by more than 16% over the same period.
Our ability to continue to decouple economic growth from our carbon footprint demonstrates the impact
of our Net Zero Roadmap and our commitment to sustainable business practices.

180%
2024 GHG Emissions

27.92 MtCO2e

160%
2018:
Peak emissions
at 107% of baseline

140%
120%

96%

100%
80%

2015

2016

2017

2018

Mars, Incorporated
sales

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

2024

Scope 1
Scope 2

Mars, Incorporated
GHG emissions

Scope 3

The Five Fundamentals of Net Zero
The Mars Net Zero Roadmap is built on five fundamental elements to ensure meaningful, long-term progress:
1
Include all emissions
across the value chain
– From raw material
sourcing to production,
logistics and product use,
we consider all direct and
indirect emissions.

2
Prioritize performance
over promises – We focus
on measurable reductions,
not just pledges, by
taking action to eliminate
emissions at the source.

3
Mark progress with
milestones – We set clear,
short-term goals, such
as our Science-Based
Target aiming to reduce
emissions 50% by 2030,
to maintain accountability
and drive meaningful
near-term progress.

4
Make decisions today
that shape tomorrow –
We recognize that
business and infrastructure
decisions have longterm consequences,
helping to ensure that our
investments align with a
low-carbon future.

5
Cover residual emissions
with high-quality carbon
removal credits by 2050 –
While our primary focus is
on eliminating emissions,
we will rely on highquality carbon removals
to neutralize any residual
footprint.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

The climate crisis demands decisive and immediate
action. At Mars, we are committed to driving
meaningful change across our value chain, and
we leveraged years of experience in reducing
GHG emissions to develop a bold yet achievable
strategy – our Net Zero Roadmap. This pragmatic
yet ambitious plan lays out how we aim to cut
emissions by 50% by 2030 compared to our
2015 baseline, and achieve Net Zero by 2050.

14

At Mars, we are committed to transforming our operations to drive sustainability at scale. From manufacturing to
logistics, we are implementing innovative solutions that reduce emissions, optimize energy use and create long-term
efficiencies. Whether through renewable thermal energy at our production sites or decarbonizing transportation
networks, we are taking bold steps to minimize our environmental footprint while maintaining business resilience.

Renewable Energy

Renewable Thermal

We are rapidly transitioning towards renewable
electricity sources to accelerate emissions reduction.
Looking to 2030, efficiency improvements and
renewable electricity will continue to play pivotal
roles. Today, we are sourcing 58% renewable
electricity in support of our commitment to source
100% renewable energy by 2040 in our own
operations. Bringing this commitment to life are
several projects around the world.

Mars is making significant strides in decarbonizing
our thermal energy usage through renewable solutions
across our global operations. To further advance our
renewable thermal transition, we have developed
a detailed roadmap for our Petcare Segment. This
strategy outlines technical solutions tailored to local
risks and opportunities, enabling planned reductions
in Scope 1 emissions through a mix of concentrated
solar power, thermal energy storage, biomethane
and biomass.
Additionally, our M&M’S® factory in Haguenau, France,
has been operating fossil fuel-free since September
2024 by purchasing renewable biomethane certificates
in addition to the existing green steam energy to fully
replace its natural gas usage. In India, our Pune site has
transitioned to an electric peanut fryer, eliminating the
need for fossil fuel-based equipment. These initiatives
collectively reflect our commitment to accelerating
the shift toward renewable thermal energy, reducing
emissions and fostering a more sustainable future.

Mars Wodonga’s 100%
Renewable Energy Transition
In 2024, we announced that by 2026, Mars Wodonga –
which produces pet food brands including PEDIGREE®
and WHISKAS® – is set to become Australia’s first
large-scale steam-based manufacturing site powered
entirely by renewable energy. In collaboration with the
Australia Renewable Energy Agency (ARENA) with a
$17.2 million grant, the project will deploy a Parabolic
Trough Concentrated Solar Thermal system. This system
will have a peak capacity of approximately 18 megawatt
(thermal) and 150 megawatt-hour steam thermal energy
storage to be used to provide overnight steam delivery
with 10 hours of thermal storage to replace natural gas
usage. Additionally, Electric Thermal Energy Storage
will enable the use of off-peak renewable electricity
for steam production. These innovations position Mars
Wodonga as a leader in sustainable manufacturing,
significantly reducing emissions and advancing our
commitment to Net Zero by 2050.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Enhancing Sustainability in Our Operations

15

What is climate-smart agriculture
at Mars?
Agricultural transformation to reduce and
remove GHG emissions, regenerate soils and
support biodiversity and/or adapt to increasing
climate hazards.

Agricultural emissions remain one of our most
significant challenges. In 2024, we supported
more than 60 projects incorporating climate-smart
agricultural practices, defined in this context as
practices that led to the reduction of GHG emissions,
regenerated soil, or both, across our supply chain.
By implementing alternative water management
techniques in rice farming and improved manure
management in livestock, we are driving meaningful
reductions in agricultural GHG emissions. By
enhancing soil health, improving water quality and
supporting resilient supply chains, climate-smart
agriculture aligns with broader sustainability strategy
and climate goals at Mars. This year, our climatesmart agriculture projects delivered both carbon
removals and emission reductions; learn more about
our approach to the reporting of removals in our
value chain in the Appendix.

Partnering to accelerate and scale
climate-smart agriculture
We’re dedicated to fostering a more sustainable agricultural
model by supporting the transition to climate-smart practices
that enhance soil health, biodiversity and climate resilience.
Recognizing that sustainable agriculture is vital to our supply
chain, in 2024, Mars announced collaborations across Europe
and North America to help farmers in our pet food supply
chains to explore and adopt these innovative techniques.
In Europe, collaborations with suppliers including Cargill
and ADM, and technical experts Biospheres, Horta, Agreena
and Soil Capital, are engaging farmers in Poland, Hungary
and the U.K. with financial and practical support to adopt
regenerative agriculture practices, including crop rotation,
minimal tillage and cover cropping.
In North America, we are engaging with agribusiness
companies and solution providers – including ADM, The
Andersons, Inc., Riceland Foods and the Soil and Water
Outcomes Fund – through our pet food brands like Royal
Canin®, PEDIGREE® and IAMS™ in the U.S. and Canada. These
partnerships encourage wheat, corn and rice farmers in
select regions to adopt regenerative agriculture practices.
Additionally, the NUTRO™ GREATER GROUND™ program is
partnering with Healthy Food Ingredients to assess soil health

across its barley grower network. The program also works with
Anchor Ingredients to advance regenerative practices and
grower education for peas, oats and flax sourced from the
Upper Midwest.
Farmers face ongoing challenges from climate variability and
environmental pressures. Our goal is to provide practical
support – through technical guidance, resource sharing and
pilot programs – to help farmers transition toward practices
that may offer environmental and economic benefits.

Collaborating to Develop LowerCarbon Pet Food Ingredients
Our Mars Petcare teams are focused on driving
innovation that supports both pet nutrition and
environmental responsibility. In collaboration with
Big Idea Ventures, AAK and Bühler, we launched the
Next Generation Pet Food Program, which brings
together startups and industry leaders to explore new
and novel ingredients. This initiative fosters innovative
solutions, such as alternative proteins and enhanced
processing methods that can help to lower the GHG
impact of our products.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Addressing the
Intersection of Climate
and Agriculture

16

In 2024, Mars launched the Moo’ving Dairy Forward
Sustainable Dairy Plan, committing $47 million over
three years to help reduce GHG emissions in our dairy
supply chain.
Additionally, the Mars-Friesland Campina Sustainable
Dairy Development Program is working with select farms
in the Netherlands to pilot and refine emissions-reducing
technologies. In partnership with Mars, the DMK Group
tests scalable solutions for carbon-neutral dairy production
on the cooperative’s Net-Zero Dairy Pilot Farms in Germany.

Decarbonizing Logistics
Mars is also investing in feed innovation, trialing methanereducing additives like the seaweed-based Asparagopsis
with Fonterra in Tasmania. These efforts are consistent
with a broader industry shift toward adopting agricultural
practices with reduced GHG emissions. By collaborating
with farmers, suppliers and researchers, Mars is not only
aiming to reduce our environmental footprint but also to
drive meaningful, positive change in the dairy sector.

Mars launched the Sustainable in a Generation
for Logistics (SiG4L) program to move towards
decarbonizing transportation across our supply chain
by optimizing logistics networks, adopting alternative
fuels and shifting freight to lower-emission transport
modes like rail and sea. A key milestone was the SiG4L
Playbook, a global resource providing best practices
and strategies to reduce emissions and improve
freight efficiency, with pilot programs showing
potential for significant carbon reduction.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Mars Moo’ving Dairy Forward
Sustainable Dairy Plan

17

Redesigning Supply Chains
to Address Deforestation

Beef

We aim to hold our total land footprint flat, so that our
value chain does not indirectly contribute to further
agricultural expansion. We are proud to remain flat with
our 2015 baseline, reinforcing our commitment to
responsible land stewardship.

Our commitment to stop deforestation and conversion
in Mars beef supply chains in Latin America is focused
on the direct cattle suppliers in our supply chain there.
Building upon this commitment, we have joined forces with
IDH to expand its Sustainable Production of Calves Program
in Brazil. This initiative aims to support small cattle ranchers
in priority municipalities within our indirect beef supply
chain in Mato Grosso, a priority state for our beef supply
chain. Through the program, small ranchers receive training
and technical assistance in areas such as environmental
regularization, soil health, water, pasture management and
animal welfare, as well as support to access markets for
their products. The program also aims to reduce carbon
emissions associated with beef production and increase
cattle traceability, encouraging deforestation-free
supply chains.

Land use change is the second biggest driver of our value
chain emissions, with deforestation and the conversion of
natural ecosystems posing major threats to both nature
and society. At Mars, we are working to redesign our supply
chains to combat deforestation and ecosystem conversion
across five raw materials identified as having the greatest
impact: beef, cocoa, palm oil, pulp and paper and soy.
Our “map, manage and monitor” approach is central to
this effort, leveraging geospatial satellite data to track
our progress and assess emission benefits. This approach
enables us to trace supply chains, assess deforestation
and conversion risks at the relevant scale, engage with
suppliers to support alignment with our requirements,
evaluate performance and scan for ongoing supply chain
compliance. Our leadership in this space was ranked #6
overall in the 2024 Forest 500, a U.K.-based nonprofit that
assesses businesses on the strength and implementation of
their commitments on deforestation, conversion of natural
ecosystems and associated human rights.

Supporting Small-Scale Ranchers for a DeforestationFree Supply Chain

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Land Use and
Deforestation

18

Palm Oil

Restoring Landscapes & Strengthening Communities

Advancing Agroforestry & Conservation in Indonesia

Mars requires its cocoa ingredient suppliers to verify that
all cocoa sourced through the Responsibly Sourced Cocoa
Program has not been produced on land that has been
subject to deforestation or conversion of natural ecosystems.
Mars cocoa ingredient suppliers must polygon map the
perimeters of the participating cocoa farms, check the
boundaries against historic forestry data and conduct any
needed on-site inspections.

In 2020, Mars announced that our Palm Positive Plan
had delivered a significant milestone – a deforestationfree palm oil supply chain covering all palm and palm
kernel oil that Mars buys directly.8 This milestone is based
on mapping, managing and monitoring of our supply
chain through partnerships with Earthworm Foundation
and Earthqualizer.

We remain committed to collaborating with supply chain
partners, governments, industry players and civil society
stakeholders to help combat deforestation and conversion
of natural eco-systems.
Through the RESTORE project, a USAID-backed initiative
led by the Rainforest Alliance and Olam Food Ingredients,
Mars is trying to help efforts to support sustainable cocoa
farming while enhancing forest conservation and land
restoration. This program increases tree cover, establishes
landscape management boards, promotes climate-smart
practices and diversifies income opportunities for cocoagrowing communities.

8

Through radical simplification, verification and working
with partners who are committed to driving improvements
in management systems, our ambition is to make longlasting change in the palm oil sector. We have radically
reduced the number of mills we source from, implemented
bi-weekly supply chain satellite monitoring and awarded
longer-term contracts to suppliers who commit to our
environmental, social and ethical expectations. In addition,
Mars is driving sustainable palm oil production through
two major initiatives that we support:

1

2

Earthworm Foundation’s Areas for Priority
Transformation Program (Aceh, Indonesia):
By 2024, this initiative has supported three district
governments in adopting Sustainable Palm Oil
Regional Action Plans, trained 1,273 farmers in
Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) and protected
over 36,000 hectares of forest through village
regulations and NDPE (No Deforestation, No Peat,
No Exploitation) commitments.
Livelihoods Fund for Family Farmers (L3F):
Launched in 2021, this 10-year project aims to
support 2,500 smallholder farmers in North
Sumatra through agroforestry, using climatesmart agriculture and biodiversity conservation.
By 2024, 932 farmers have received RSPO
certification, 2,031 hectares have transitioned to
climate-smart agriculture practices and 8,000
hectares of forest have been protected by
community-led conservation efforts.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Cocoa

Please see note in the Appendix.

19

Eliminating Deforestation and Forest Degradation

Partnering with Indigenous Communities in Canada
Mars remains committed to doing our part to stop
deforestation and forest degradation in our pulp and
paper supply chain. We support programming that
works with stakeholders from local governments,
civil society organizations and communities whose
livelihoods depend on forest landscapes. These
programs are led by credible expert organizations
(such as the Mars partnership with Earthworm
Foundation) that tackle sustainable forestry issues in
these high-risk geographical locations.
Since 2019, Mars has partnered with Earthworm
Foundation, 3M, Nestlé and the Tsay Keh Dene Nation
(TKDN) in British Columbia, Canada, to protect intact
forest landscapes and High Conservation Value forests
by supporting Indigenous stewardship and promoting
implementation of Free, Prior and Informed Consent.
The TKDN’s 3,217,307-hectare core territory is home to

intact forest landscapes, critical caribou habitat and the
ecologically and culturally important 110,535-hectare
Wədzih Yinè’ (Caribou Song) Indigenous Protected
and Conserved Area in the Ingenika and Mesilinka
watersheds. It also overlaps with the Mackenzie timber
supply area where the forest industry operates.
This partnership helps amplify TKDN’s vision for
sustainable landscape management by funding
baseline ecological research and the development of
community-led management and monitoring plans
to identify and protect conservation areas. Ongoing
engagement with forestry companies and suppliers is
taking place to help ensure the Nation’s expectations
for sustainable forest management within their territory
are respected. Degradation in the territory has been
monitored annually using Starling since 2020.

Soy
Scaling Climate-Smart Agriculture in Brazil
In 2023, in support of our commitment to stop
deforestation and conversion in Mars supply chains in Latin
America, we launched the Next Generation Soil (Solo das
Próximas Gerações) project in Mato Grosso, focusing on
climate-smart agriculture to support soy farmers linked
to our supply chain to reduce the environmental impact
in their production. This initiative is a collaboration with
Amaggi, a leading soy supplier, and Produzindo Certo,
an agro-sustainable consulting firm. Currently, the training
is in a pilot phase, involving three farms, covering 10,000
hectares, that are committed to our no-deforestation,
no-conversion policy.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Pulp and Paper

20

Water is a critical resource. As global water stress
intensifies, we are committed to supporting responsible
water stewardship by enhancing water efficiency, reducing
usage in our facilities and collaborating with farmers,
suppliers and stakeholders to drive collective action. Our
approach includes improving water management in highrisk regions where we operate and building resilience
in key supply chains. Our Water Stewardship strategy
is designed to address water stress where it matters
most – focusing on high-risk watersheds, improving
water efficiency in agriculture and manufacturing and
collaborating with stakeholders to drive systemic change.
We are working to reduce the gap to sustainable water
use across our supply chain, with a focus on crops like rice,
almonds, mint, wheat and corn in high-risk regions such
as the U.S., Spain,9 India and Pakistan. Our full value chain
goal to halve our gap to sustainable water usage levels by
2025 is ambitious, and while we continue to anticipate that
we will fall short of the 50% target we have been aiming
for, our context-based target is helping to shape our
forward-looking water stewardship programs to focus on
locations and activities where our usage is most impactful
and where water stress is greatest.

Improve operational water efficiency
We are implementing water-saving measures at our
manufacturing sites, particularly in water-stressed areas, to
reduce consumption and enhance wastewater treatment.

Engage in collective action for
systemic change
We are working with partners, including the Alliance for
Water Stewardship (AWS), the World Resources Institute
and the UN CEO Water Mandate’s Water Resilience
Coalition, to preserve the world’s freshwater resources
through collective action in water-stressed basins and by
setting ambitious, measurable targets.
Since 2015, we have achieved a 36% reduction in the gap
to sustainable water use in our value chain, primarily
through efficiency improvements and geographic sourcing
choices in our rice and mint supply chains. We recognize
the complexity of addressing water stress and continue
refining our approach to maximize impact where it is most
needed.

Water and Operations
Mars is actively working to improve water efficiency
within our facilities by optimizing processes, investing
in water-saving technologies and reducing overall
water consumption. Across our supply chain, we
assess water risks and take risk-based action to
mitigate impacts in water-scarce regions. These efforts
contribute to our broader sustainability goals and
align with global water conservation standards.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Water
Stewardship

Note that the Spain drought affected rice sourcing in 2024 that afforded
a one off/one year only improvement of our gap to sustainable water use.
As we expect to source food rice again from Spain in 2025, we will see
reduced progress.
9

21

As part of Mars global operational water program, five
key manufacturing sites in Mexico have been identified
as priority locations for enhancing water stewardship.
Two of these sites – Querétaro and Guadalajara – have
recently completed implementation of good practices
aligned with the AWS Standard.
Mexico faces increasing water stress due to climate change,
urban expansion and agricultural demands. For Mars,
operating responsibly in such an environment means
working to actively manage water use, engage local
communities and drive measurable improvements in water
health and availability.

To address these challenges, Mars deployed a structured water stewardship strategy across our
Querétaro and Guadalajara sites, guided by the AWS framework. Key initiatives included:

Establishing a Dedicated Water
Management Committee:
A cross-functional team was
formed to oversee water-related
actions, support alignment
with AWS criteria and maintain
accountability across operations.

Implementing Monitoring
Platforms:
New digital platforms
were developed to record
and monitor daily water
consumption, enabling realtime visibility and data-driven
decision-making.

Supporting Local
Watershed Projects:
Both sites actively participated
in external projects aimed at
supporting local landowners
and improving regional
water sustainability, fostering
collaboration beyond facility
boundaries.

Upskilling Water Operators:
Continuous training programs
were launched for the operators
responsible for water treatment
systems, supporting technical
expertise and fostering a culture
of accountability and innovation.

Driving Water Efficiency
and Reuse:
Targeted investments were made
to enhance internal systems for
water conservation, including
upgrades that enable the reuse
of process water where feasible.

These efforts represent a significant
step toward embedding water
stewardship into core operations
and fostering external collaboration.
Mars is helping to build long-term
resilience in one of our most critical
manufacturing regions. The success at
Querétaro and Guadalajara provides
a blueprint for the remaining Mexico
sites under the operational water
program. As Mars continues to scale
our efforts, the lessons learned here
will inform future projects across
other high-risk geographies.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Advancing Water Stewardship in Mexico
– Mars Commitment in Action

22

Beyond our own operations, Mars collaborates
with industry partners, NGOs and local communities
to advance sustainable water management. Our
initiatives focus on reducing agricultural water
demand and supporting long-term water security
for farmers and ecosystems.

KIND Almond Acres Initiative

“
We are committed to making our
rice supply chain more resilient and
sustainable. We do this by working with
farmers to implement climate-smart
agriculture practices and diversifying our
sourcing strategies around the world. This
not only protects our planet by reducing
water usage and GHG emissions, but
ensures we are building a stronger and
more robust supply chain for the future.”

Dale Creaser
Global VP Supply, Food & Nutrition,
Mars, Incorporated

Almonds are essential to our delicious KIND® Snacks,
and we are scaling the KIND Almond Acres Initiative
to gain deeper insights into the impact of climatesmart agriculture on water efficiency in California’s
almond supply chain. In 2024, we nearly doubled
the acreage of our test pilot, expanding into a more
water-stressed region. These efforts contribute to our
broader commitment to sustainable almond sourcing
while addressing water scarcity challenges in California.
In addition, water data from year one of research
shows a 17% increase in water use efficiency with
subsurface irrigation.

Building strength and sustainability
in rice supply chain
Mars Food & Nutrition is strengthening the resilience of
our rice supply chain by diversifying sourcing regions
to mitigate water stress risks. Previously, a significant
portion of our rice for European markets came from Spain
which is a high water-stress country. When Spain faced
a large rice supply crisis, within six months, we rapidly
validated Uruguay as an additional, more environmentally
sustainable alternative. Uruguay, classified as a low waterstress country, uses crop rotation cycles and efficient water
management systems, resulting in less than half the CO₂e
emissions compared to Spanish rice production.10 As we
move forward, we continue to source rice from Uruguay
and Spain, considering sustainability as part of our overall
sourcing strategy. This strategic shift enhances supply chain
resilience while reducing environmental impact, reinforcing
Mars commitment to sustainable sourcing and long-term
water stewardship.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Collaborating for
Collective Water Action

This calculation includes emissions associated with transportation
from port of destination to port of arrival.
10

23

Coral Reef Restoration
Due to climate change, pollution and habitat
destruction, over 50% of the world’s reefs have been
lost in the past 50 years. The 2023/2024 El Niño event
exacerbated this crisis, triggering the fourth global coral
bleaching event recorded by NOAA, with rising ocean
temperatures putting reefs under immense stress.
Despite these challenges, Mars achieved key milestones
in 2024 to advance coral restoration. Reef Stars – our
innovative reef restoration structures – were deployed
in the Red Sea through new partnerships with KAUST
in Saudi Arabia. Our teams also co-led the Maldives’
“Big Build,” successfully planting 15,000 corals.

“
Coral reefs are the most biodiverse marine systems.
They pack 25% of all marine life into less than 0.1%
of the ocean floor.”

Professor David Smith
Chief Marine Scientist, Mars, Incorporated, and
Senior Director, Mars Sustainable Solutions

Globally, we completed over 20 new restoration
projects, supported the planting of more than 80,000
corals and contributed to scientific progress by funding
nine influential research publications. These efforts
reaffirm our commitment to restoring marine
ecosystems and helping maintain the long-term
resilience of coral reefs. Through these initiatives,
we aim to protect both terrestrial and aquatic
ecosystems, supporting the sustainability of vital
water resources for future generations.

Sustainable Fish Sourcing
As part of our dedication to responsible sourcing, Mars
has been working with the World Wildlife Fund for over
15 years to improve sustainability in the fish supply chain.
These nutritious ingredients are critical to our pet food
brands like SHEBA® and WHISKAS®; this collaboration
has helped inform our progress against the broader
environmental and social challenges associated with
unsustainable fishing practices.
In 2024, we launched the first Fisheries Improvement
Fund (FIF) project in Chile. This project endeavors to
transition the anchoveta and araucanian herring fishery
in Chile’s Central-Southern Region to more sustainable
practices. By piloting this initiative, we aim to create a
replicable model for improving fisheries and supporting
healthier marine ecosystems and local communities.

Sheba Hope Grows™ – Supporting
Coastal Communities
Building on decades of coral restoration expertise, Mars
launched Sheba Hope Grows™ in 2021, an initiative under
Mars Sustainable Solutions (MSS) designed to restore
reefs and protect oceans at scale. In addition to advancing
SHEBA® ’s broader commitment to using sustainably sourced
fish, the Sheba Hope Grows™ program, part of one of the
world’s largest coral reef restoration programs led by MSS,
is connecting local knowledge with scientific experts across
72 restoration sites in seven countries – from Indonesia to
Hawaii, the Maldives to Australia.
By integrating traditional knowledge with scientific expertise,
Sheba Hope Grows™ fosters long-term reef stewardship.
Mars reef restoration approach enables large-scale reef
restoration while local communities lead the conservation
efforts. Through training hubs, grassroots partnerships
and engagement with government agencies and ecotourism operators, Mars and Sheba Hope Grows™ are
equipping coastal stakeholders with the tools to restore
marine ecosystems.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Protecting Our
Ocean Ecosystems

The next phase of the program will expand training, strengthen
partnerships and mobilize more communities to restore and
protect vital coral reef ecosystems, supporting a sustainable
future for marine biodiversity and coastal livelihoods.
24

Addressing the sustainability of our
packaging is a complex challenge,
shaped by government regulation, local
infrastructure, consumer behavior and
industry collaboration. Innovation fuels
our approach as we invest in sustainable
materials and circular solutions to reduce
environmental impact. In 2024, while we
still have a long way to go, we made
substantial progress across key areas
by reducing plastic use, expanding
reuse and refill initiatives, increasing
recyclable packaging and advancing
industry collaborations. Regardless of our
redesign efforts, our products will only
be fully circular when the necessary waste
management, collection, sorting and
recycling infrastructure exists at scale, and
we are working actively with governments
and NGOs to drive this change.
11

Does not include product caps.

Key Packaging Progress in 2024
Reducing Plastic Use: We
eliminated over 350 tons of
plastic by optimizing packaging
formats, including WHISKAS®
pots transitioning to pouches,
stretch wraps in North America
and expanding paper-based
alternatives like compostable
M&M’S® bags in China.

Expanding Reuse Solutions:
Mars extended M&M’S®
Colorworks, a bulk dispensing
system that promotes reuse,
to Australia and tested refill
stations for Pet Nutrition in
France. At the U.K. Crufts
show, we showcased our
MiWa (minimum waste)
dispensing system, further
exploring reuse models.

Redesigning Packaging : In 2024, we
increased consumer-facing packaging
(excluding tertiary and transport
packages) designed to be reusable,
recyclable or compostable to 64.1%
despite previously highlighted
challenges with the design and
infrastructure changes needed to fully
realize our goals. As the infrastructure
is not always ready to sort and recycle
mono-material packs, we are targeted
about when and where we redesign
flexible formats to mono-material.
Progress in 2024 included new
launches in KIND®, DOVE®, SNICKERS®,
M&M’S® and pet food brands across
Europe and North America. In addition,
trials for retort pouches, our most
difficult format, in wet pet and human
food began in 2024, with intentions for
scaling further in 2025.

Increasing Recycled Content:
We incorporated over 14,000
metric tons of recycled material
which equates to 7% of our total
plastic portfolio, including 100%
rPET11 in Skittles®, STARBURST®
and M&M’S® jars in the U.S.
We launched 60% recycled
content for pet food packaging
on Schmackos™ pouches in
Australia.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Rethinking Packaging:
Advancing Circular Solutions

25

Industry Advocacy and Partnerships

Innovating for a Waste-Free Future
Award-Winning Sustainable Packaging
MasterFoods® launched new PET squeezy
sauce bottles, earning recognition at the 2024
Australasian Packaging Innovation & Design
Awards for its commitment to sustainable
packaging. MasterFoods® also trialed paperrecyclable single-serve tomato sauce packs
in Australia, which can be recycled through
curbside collection.

Engaging Consumers in
Compostable Packaging

Upcycling Pet Food Packaging
into Public Spaces

In an interactive initiative, Skittles® engaged
thousands of fans at a Seattle Seahawks game
through TRASH TALK, where attendees played
a game to receive compostable Skittles®
packs made with Danimer Scientific’s Nodax
polyhydroxyalkanoate technology and is
certified industrial compostable. The event
helped raise awareness about composting
while collecting real-world data on
compost breakdown.

Through the Pet Nutrition SWAP program, Mars
Thailand hosted an event in Chiang Mai, transforming
over 840,000 plastic pet food packages, more than
the combined total from the previous three years,
into eco-friendly public installations like benches and
playground structures. Now in its fourth year, SWAP
has successfully repurposed packaging into useful
community assets. The initiative promotes waste
management and environmental responsibility by
rewarding participants with discounts on Mars pet
food products, including PEDIGREE®, WHISKAS®,
CESAR® and SHEBA®, in exchange for empty and
clean pet food bags of any brand.

Reducing Waste in Veterinary Clinics
Recognizing the need for waste reduction
in veterinary care, we launched waste
assessments in Mars Veterinary Health clinics,
identifying key areas for intervention. In 2024,
we scaled a reusable shipping tote initiative to
nearly 1,000 clinics, avoiding 80 tons of waste.
Additionally, between 2023 and 2024, our
clinics collected nearly 18,000 pet food packs
for recycling, and through Project Animal Aid,
we diverted 3,000 pounds of medical waste
from landfills.
As we move forward, Mars remains committed
to driving packaging innovation, scaling circular
economy solutions and advocating for systemic
change in waste management.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Mars is actively engaged in shaping public policy and industry standards to advance circular
packaging solutions, and we are working with national governments to support and fund
the infrastructure that will be necessary for a circular economy. This includes engaging with
the U.N. Plastics Treaty to End Plastic Pollution, advocating for harmonized design guidelines
and Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) policies across 175 member countries, with
the final negotiations set for 2025. We are also proud to support the creation of a circular
economy where packaging never becomes waste as an active member of the Flexible Plastic
Fund (U.K.) and Circular Action Alliance (U.S.).

Mars, in collaboration with Delterra, Amcor and Procter & Gamble, has committed $6 million
over five years to transform waste management and recycling in Indonesia, Argentina and
Brazil. This initiative is designed to enhance local recycling infrastructure and help accelerate
the transition to circular packaging solutions globally. It aims to provide waste management
access to 10 million people, create job opportunities – particularly for marginalized waste
workers – and foster community engagement through education programs. In cities like
Olavarría and Buenos Aires, waste collection programs have improved livelihoods and increased
recycling participation, demonstrating scalable solutions for circular economies. By capturing
and repurposing recyclable materials, the program decreases reliance on virgin plastics and
minimizes environmental footprints. With its scalable model, the partnership not only helps to
address local waste challenges but also serves as a blueprint for global sustainability efforts.

26

As climate change and global conflict continue
to impact the livelihoods of the world’s most
vulnerable communities, it’s more urgent
than ever to invest in programs that help
people not just survive but thrive. With our
products touching millions of lives, we want
to play our part to respect human rights
and help drive positive change around the
world. Our Thriving People approach is built
on this belief, focusing on three key areas:
advancing human rights across global supply
chains, improving livelihoods by increasing
incomes and unlocking opportunities
through women empowerment initiatives.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Thriving
People

27

“

While creating lasting change takes time, we remain committed to the journey, with key programs demonstrating
the power of partnership in driving systemic progress. Despite challenges, we are constantly reassessing our role and
influence. Our continued efforts to address forced and child labor, along with other key risks, within supply chains
reflect our commitment to learning and evolving, helping our actions support meaningful, long-term change.

Our business is built on empowering individuals
across our supply chains with a long-standing
goal of respecting human rights, increasing
incomes and unlocking opportunities. We
understand that ethical sourcing is not just
the right thing to do but a critical driver of
long-term business resilience. By investing in
human rights, we do our part to strengthen
supply chains, reduce volatility and mitigate
business risks. By fostering resilience, uplifting
communities and creating opportunities for
growth, we are laying the foundation for
sustainable business success.”

TARGET

Meaningfully improve the lives of
1 million people across our value
chain to enable them to thrive.

2024 PROGRESS

850K+

people’s lives were impacted
by the end of 2024 through
our efforts.

160K+

farmers reached by programs
designed to increase
farmer incomes.

115K+

women reached by programs
designed to enable them
to thrive.

Lindsey Yeung
Global VP, Thriving People, Mars, Incorporated

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

2024 Thriving People Highlights

28

When our Associates thrive, so does our business.
Our Responsible Workplace program is designed
to promote and respect the human rights of all our
Associates and workers at our sites across the globe.
The Mars Workplace Code of Conduct articulates our
social, environmental and ethical expectations for all
Associates within Mars operations and workplaces.
Aligned with international law and global frameworks,
it guides our commitment to creating a responsible
and ethical workplace.

Advancing Respect for
Human Rights
Many people around the world are living in poverty or
are vulnerable to exploitation. We believe that the global
economy – and global businesses like ours – can do more
to ensure work is a source of empowerment for individuals.
Our Human Rights Policy is rooted in our Five Principles:
Quality, Responsibility, Mutuality, Efficiency and Freedom.
The policy is further shaped by the United Nations Guiding
Principles on Business and Human Rights, the International
Bill of Human Rights and the International Labour
Organization’s 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles
and Rights at Work.
Our Next Generation Supplier Program represents our
enhanced approach to supporting sustainability among
our first-tier suppliers, including aligning suppliers with
our social, environmental and ethical expectations through
our Supplier Code of Conduct. In 2024, we launched five
new Supplier Advance programs – on-site improvement
initiatives supported by third-party experts aimed at
helping suppliers confront some of the most challenging
human rights risks.

Advancing human rights and
responsible recruitment in the
Thai fish supply chain
One focus of our work to advance human rights
continues to be the improvement of working
conditions within our Thai fish supply chain that
supports our Petcare business. Our Thai fish human
rights program focuses on risks such as responsible
recruitment, as well as health and safety concerns in
both factories and on vessels. The program does so
through two strategies:

•

Supporting third-party experts who work with
suppliers to tackle root causes and strengthen
human rights management systems, including
capacity-building in responsible recruitment.

•

Leading industry groups to standardize
responsible recruitment practices and drive
broader efforts to improve remediation and
amplify worker voices.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Our Associates

29

Climate change presents a major threat
to smallholder farmers as shifting seasons
and extreme weather disrupt their
livelihoods, food systems and economies.
We are focused on building resilience
within our supply chain, with the goal of
advancing living incomes for farmers at
the heart of our Thriving People strategy.

Farmer Income Lab drives change with LEAP
Mars partnered with Fairtrade and ECOOKIM as part of the
Mars Farmer Income Lab to create the Livelihood Ecosystem
Advancement Program (LEAP). This program aims to
increase the incomes of cocoa farming households in Côte
d’Ivoire. In 2024, LEAP expanded its innovative agripreneur
model, supporting farmers and young adults launching
small businesses that provide coaching and input to peers,
while also establishing a $2 million revolving facility funded
by Mars and managed by FairCapital, providing accessible
finance to cooperatives and individual producers. The
program also prioritized partnerships aimed at securing new
opportunities for cocoa farmers in complementary sectors.

LEAP has set a goal of helping at least 30% of participating
farmers reach a living income by 2027. With a focus on
empowering women and young adults, LEAP has helped
women’s Village Savings and Loan Association (VSLA)
groups access business loans and provide capital to
agripreneur groups to launch businesses that deliver
vital services to their farming peers.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Increasing
Income for
Smallholder
Farmers

30

Since its launch in 2017, the Shubh Mint program has
positively impacted 24,000 farming families, boosting mint
incomes, reducing water usage and reaching thousands of
women in almost 400 self-help groups. An analysis in 2024
found that farmers who participated in the program have
earned a greater average annual income that is nearly double
compared to farmers not participating in the program in the
same area. Women involved in self-help groups have saved
over $880,000 collectively, distributed 21,000 loans and
more than 1,000 women have used these loans to start their
own businesses and contribute to their household income.
Looking ahead to 2025, we aim to expand the program by
implementing a full-farm approach, increasing yields across
crops beyond mint, and further empowering women. We
will also work with the private sector, government and
philanthropic partners to help even more farming families
build resilience and achieve a decent standard of living.

“
When my husband passed away, the
thought of running the shop on my own
was terrifying, but I knew I had to do
something to support my children and
in-laws. The women in the Saraswati
self-help group were my pillars of
support. I took a loan from the group,
stocked the shop with essential items
and started managing it myself. The
Saraswati self-help group lifted my
spirits when I had none.”
Kamalesh Kumari
Saraswati self-help group member

Advancing agroforestry and
empowering farmers
In 2024, Mars continued its efforts through the
Advancing Cocoa Agroforestry Towards Income Value
and Environmental (ACTIVE) program, launched in
partnership with USAID and Institute for Development
Impact in 2022. The program aims to increase the
income of 9,000 farmers by 15% over four years and
reduce the number of farmers below the living income
benchmark by 20%. In 2024, ACTIVE reached over
5,600 farmers, with a key focus on assessing Learning
Sites to refine agroforestry training in its second
year, helping bolster farmers’ resilience in the face of
environmental changes. The program also emphasizes
crop diversity, starting with five non-cocoa crops, and
is planning to introduce even more. At the same time,
we’re gathering data to help farmers access quality
seeds and efficiently market their non-cocoa harvests.
In parallel, our partnership with the Livelihoods Fund
for Family Farming (L3F) continues to support many
farmers across cocoa, coconut, vanilla and shea, with
women making up more than 60% of those benefiting.
Through these initiatives, we’re working to empower
the farmers who participate in these programs and
strengthen their livelihoods, while also enhancing the
sustainability of their agricultural practices.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Improving livelihoods in our mint
supply chain

31

At Mars, we believe that in the world we want tomorrow,
society is inclusive.
Our Associate Resource Groups (ARGs) are open to all
and provide opportunities for support, communication
and networking. We have five Global ARGs, which were
designed to guide and support our growing 100+
chapters so we can drive better collaboration, inspire each
other and maximize impact both globally and locally.

Sustainable Rice Farming with
Climate-Smart Practices

Empowering communities across
our supply chain
Launched in 2015, Women for Change was created
in collaboration with CARE International to empower
women in cocoa-growing communities in Cote d’Ivoire
and Ghana and support their professional and economic
growth using the VSLA model. This model, originally
implemented in Côte d’Ivoire, has proven to be effective
in promoting savings and providing access to small loans.
Since 2020, Mars has committed to invest an additional
$10 million into the program in West Africa. By the end
of 2024, the program has reached over 101,000 VSLA
members, more than 75% of whom are women, with a
total of $20 million-plus in savings and credits and $13
million in loans given to members.

Looking ahead to 2025, we’re sharpening our focus on
driving greater impact across our value chain. We plan
to adopt a more data-driven approach to identify and
address human rights risks, track progress towards living
incomes for smallholder farmers and find opportunities
to create additional meaningful change in our origin
communities. We are using a data-driven approach to
help increase the impact of this program.

Mars Food & Nutrition’s Sustainable Aromatic
Rice Initiative (SARI) in Thailand highlights that
sustainability and income growth can go hand in
hand. Reaching 1,445 farmers across Roi Et and Central
Plain, 66% of whom are women, the program has
increased rice production by 43% in Roi Et and 10% in
Central Plain, while cutting water use by 56% and 41%,
respectively. SARI supports farmers in maintaining
high yields and improving their livelihoods, while also
reducing water consumption and emissions. We are
fostering a sustainable future for rice farming, with the
goal of supporting a more resilient supply chain and
lifting farmers’ incomes while protecting the planet.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Unlocking
opportunities
for all

32

We’re dedicated to supporting our Associates’
and consumers’ wellbeing by providing
a wide variety of trusted products and
services, and in turn enabling people and
their pets to live healthier, happier lives.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Nourishing
Wellbeing

33

TARGET

Starting in 2021, deliver 5.5
billion healthy meals per year by
2025, including 4 billion servings
of vegetables, a 30% increase
in fiber servings and a 5%
reduction of sodium.

Delivering on our Mars Marketing
Code commitments at 95% for
marketing content and 97% for
marketing placement.

“

2024 PROGRESS

3.5B

healthy meals.

372M

servings of vegetables.

309M

servings of fiber.

5%

reduction of sodium
(compared to a 2019 baseline).

99.4%

media content compliance.

99.7%

compliance with media
placement standards.

We are committed to nourishing wellbeing
by delivering products and services that are
trusted and enjoyed, and in turn enabling
people and their pets to live healthier, happier
lives. We provide high-quality and transparent
information across our entire food portfolio to
enable consumers to make informed choices for
themselves, their family and their pets."

Abigail Stevenson
Chief Science Officer, Mars, Incorporated

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

2024 Nourishing Wellbeing Highlights

34

Mars Food & Nutrition is on a mission to make food that helps
people thrive by providing products that are tasty, accessible
and healthy. In 2024, we proudly delivered 3.5 billion healthy
meals, including 309 million servings of fiber and 372 million
servings of vegetables, all while reducing sodium by 5%
(compared to a 2019 baseline). Our innovative products, like
nutrient-packed ready meals, make it easier for consumers to
enjoy nutritious, flavorful food.

Foodbank Collaborative Supply Program
Mars Food & Nutrition Australia is a proud partner of
Foodbank, and through their Collaborative Supply
Program, provides a dedicated, regular supply of products
from brands like DOLMIO® to support the organization’s
food relief efforts. In 2024, we amplified our support
by raising awareness of Foodbank’s impactful work to
reduce barriers to food access through the DOLMIO®
brand, incorporating the partnership into packaging,
communications and activations.

Greenville community engagement
& the Washington County Food
Access Fund

Mars Food & Nutrition Europe
continues to support those in crisis
through meaningful partnerships

In 2024, the Mars Greenville, U.S. site, in partnership
with the Mississippi Food Network, hosted seven
Mobile Pantry Program events, providing thousands
of healthy meals to local residents. Since 2021, this
partnership has made a significant contribution to the
community. To further support healthy eating, our
Greenville FoodCorps Initiative marked World Food
Day 2024 with cooking demonstrations using Ben’s
Original™ products, educating students on healthy
eating habits through FoodCorps, a national non-profit
focused on teaching elementary students how to cook
and grow their own food.

In 2024, Mars Food & Nutrition celebrated the
fifth year of our partnership with Trussell’s Stand
Against Hunger campaign in the U.K. Through
collaboration with retailers, donating proceeds
from select packs of Ben’s Original™ and jars of
DOLMIO® sauce, as well as Associates’ fundraising
efforts, the campaign has raised more than
$130,000 to support foodbanks across the country.
In Germany, Mars Food & Nutrition continued
its commitment to Tafel Deutschland, providing
essential financial and food donations, in-store
promotions and Associate volunteering and
fundraising. This support resulted in thousands of
meals, over $40,000 in donations and Christmas
presents for those in need across Germany.

Additionally, the Washington County Food Access
Fund, created by Mars Food & Nutrition, Delta Group,
Molina Healthcare and the Community Foundation of
Washington County, was awarded funds in 2024 to
support sustainable food access initiatives benefiting
local food pantries and nonprofit organizations.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Enabling Health and Wellbeing

35

.

Ensuring Safe Food

We take seriously our commitment to market our brands
responsibly and ethically. We adhere to marketing
guidelines, including our Mars Global Marketing Code
for Human Food, which sets the standards for how we
communicate and engage with consumers. This Code
applies to all marketing communications for Mars-produced
and licensed human food products, covering all channels,
such as advertising, packaging and websites.

At Mars, food safety is a top priority. As a global food
company, we adopt a rigorous, science-based approach,
implementing practical strategies to protect both people
and pets, secure our business and make the most of
our planet’s resources. Working with others is key to
our efforts – we work with academic institutions, utilize
cutting-edge technology and enhance supply chain
resilience. Collectively through 2024, the Mars Global Food
Safety Center (GFSC), with Supplier Quality Assurance
teams, globally trained more than 600 suppliers and
10,000 participants – reaching an overall 76,000 learning
completions via the GFSC capability building gateway, an
online training portal.

A key principle of our Code is our commitment to refrain
from marketing directly to children under the age of
13, based on scientific research showing that young
children may not fully understand the persuasive nature
of advertising. Instead, we focus on empowering parents
and guardians with the information they need to make
informed decisions about their children’s diets.
To share our progress transparently, we publish an annual
Mars Marketing Code Governance Report, supported by
third-party audited data. Our latest results highlight our
compliance performance, with 99.4% adherence to media
content standards and 99.7% compliance with media
placement standards. These results surpass our targets of
95% and 97%, respectively, and reflect a continuation of the
previous year’s strong performance. Our findings indicate
the effectiveness of our marketing governance practices
and our commitment to responsible marketing.

Elevating food safety
through collaboration
Prioritizing food safety not only protects consumers
and promotes the efficient use of natural resources
but also supports sustainability by reducing
food waste and lowering carbon emissions. Our
partnership with the UN Food and Agriculture
Organization, which began nearly a decade ago and
was extended in 2024, underscores our commitment
to addressing emerging food safety threats and
improving mycotoxin management.
Additionally, our ongoing partnership with the
UN World Food Programme (WFP) helps enhance
global supply chain resilience. In 2024, we took
this partnership further by upskilling WFP’s food
safety team through a design thinking workshop,
equipping them to ensure that safe, nutritious
food reaches those who need it most. Through
these efforts, Mars is advancing food safety as a
cornerstone of sustainability and global well-being.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Responsible Marketing

36

“

State of Pet Homelessness Project

Dog and cat homelessness is a
hugely complex issue. This new
data on the challenge of pet
homelessness will help animal
welfare organizations, policymakers,
pet professionals, academics and
researchers to better understand
the scale and factors influencing the
issue, which can in turn support the
most impactful interventions.”

Around the world, millions of cats and dogs are living on
the street without appropriate levels of care and support
or in shelters. Research findings released in January 2024
as part of our State of Pet Homelessness Project compiled
across 20 countries show that, for every two pets with
a home, one is without – with an estimated 362 million
homeless cats and dogs.
The State of Pet Homelessness Project is a global data
initiative providing insights into issues which may impact
pet homelessness in different countries, and aims to
drive more informed and targeted action to help reduce
homelessness and ensure pets get the care they need.
Alongside the launch, Mars made a $500,000 donation to
fund projects in India, South Africa and Mexico to make
interventions informed by the data.

Jeffrey Flocken
Chief International Officer, Humane World
for Animals

First ever Global Adoption Weekend
The global Mars Pet Adoption Weekend was
launched to shine a light on the many pets around
the world who are looking for their forever home.
The Mars Pet Adoption Weekend took place in
12 countries: Brazil, Canada, China, France, India,
Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Thailand, the Philippines,
the United Kingdom and the United States, and
supported pet adoption via financial contributions
to shelters, adoption events, volunteer activities
and other awareness-raising events. Through this
event, more than 850 pets in the United States
alone found new homes.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Advancing Pet Welfare

37

In 2024, Royal Canin released its neonatal and
pediatric care guide for cats and dogs - a significant
step in advancing young pet health care and
addressing an unmet need in veterinary training.
This guide gathers and articulates the most upto-date scientific and observational knowledge
to support all veterinary professionals involved
in the early life of cats and dogs. Thanks to the
contribution of world-renowned experts it covers
essential topics, from maternal preparedness at
the end of gestation to the neonatal and pediatric
periods. It explores special and pathological
conditions in puppies and kittens and ways to
prevent or manage them to support a healthy
start to life.
®

Pets and wellbeing for older adults
In 2024, we published new studies that highlight the
profound impact pets can have on human wellbeing.
Through our ongoing research into Human-Animal
Interaction, we are uncovering new ways pets contribute to
wellbeing, strengthening the case for the essential role pets
play in creating healthier communities.
New research supported by Mars and the Waltham Petcare
Science Institute highlighted the mental and physical health
benefits of the human-animal bond for older adults. Two
studies revealed that therapy dogs can significantly reduce
feelings of loneliness during hospital stays, providing a
unique and beneficial form of companionship. Additionally,
emotional bonds with pets, such as dogs and cats, may
help slow cognitive and physical decline, with dog owners
experiencing better attention retention and cat owners
reporting improved physical wellness. These findings
underscore the potential of pet ownership and interactions
in promoting mental health and wellbeing for an aging
global population.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Empowering veterinarians in
advancing neonatal pet care

38

“
As a private, family-owned business
operating for over a century, Mars maintains
a broad view on what success as a business
means – that encompasses ensuring
strong financial performance, delivering
quality growth, having a positive societal
impact and being a trusted partner.
Strong corporate governance is a cornerstone
of our success. It ensures accountability and
integrity in all our operations, which are
vital for building trust with our Associates,
customers and the communities we serve.”

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Governance

Stefanie Straub
Vice President, General Counsel & Corporate Secretary,
Mars, Incorporated

39

Integration of
the Mars Five
Principles
We view governance not as a checklist but as
a generational responsibility and take a longterm view in seeking to make an impact through
our sustainability efforts and investments.
Our approach is grounded in forward-looking
stewardship that seeks impact over generations,
ensuring our sustainability strategy remains
resilient and future focused.
Governance at Mars is deeply rooted in our Five
Principles – Quality, Responsibility, Mutuality,
Efficiency and Freedom. These principles serve
as the foundation of our business and our
governance model and reflect our commitment
to leading with ethics and integrity to create the
world we want for tomorrow.

Governance Structure & Leadership Oversight
Overall Corporate Governance

Corporate Governance Structure

Our approach to governance is anchored in the belief
that engaged leadership and sound oversight are critical
to achieving sustainable business outcomes.

Our multilayered governance system, which includes
cross-functional teams of senior leaders across each of our
Segments who monitor results, activities and investments,
helps ensure our plans turn into performance.

Our governance approach aims to address material risks
and opportunities. Through a structured enterprise risk
management (ERM) framework, a cross-functional team
develops and maintains a risk register which identifies
material risks (including sustainability-related risks) and
assesses their probability, impact and proximity. Our risk
management philosophy informs decision-making at all
levels of the company.

•

Our Board of Directors are informed annually of
our plans and performance, and the Board of
Directors and its Committees provide oversight over
our Sustainable in a Generation Plan, including
sustainability-related risks.

•

Our Mars Leadership Team is responsible for the
overall direction of our sustainability work as well
as allocating the resources and investments needed
to deliver it.

•

Our Sustainability Steering Group, composed of
senior sustainability VPs, is responsible for defining
what it means to be a truly sustainable business, and
making recommendations to the Mars Leadership
Team and Board on scope and ambition.

•

Our Methodology Restatement Group, with
representation from Finance, Science and
Sustainability, governs the ongoing upgrades and
improvements to our sustainability accounting.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

GOVERNANCE

40

The Global Ethics & Compliance (E&C) team, led by
the Chief Compliance Officer (CCO), oversees our
enterprise-wide commitment to upholding ethical
business practices. Among other key responsibilities,
the E&C team promotes and enforces the Mars
Ethics & Compliance Guide, our workplace guide to
winning with integrity, through training, reporting,
investigations and other engagements. The team
reports bi-annually to the Audit Committee of the
Board on compliance activities, risks, trends and
program effectiveness.
Key responsibilities include: Promote and enforce
the Mars Ethics & Compliance Guide, our workplace
guide to winning with integrity, through training,
awareness and an annual attestation, among other
engagements. Implement and oversee policies
on antitrust, anti-bribery/corruption, data privacy,
conflicts of interest and other compliance topics.

Ethical Business Conduct
& Sustainability
Commitment to Ethical Business Practices
Ethical conduct is central to our identity at Mars. We adhere
strictly to our Global Anti-Corruption Policy, ensuring that
integrity is embedded in every aspect of our business.
Anti-corruption is not only a legal obligation – it is a
sustainability imperative that underpins our commitment
to responsible, ethical sourcing and building and
maintaining stakeholder trust.
We prohibit corruption in any form, including giving,
accepting or authorizing bribes. We expect all of our
business partners, such as our distributors, customs
brokers and other suppliers, to maintain the same
standards as we do when acting on our behalf and detail
these expectations in our Anticorruption, International
Trade, and Human Rights Expectations for Business
Partners as well as our Supplier Code of Conduct.
We are aligned with global sustainability frameworks,
including the UN Guiding Principles on Business
and Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines for
Multinational Enterprises.
Stakeholder Engagement & Collaboration
Sustainable governance is built through collaboration.
We actively listen to and partner with a wide range of
stakeholders across the value chain. This includes NGOs,
governments, regulators, scientific experts, academic
institutions, industry coalitions, certification bodies
and supplier networks.

Our suppliers are a key stakeholder for achieving our
sustainability goals. The Mars Supplier Code of Conduct
articulates our social, environmental and ethical expectations
for suppliers. It contains globally aligned standards and is
rooted in international law. In sharing our Code of Conduct
with our first-tier suppliers we make our expectations clear,
aligning our suppliers with our standards and ensuring that
we work with partners that share our beliefs. Our public
policy engagements are guided by the Mars Principles for
Public Policy Engagement, which promote transparency,
fairness and alignment with our sustainability goals.
Whistleblower Protections & Reporting Mechanisms
Mars is focused on fostering a speak-up culture where
all Associates feel empowered to ask questions and raise
issues safely, confidentially and without fear of retaliation.
We offer a variety of reporting channels, including options
allowing for anonymous reporting and vigorously enforce
our Non-Retaliation Policy.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Ethics and
Compliance

41

Data Security & Privacy Protection
Mars is committed to ensuring that the personal
data that its stakeholders entrust to Mars is managed
with transparency and security, in line with both
regulatory requirements and Mars internal standards.
In parallel, we are committed to responsible artificial
intelligence and digital ethics, embedding safeguards
that ensure our use of technology aligns with human
rights and our core values.

Reporting,
Traceability
& Performance
Metrics
Mars employs a robust sustainability reporting
framework grounded in accountability, transparency
and traceability. Our governance-related disclosures
are overseen by dedicated cross-functional
committees that ensure information is accurate,
relevant and aligned with evolving standards.
Integration of sustainability into enterprise-level
decision-making enables us to translate metrics into
action and demonstrate progress in a transparent
and consistent manner.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Human Rights and Sustainability Commitments
Mars is committed to respecting human rights
throughout our operations and supply chain.
Our Human Rights Policy lays out our vision for
respecting rights across our value chain, in
accordance with international guidelines. Our
Workplace Code of Conduct supports ethical labor
and environmental practices in our facilities, while
the Supplier Code of Conduct extends these
expectations to our partners. A Human Rights
Saliency Assessment is conducted periodically to
identify and prioritize the most severe risks to
people and direct resources toward the most critical
human rights challenges in our value chain.

42

The Sustainable in a Generation Plan is a living document
Mars updates as the world changes, our business
evolves, legal requirements change and science
advances. Over the years, we have added near and
longer-term GHG targets approved by the ScienceBased Targets initiative. Our initial plan was informed
by a 2017 materiality assessment.
The actions described in this report are implemented with
a risk-based approach to prioritization and deployment.
The applicability of certain programs may vary based on
the differences between our consumer goods businesses and our services businesses, which can have different
risk profiles and sustainability impacts. Certain acquired
businesses are also at different stages of program rollout
regarding the elements discussed herein.
Sustainability goals and targets outlined in this report
reflect our expectations based on the data, analysis,
judgments, legal requirements and assumptions available
at the time that they were set. As data collection improves,
accepted data measurement methodologies evolve,
scientific understanding advances, legal requirements
change and underlying assumptions change, our goals and
targets may change and our baseline years may be reset.

The information in this report may be approximate.
Due to rounding, figures presented in this report may not
add up precisely to the totals provided and percentages
may not reflect absolute figures. Unless otherwise noted,
data in this report is not externally verified or assured
and may be restated in the future if more accurate data
becomes available.
Mars may make non-substantive and typographical revisions to this report as needed without explicit reference to
those changes beyond updating the report's version number. To the extent substantive revisions are made, we will
make explicit notation of those changes between versions.
Please direct any questions or feedback to
sustainability.reporting@effem.com.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

ABOUT THIS REPORT

Further, the methodologies we have used to set
our respective targets are at varying levels of maturity,
and some or all of these methodologies may evolve over
time. In some cases, we may determine to adjust our
commitments or goals or establish new ones, to reflect
changes in our business, operations, legal obligations
or plans. Further, we are subject to changing economic,
competitive, regulatory, technological and other risks that
may impact our future results in ways we cannot predict;
these risks and other considerations, including but not
limited to future business acquisitions, may impact the
company’s ability to meet our current targets. The
statements and information are not guarantees of future
performance, nor promises that our goals will be met.
Except where otherwise noted, statements and
information exclude acquisitions after December 31,
2024 as well as some other new acquisitions and comanufacturing. Exclusions or limitations noted in this
report may be supplemented.

For more information on our governance policies, please
review our Policies and Practices webpage.

43

Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Performance
Scope 1 + 2

Restated Base Year (2015)

Restated 2023

2024

Unit

Scope 1

837,931

748,190

729,910

tCO2e

Scope 2 (Market-based)

870,002

409,917

405,358

tCO2e

24,612,656

20,575,246

19,825,429

tCO2e

Scope 3 category 2: Capital goods

181,203

195,754

205,181

tCO2e

Scope 3 category 3: Fuel-and-energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 or 2)

451,442

432,086

439,975

tCO2e

Scope 3 category 4: Upstream transportation and distribution

1,173,617

1,200,811

1,217,488

tCO2e

Scope 3 category 5: Waste generated in operations

53,024

57,261

59,132

tCO2e

Scope 3 category 6: Business travel

58,462

84,398

103,284

tCO2e

Scope 3 category 7: Employee commuting

191,167

176,926

183,735

tCO2e

Scope 3

Scope 3 category 1: Purchased goods and services

Scope 3 category 8: Upstream leased assets
Scope 3 category 9: Downstream transportation and distribution

†Accounting for carbon removals
Removals in our value chain are included in Mars
accounting for the first time in 2024. This is in alignment
with the direction of both the SBTi FLAG targets and the
GHG Protocol draft Land Sector and Removals Standard
(LSRS), however, we strongly feel that the ongoing delays
of the final publication of the LSRS should not be allowed
to delay corporate action in agricultural supply chains.
Climate-smart agriculture projects that we support are
implementing practices that increase soil carbon stocks
on farms in our supply sheds. To account for this, we
have created an internal standard for inventory-based
carbon removals accounting and implemented ongoing
monitoring combined with a conservative 50% buffer pool
approach to ensure permanence. After withholdings for
the buffer pool, the reported removals are 41,833 tons of
tCO2e. We will continue to evolve our approach and our
reporting as further guidance becomes available.

tCO2e
4,936,072

4,645,688

4,723,733

Scope 3 category 10: Processing of sold products
Scope 3 category 11: Use of sold products

tCO2e
tCO2e

43,250

26,809

27,329

tCO2e

Scope 3 category 12: End of life treatment of sold products

tCO2e

Scope 3 category 13: Downstream leased assets

tCO2e

Scope 3 category 14: Franchises

tCO2e

Scope 3 category 15: Investments

tCO2e

Total Scope 3 emissions

31,700,893

27,394,981

Scope 3 removals†

26,827,118

tCO2e

41,833

tCO2e

Total Scope 3 emissions and removals

31,700,893

27,394,981

26,785,285

tCO2e

Total GHGs (Scopes 1, 2 and 3 with removals)

33,408,825

28,553,087

27,920,552

tCO2e

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Appendix

44

Metric

Unit

Reference page number in report

Notes/Explanations

Reduction of total GHG emissions across value chain
compared to 2015

16.4%

3, 9, 11, 14

This includes a small (<0.15%) contribution from soil carbon removals
through climate-smart agriculture projects.
As stated in our Water Stewardship Position Statement, we are prioritizing
our water stewardship efforts on crops which we, or our suppliers, source
at large volumes from stressed watersheds. This excludes our veterinary
health business.

Healthy Planet

Reduction in the gap to sustainable water use in our
value chain compared to 2015

36%

9, 11, 21

Hold land use flat (compared to 2015)

0

9, 11, 18

Our Operations

Procurement of renewable electricity in 2024

58%

4, 11, 15

This figure includes data from all manufacturing sites across our Food,
Petcare and Snacking businesses (with the exception of Hotel Chocolat) as
well as our Veterinary Health sites in U.K., and U.S, based on data we were
able to verify as of May 2025.

Our Value Chain
Global beef volume at low risk of deforestation and
conversion in 2024

99%

Considers the total amount of direct purchases of beef ingredients in
Mars Petcare, which accounts for the material portion (98%) of the total
beef supply to Mars. Excludes some new mergers and acquisitions and
co-manufacturing.

Beef volume from Latin America at low risk of
deforestation and conversion in 2024

97%

Considers the total amount of direct purchases of beef ingredients in Mars
Petcare from Latin America. Excludes some new mergers and acquisitions
and co-manufacturing.

85%

Mars relies on its suppliers and their third-party auditors to certify or
verify the volume of deforestation and conversion free cocoa purchased
by or for Mars in a year. Mars considers cocoa to be "deforestation and
conversion free" if the cocoa has been produced on land which has not
been subjected to deforestation or the conversion of natural ecosystem
(as defined by the Accountability Framework Initiative) after a specified
cut-off date. Cocoa ingredients in Mars products are made from cocoa
which has been purchased, processed, shipped or stored by supplier
using the “mass balance” method.* Excludes some new mergers and
acquisitions and co-manufacturing.

Cocoa volume which is deforestation
and conversion free in 2024

Letter from our
the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Performance
Data

45

Unit

Reference page number in report

Notes/Explanations

Our Value Chain (continued)

Palm and palm kernel oil volume deforestationfree in 2024

Pulp and paper-based packaging from certified,
verified, or recycled sources in 2024

Global soy volume at low risk of deforestation
and conversion in 2024

Soy volume from Latin America at low risk of
deforestation and conversion in 2024

*Definition of “Mass Balance”

100%

Includes palm and palm kernel oil that Mars buys directly, excluding
derivatives, certain materials with trace amounts of palm, and some
mergers and acquisitions and co-manufacturing, as discussed in our Palm
Positive Plan. Some palm oil used in certain markets is purchased under
the mass balance supply chain model.* Mass balance volumes are traced
to the mill and we leverage our service providers Earthworm Foundation
and Earthqualizer to map, monitor and manage any deforestation alerts
that are associated with plantations linked to these mills.

94%

Based on certification and recycled content. Considers all direct purchases
of primary, secondary, and tertiary fiber-based packaging. Some pulp and
paper is purchased under a “mass balance” supply chain model.* Excludes
some new mergers and acquisitions and co-manufacturing.

96%

Considers the total amount of direct purchases of soy products in
Mars Petcare, which accounts for the material portion (93%) of the
total soy supply to Mars. Some purchased soy is certified using
segregated or “mass balance” supply chain models.* Excludes some new
mergers and acquisitions and co-manufacturing.

77%

Considers the total amount of direct purchases of soy products in Mars
Petcare from Latin America. Some purchased soy is certified using
segregated or “mass balance” supply chain models.* Excludes some new
mergers and acquisitions and co-manufacturing.

See above
references

In certain markets, Mars may purchase and use ingredients (e.g., cocoa
butter; palm oil; etc.) in its products which a supplier has purchased,
processed, shipped or stored the ingredients, or the raw material used
to make ingredients (e.g., cocoa beans; fruit of palm trees; etc.), on a
“mass balance” basis. Suppliers who purchase, process, ship or store
ingredients, or the raw materials used to make ingredients, on a “mass
balance” basis frequently mix conventional, deforestation free and other
types of ingredients or their raw materials at one or more steps in their
supply chain. As a result, Mars cannot identify whether a specific product
has been made from conventional, deforestation free or another type
of ingredient or raw material or a mixture of two or more types of an
ingredient or raw material.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Performance
Data

Metric

Water Ecosystems (Coral Reef)
Corals planted

80,000+

46

Unit

Reference page number in report

Notes/Explanations

Transforming Packaging

Packaging in portfolio that is reusable, recyclable
or compostable in 2024

64.1%

9, 11, 25

7% or 14,000 mT

11, 25

Cumulative number of people reached through
programs designed to enable them to thrive

850,000+

4, 7, 28

Farmers reached by programs designed to
increase farmer incomes

160,000+

7, 9, 28

Women reached by programs designed to
enable them to thrive

115,000+

9, 28

Healthy meals delivered by Mars Food & Nutrition
in 2024

3,500,000,000

7, 9, 34, 35

Servings of vegetables provided in 2024

372,000,000

7, 34, 35

Sodium reduction across portfolio in 2024

5%

7, 34, 35

309,000,000

7, 34, 35

Media placement compliance

99.7%

9, 34, 36

Content compliance

99.4%

9, 34, 36

Recycled content in our portfolio in 2024
Thriving People

Nourishing Wellbeing
Providing Healthy Food

Servings of fiber in 2024
Responsible Marketing

By weight, excluding tertiary and transport packaging. Our
reportable data includes the consumer-packaged goods within
our Mars Snacking, Mars Petcare and Mars Food & Nutrition
Segments. The Mars Science and Diagnostics and the Mars
Vet Health businesses are not in scope. For data reported as of
Year End 2024, acquisitions not reported in 2023 such as Hotel
Chocolat, Kevins and Champion Petfoods are now included.

Letter from the CEO About Mars Healthy Planet Thriving People Nourishing Wellbeing Governance Appendix

Performance
Data

Metric

47

© 2025 Mars, Incorporated and
its Affiliates. All Rights Reserved.

